ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K or other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Form 10-K. See “Forward-looking Statements.”  

Uncertainties in global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the domestic and global financial markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. While there are indications that both the financial markets and the economy are recovering from the recent worldwide recession, a variety of factors raise concern over the course and strength of the recovery, including low interest rates, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, volatile equity market values, high unemployment, governmental budget deficits (including, in the U.S., at the federal, state and municipal level), contagion risk from possible default by other countries on sovereign debt, declining business and consumer confidence and the risk of increased inflation. These factors continue to have a significant effect on both the global economy and our business. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect certain portions of our business and our financial condition and results of 

operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events:  

 •    The amount and range of our market risk exposures have been increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so.  

 •    During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Asset and Wealth Management businesses.  

 •    Fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management business.  

 •    Our ability to continue to operate certain commingled investment funds at a net asset value of $1.00 per unit and to allow unrestricted cash redemptions by investors in those commingled funds (or by investors in other funds managed by us which are invested in those commingled investment funds) may be adversely affected by depressed mark-to-market prices of the underlying portfolio securities held by such funds, or by material defaults on such securities or by the limited sources of liquidity that are available to such funds; and we may be faced with claims from investors and exposed to financial loss as a result of our operation of such funds.  

 •    Heightened regulation of our industry will increase our costs and may limit our ability to pursue business opportunities that we would otherwise pursue.  

 •    The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure and to ascertain the fair value of securities held by us is subject to uncertainty in that it requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers and others to meet their obligations.  

 •    Our ability to access the public capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. 

16 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

 •    The value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities and pension and other post-retirement plan assets, may decrease.  

Concerns over market volatility continue.  

The capital and credit markets experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption during the financial crisis. While markets stabilized in 2010, further upheaval could produce downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under less volatile market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and we could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to continue, such as the recent conditions in the global financial markets and global economy. For a discussion of risk, see “Risk management” in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report.  

If markets experience further upheavals, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Reputational, Legal and Regulatory Risk—Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally.  

We are subject to reputational, legal and regulatory risk in the ordinary course of our business. These risks could include adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from events in the financial markets, our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, the purported actions of our employees, alleged financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well-known companies, increasing regulatory scrutiny of “know your customer”, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their 

effectiveness, and litigation that may arise from our failure or perceived failure to comply with policies and procedures. Any or all of these risks could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets, result in lawsuits, enforcement actions, damages, fines and penalties or have other adverse effects on us. Customers of our subsidiaries may make claims pertaining to the performance of fiduciary responsibilities, which may result in material financial liability and materially impair our reputation, if not resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary. Investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the Department of Justice and state attorneys general, and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on us. See ”Legal proceedings” in Note 25 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.  

We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision in non-U.S. jurisdictions.  

We operate in a highly regulated environment, and are subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. In light of the current conditions in the global financial markets and economy, the Obama Administration, Congress and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. New or modified regulations and related regulatory guidance, including under Basel III and the Dodd-Frank Act, may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry. The regulatory perspective, particularly that of the Federal Reserve Board, on regulatory capital requirements may affect our ability to make acquisitions, declare dividends or repurchase our common stock unless we can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of our regulators, that such actions would not adversely affect our regulatory capital position in the event of a severely stressed market environment. In addition, the implementation of certain of the regulations with regard to regulatory capital could disproportionately affect our regulatory capital position relative to that of our competitors. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and 

BNY Mellon 17  

Table of Contents 

interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. See “Supervision and Regulation” in this Form 10-K. Some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the United States. Such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. Among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be decided much more quickly than in the U.S., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. These factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess.  

We may experience further write-downs of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions; impairment of our instruments could harm our earnings.  

We maintain an investment securities portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. Our portfolio includes non-agency U.S. and non-U.S. residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and credit cards, the values of which are subject to market price volatility to the extent unhedged. If such investments suffer credit losses, as we experienced with some of our investments in 2009, we may recognize in earnings the credit losses as an other-than-temporary impairment. For information regarding the sensitivity of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, refer to the “Risk management—Market risk” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report.  

Recent legislative actions may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations.  

In July 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act. This new law broadly affects the financial services industry, particularly those entities 

considered to be “systemically important”, such as bank holding companies with assets of over $50 billion, including BNY Mellon, by establishing a framework for systemic risk oversight, creating a liquidation authority, mandating higher capital and liquidity requirements, requiring banks to pay increased fees to regulatory agencies and numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector.  

U.S. regulatory agencies – banking, securities and commodities – have begun to publish notices of proposed regulations required by Dodd-Frank during the past several months, and new bodies created by Dodd-Frank (including the FSOC and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection) are commencing operations. The related findings of various regulatory and commission studies, the interpretations issued as part of the rulemaking process and the final regulations that are issued with respect to various elements of the new law may cause changes that impact the profitability of our business activities and require that we change certain of our business practices and plans, including those relating to cross-selling our products and services. These changes could also expose us to additional costs (including increased legal and compliance costs) and require us to invest significant management attention and resources to make any necessary changes.  

Interest Rate Environment—Our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  

Our net interest revenue and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes and changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets over which we have no control. Our net interest revenue is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. We also earn net interest revenue on interest-free funds we hold.  

The global market crisis has triggered a series of cuts in interest rates. During fiscal 2010, the Federal Open Market Committee kept the target federal funds rate between 0% and 0.25%. The low interest rate environment has compressed our net interest spread and reduced our spread-based revenues. It has also resulted in our voluntarily waiving fees on certain money market mutual funds and related distribution fees in order to prevent our clients’ yields on such funds from becoming negative. Changes in interest 

18 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. A rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. Conversely, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. If we are unable to effectively manage our interest rate risk, changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Further volatility in interest rates could trigger one or more of the following additional effects:  

 •    changes in net interest revenue depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under “Asset/liability management” in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report;  

 •    an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates, including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure;  

 •    a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates;  

 •    increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions; and  

 •    decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value.  

A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the “Risk management” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations in the Annual Report.  

Deposit insurance premiums may continue to increase.  

During 2009 and 2010, due to a higher level of bank failures, the FDIC increased recurring deposit insurance premiums, imposed a special assessment on insured financial institutions, and required insured financial institutions to prepay three years of deposit premiums. Due to the continuing volume of bank failures, it is possible that a continued high level of funding will be required from insured financial institutions, such as BNY Mellon. 

Competition—We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

Many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. Other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. We also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. In addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services.  

Furthermore, pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

Recently enacted and proposed legislation and regulation may impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a cost-effective manner or at all, including legislation relating to restrictions on the type of activities in which financial institutions are permitted to engage. These or other similar proposals, which may not apply to all of our competitors, could adversely impact our ability to compete effectively. A decline in our competitive position could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

Dependence on fee-based business—We are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.  

Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking 

BNY Mellon 19  

Table of Contents 

institutions that earn most of their revenues from loans and other traditional interest-generating products and services. We have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management.  

Fees for many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues.  

Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. Significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.  

Our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.  

The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when 

there is more volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility.  

Our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. Decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide.  

The trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue.  

Our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform.  

We provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. Assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. If we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. A decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. A decline in the rate at which our clients 

20 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

outsource functions, such as their internal accounts payable activities, would also adversely affect our results of operations.  

Strategic acquisitions may pose integration risks.  

From time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. Each of these poses integration challenges, including successfully retaining clients and key employees of both businesses and capitalizing on certain revenue synergies. We cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated.  

The soundness of financial institutions and other counterparties could adversely affect us.  

Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have in the past led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions in the future. Many transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparties or clients. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.  

Any material reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.  

Our long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by the major rating agencies. These rating agencies regularly evaluate us and their ratings of our long-term debt are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not 

entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally.  

In addition, rating agencies employ different models and formulas to assess the financial strength of a rated company, and from time to time rating agencies have, in their discretion, altered these models. Changes to the models, general economic conditions, or other circumstances outside our control could impact a rating agency’s judgment of its rating and the rating it assigns us. In view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, we believe that the rating agencies may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, may increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, may request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the rating agency models for maintenance of certain ratings levels.  

The outcome of such a review may have adverse ratings consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. We cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which may adversely affect us.  

Capital Adequacy—We are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.  

Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. As discussed under “Supervision and Regulation – Capital Requirements” in this Form 10-K, the capital requirements applicable to us as a bank holding company as well as to our subsidiary banks are in the process of being substantially revised, in connection with Basel III and the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. If our company, our subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially and adversely affected. In light of recent market events, Dodd-Frank and Basel III, BNY Mellon and 

BNY Mellon 21  

Table of Contents 

 our subsidiary banks will be required to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, these regulations. Failure by BNY Mellon or one of our U.S. bank subsidiaries to maintain its status as “well-capitalized” and “well managed”, if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a FHC and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. See “Supervision and Regulation” in this Form 10-K and the “Liquidity and dividends” and “Capital – Capital adequacy” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and the “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” section in the MD&A section in the Annual Report.  

Access to Capital Markets—If our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected.  

Our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. We rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. Events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

Monetary and Other Governmental Policies—Our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies.  

The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve Board, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. Due to current market conditions, we anticipate that monetary, tax and other government policies will become more rigorous. Heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. The cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. Various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in Congress or relevant state legislatures. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations. See “Supervision and Regulation” in this Form 10-K.  

Operational Risk—We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  

We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the company, business interruption due to system failures or other events, or other risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, including legal risk. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively 

22 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. For a discussion of risk see “Risk management” in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report.  

Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.  

Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or are otherwise required to restate our financial statements, we could be required to implement expensive and time-consuming remedial measures and could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports.  

Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.  

We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For a discussion of risk, see “Risk 

management” in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report.  

Technology—We depend on our technology and intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected.  

We are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. Our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.  

Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market in a timely manner at a competitive price.  

Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments. We cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability.  

Furthermore, if a third party were to assert a claim of infringement or misappropriation of its proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party. 

BNY Mellon 23  

Table of Contents 

Global Operations—We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating globally.  

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to risks of loss from the outbreak of hostilities or acts of terrorism and various unfavorable political, economic, legal or other developments, including social or political instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization, confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, and changes in laws and regulations. Further, our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets. Various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or acts of terrorism. The possible effects of any of these conditions may adversely affect our business and increase volatility in global financial markets generally.  

Acts of Terrorism—Acts of terrorism and global conflicts may have a negative impact on our business.  

Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could have a significant impact on our business and operations. While we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, terror attacks, political unrest, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are unable to predict. 

New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.  

From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible.  

We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.  

Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract new employees, retain and motivate our existing employees, and continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of large financial institutions. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. Our ability to attract and retain key executives and/or other key employees may be hindered as a result of executive compensation limits and requirements set forth in regulations that may be issued under recently proposed and enacted legislation.  

Tax Laws and Regulations—Tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.  

In the course of our business, we receive inquiries from both U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities on the amount of taxes we owe, such as those matters discussed in Note 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. If we are not successful in defending these inquiries, we may be required to adjust the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions, all of which can require a greater provision for taxes or otherwise negatively affect earnings. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will 

24 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

negatively affect us or our business. In addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income.  

Accounting Principles—Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.  

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the International Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements such as the potential adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements. See “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” in the MD&A section in the Annual Report. These changes are difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an economic impact on our business.  

Credit Reserves—We could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate.  

We have credit exposure to residential mortgages, the financial, airline and automotive industries, monoline financial guaranty insurers and many other industries. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. Though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. We rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. In addition, current market developments may increase default and delinquency rates, which may impact our charge-offs. We cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. If reserves for credit losses are not sufficient, we would be required to record a larger credit loss reserve against current earnings. 

Holding Company—We are a holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.  

We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries – The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. – and our other subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our banks and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends and interest from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates.  

For example, as a result of charges related to the restructuring of our securities portfolio in the third quarter of 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. currently require regulatory consent prior to paying a dividend to us.  

Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. See “Supervision and Regulation – Dividend Restrictions” in this Form 10-K, the “Liquidity and Dividends” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.  

Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors (including, in the case of our banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. Consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of 

BNY Mellon 25  

Table of Contents 

our subsidiaries. A holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities.  

Limits on common stock dividends.  

Holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Any increase in BNY Mellon’s ongoing quarterly dividend would require consultation with the Federal Reserve Board. Any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  

Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders.  

Provisions of Delaware law and provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue additional series of preferred stock and such preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES