PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Description of Business  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (“BNY Mellon”), a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with $1.17 trillion in assets under management and $25.0 trillion in assets under custody and administration as of Dec. 31, 2010. We divide our businesses into seven segments: Asset Management; Wealth Management; Asset Servicing; Issuer Services; Clearing Services; Treasury Services and Other.  

For a further discussion of BNY Mellon’s products and services, see the “Overview” and “Review of businesses” sections in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) section in the Annual Report and Note 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. See “Available Information” on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

We were formed as a bank holding company and have our executive offices in New York. With its predecessors, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784.  

On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation (“Mellon Financial”) merged into BNY Mellon, with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity.  

Our two principal banks are:  

 •    The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state chartered bank, formerly named “The Bank of New York”, which houses our institutional businesses, including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services and the bank-advised business of Asset Management.  

 •    BNY Mellon, National Association (“BNY Mellon, N.A.”), a nationally-chartered bank, formerly named “Mellon Bank, N.A.”, which houses our Wealth Management business. 

Our U.S. bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law.  

We have two U.S. trust companies – The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. These companies house trust products and services across the U.S. Also concentrating on trust products and services is BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, a Delaware bank. Most asset management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon.  

Information on international operations is presented in the “Net interest revenue”, “International operations”, “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans – Loans by product”, and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans – International loans” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, Note 6 and Note 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and in “Risk Factors – Global Operations”, in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

Primary Subsidiaries  

Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon’s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2010.  

Discontinued Operations  

As discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, BNY Mellon reports results using the discontinued operations method of accounting. Note 4 is incorporated herein by reference. All information in this Form 10-K, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless otherwise noted.  

Supervision and Regulation  

BNY Mellon, including through its subsidiaries, engages in banking, investment advisory and other securities-related activities in the United States and 

4 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

approximately 35 other countries. We are subject to extensive regulation worldwide. Regulatory bodies around the world are generally charged with protecting the interests of customers, including depositors in banking entities and investors in mutual funds and other vehicles our subsidiaries may advise, and safeguarding the integrity of securities and other financial markets. They are not, however, generally charged with protecting the interests of our shareholders or creditors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. For additional discussion of recent and proposed regulatory initiatives that may impact our business, see “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” in the MD&A section of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

The events of the past few years have led to numerous new laws in the United States and internationally for financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act” or “Dodd-Frank”), which was enacted in July 2010, significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States, including through the creation of a new systemic risk oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”). The FSOC will coordinate the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”), the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and the FDIC) in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns. The Dodd-Frank Act directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the Federal Reserve Board as to supervisory requirements and heightened prudential standards applicable to large, interconnected bank holding companies and non-bank financial companies supervised by the Federal Reserve Board under Dodd-Frank, often referred to as “systemically important financial institutions”, including capital, leverage, liquidity and risk-management requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies. Although the criteria for treatment as a systemically important financial institution have not yet been determined, it is probable that they will apply to BNY Mellon. 

In addition to the framework for systemic risk oversight implemented through the FSOC, the Dodd-Frank Act broadly affects the financial services industry by creating a resolution authority, and through numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. As discussed further throughout this section, many aspects of Dodd-Frank are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on BNY Mellon or across the industry. In addition to the discussion in this section, see “Risk Factors – Recent legislative actions may have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations.” in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K.  

Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon  

BNY Mellon is regulated as a bank holding company and a financial holding company (“FHC”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended by the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and by the Dodd-Frank Act (the “BHC Act”). As such, it is subject to the supervision of the Federal Reserve Board. In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies that are FHCs to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and, as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act, engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury Department) or (2) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial companies.  

Our ability to maintain FHC status is dependent upon a number of factors, including our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to qualify as “well capitalized” as described under “Prompt Corrective Action” below. Beginning in July 2011, our FHC status will also depend upon BNY Mellon 

BNY Mellon 5  

Table of Contents 

maintaining its status as “well capitalized” and “well managed” under applicable Federal Reserve Board regulations. An FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies without FHC status or to continue such activities. Currently, we meet these requirements.  

The Bank of New York Mellon, which is BNY Mellon’s largest bank subsidiary, is a New York state chartered bank, is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department (the “NYSBD”). BNY Mellon’s national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, are subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.  

We operate a number of broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are SEC registered broker-dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), a securities industry self-regulatory organization. BNY Mellon’s non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities-related activities are regulated by supervisory agencies in the countries in which they conduct business. Certain of BNY Mellon’s public finance activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. Certain of BNY Mellon’s subsidiaries are registered with the CFTC as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation.  

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended and, as such, are supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of any countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “‘40 Act”), including the Dreyfus family of mutual funds, and private investment companies which are not registered under the ‘40 Act. The shares of most investment companies advised by our subsidiaries are 

qualified for sale in all states in the U.S. and the District of Columbia, except for investment companies that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are exempt from such registration or qualification.  

Our financial services operations in the United Kingdom are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). Certain of BNY Mellon’s United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment business in the U.K. pursuant to the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA 2000”). Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the FSA. The FSA has broad supervisory and disciplinary powers. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a breach of FSMA 2000 and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. Certain U.K. investment funds, including BNY Mellon Investment Funds, an open-ended investment company with variable capital advised by U.K. regulated subsidiaries of BNY Mellon, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the U.K.  

The types of activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate and, in the case of banking subsidiaries, may be subject to regulatory capital requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. As of Dec. 31, 2010, each of BNY Mellon’s non-U.S. banking subsidiaries had capital ratios above their specified minimum requirements.  

Dividend Restrictions  

Dividend payments by BNY Mellon to its shareholders are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve Board. On Nov. 17, 2010, the Federal Reserve Board issued Revised Temporary Addendum to SR letter 09-4. The letter described the process the Federal Reserve Board will follow to assess comprehensive capital plans of the 19 Supervisory Capital Assessment Program bank holding companies, including any request to take capital 

6 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

actions such as increased dividends or stock buybacks. The Federal Reserve Board indicated that the capital plans will be assessed against, among other things, the bank holding company’s ability to achieve the Basel III capital ratio requirements referred to below as they are phased in by U.S. regulators and any potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the company’s risk profile, business strategy, corporate structure or capital adequacy. Our comprehensive capital plans, which were prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, included bank developed baseline and stress projections as well as a supervisory stress projection using adverse macroeconomic assumptions provided by the Federal Reserve Board. Any increase in BNY Mellon’s ongoing quarterly dividends would require consultation with the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board’s current guidance provides that, for large bank holding companies like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.  

BNY Mellon is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to our bank subsidiaries and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our guarantees of debt issued by our subsidiaries or of trust preferred securities issued by a trust or to pay dividends on our own equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory  

consent. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would reduce a depository institution’s capital to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDI Act”), an insured depository institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is under capitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which 

 provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.  

In general, the amount of dividends that may be paid by The Bank of New York Mellon or BNY Mellon, N.A. is limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a “recent earnings” test and an “undivided profits” test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared and paid by the entity in any calendar year exceeds the current year’s net income combined with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless the entity obtains prior regulatory approval. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess of the entity’s “undivided profits” (generally, accumulated net profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred to surplus). As a result of charges related to the restructuring of BNY Mellon’s securities portfolio in 2009, The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. will require regulatory consent prior to paying a dividend. The ability of BNY Mellon’s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to BNY Mellon may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for banking organizations.  

For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the “Liquidity and dividends” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report and the first five paragraphs of Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference. Further, BNY Mellon’s right to participate in the assets or earnings of a subsidiary is subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary.  

Transactions with Affiliates and Insiders  

Transactions between BNY Mellon’s bank subsidiaries and BNY Mellon and its non-bank subsidiaries are regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. These regulations limit the types and amounts of transactions (including loans due and extensions of credit from the U.S. bank subsidiaries) that may take place and generally require those transactions to be on an arm’s-length basis. These regulations generally do not apply to transactions between a U.S. bank subsidiary and its subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured by designated amounts of specified 

BNY Mellon 7  

Table of Contents 

collateral and are limited, as to any one of BNY Mellon or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to BNY Mellon and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank’s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions, other than the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions with any one affiliate, are also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expands the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization. For example, commencing in July 2012, the Dodd-Frank Act will require that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions begin to apply to financial subsidiaries. Commencing in July 2012, Dodd-Frank has also expanded the definition of a “covered transaction” to include derivatives transactions under which a bank (or a subsidiary) has credit exposure (with the term “credit exposure” to be defined by the Federal Reserve Board under its existing rulemaking authority), as well as repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements.  

Deposit Insurance  

Our U.S. banking subsidiaries, including The Bank of New York Mellon and BNY Mellon, N.A. accept deposits, and those deposits have the benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”) is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions, which depend on the risk category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits that it holds. The FDIC required all insured depository institutions to prepay estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on December 30, 2009. The FDIC may increase or decrease the assessment rate schedule on a semi-annual basis. Under the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank’s federal regulatory agency.  

On Feb. 7, 2011, the FDIC adopted regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Act which set forth a new method of calculating assessments paid by large insured depository institutions, including BNY Mellon. The new regulations base insurance assessments on the average consolidated assets less the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period, with adjustments for custody banks, including BNY Mellon. We expect the FDIC assessment rule to have a minimal impact in 2011. For additional discussion about FDIC assessments, see “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” in the MD&A section of the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. 

Source of Strength and Liability of Affiliates  

Federal Reserve Board policy historically has required bank holding companies to act as a source of strength to their bank subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies this policy as a statutory requirement. Such support may be required by the Federal Reserve Board at times when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. In addition, any loans by BNY Mellon to its bank subsidiaries would be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. In addition, in certain circumstances BNY Mellon’s insured depository institutions could be assessed for losses incurred by another BNY Mellon insured depository institution. In the event of impairment of capital stock of one of BNY Mellon’s national banks or The Bank of New York Mellon, the bank’s stockholders could be required to pay such deficiency.  

Capital Requirements  

As a bank holding company, we are subject to consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal Reserve Board. Our bank subsidiaries are subject to similar capital requirements, administered by the Federal Reserve Board in the case of The Bank of New York Mellon and by the OCC in the case of our national bank subsidiaries, BNY Mellon, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association. These requirements are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.  

The risk-based capital guidelines currently applicable to bank holding companies are based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). The federal bank regulatory agencies have adopted new risk-based capital guidelines for “core banks”, including BNY Mellon, based upon the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards (“Basel II”) issued by the Basel Committee in June 2004 and updated in November 2005. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity 

8 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

regulation, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as “Basel III.” Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. banking agencies and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. Additional information on the calculation of our Tier 1 capital, Total capital and risk-weighted assets is set forth in “Capital” in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, and additional information on our capital requirements is set forth in “Recent Accounting and Regulatory Developments” in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference.  

Basel I  

Under the existing Basel I-based regulations, the risk-based capital ratio is determined by dividing the components of capital, described further below, by risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit). The regulatory capital rules state that voting common stockholders’ equity should be the predominant element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on non-common equity elements. Risk-adjusted assets are determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet items into weighted categories. The required minimum ratio of “Total capital” (the sum of “Tier 1” and “Tier 2” capital) to risk-adjusted assets is currently 8%. The required minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4%. The risk-based capital rules state that the capital requirements are minimum standards based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other types of risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and operational risks). The Federal Reserve Board may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for categories of banks (e.g. systematically important financial institutions), or for an individual bank as situations warrant. For example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Other factors identified by the risk-based capital requirements as important in assessing an institution’s overall capital adequacy include concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from non-traditional activities, including the management of those risks. At Dec. 31, 2010, BNY Mellon’s Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets and Total capital ratios were 13.4% and 16.3%, respectively. 

In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount calculated by using the banking organizations’ own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators. In January 2011, the Federal Banking Agencies published proposed amendments to their market risk rules, known as “Basel II.5.” Those changes will result in increased capital requirements for market risk.  

Basel II  

The federal bank regulatory agencies are mandating the adoption of Basel II for “core” banks. BNY Mellon and its depository institution subsidiaries are “core” banks. The only approach available to “core” banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based (“A-IRB”) approach for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach (“AMA”) for operational risk.  

The U.S. Basel II final rule became effective on April 1, 2008. Under the final rule in its current form, 2009 was the first year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods during which banks subject to the final rule calculate their capital requirements under both the old regulations and new regulations. The U.S. Basel II rules currently provide that “core” banks would calculate their capital requirements only under the new Basel II-based requirements after completion of the three transitional floor periods. In the U.S., we began the parallel run of calculations under both the old and new guidelines in the second quarter of 2010. Dodd-Frank requires the U.S. banking agencies to amend their capital rules to provide that minimum capital as required under the Basel I-based rules will act as a floor for minimum capital requirements calculated in accordance with the U.S. Basel II rules. Accordingly, the transition for “core” banks to calculations only under the Basel II-based requirements is being eliminated. Beginning Jan. 1, 2008, we implemented the Basel II Standardized Approach for our banks organized in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg. We maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II reporting process. We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices.  

Basel III  

The Basel III final capital framework, among other things: 

BNY Mellon 9  

Table of Contents 

 •    introduces as a new capital measure “Common Equity Tier 1”, or “CET1”, specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and expands the scope of the adjustments as compared to existing regulations;  

 •    when fully phased in on Jan. 1, 2019, requires banks to maintain:  

   •    as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%);  

   •    a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation);  

   •    a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation);  

   •    as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter); and  

   •    provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer”, generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).  

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital 

conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.  

The implementation of the Basel III final framework will commence Jan. 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios:  

 •    3.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;  

 •    4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and  

 •    8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.  

The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1.  

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 will begin on Jan. 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on Jan. 1, 2016 at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent Jan. 1, until it reaches 2.5% on Jan. 1, 2019).  

The U.S. banking agencies have indicated informally that they expect to propose regulations implementing Basel III in mid-2011 with final adoption of implementing regulations in mid-2012. Notwithstanding its release of the Basel III framework as a final framework, the Basel Committee is considering further amendments to Basel III, including the imposition of additional capital surcharges on globally systemically important financial institutions, which could include BNY Mellon. In addition to Basel III, Dodd-Frank requires the Federal banking agencies to adopt regulations affecting banking institutions’ capital requirements in a number of respects, including potentially more stringent capital requirements for systemically important financial institutions. Accordingly, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially different from the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010. 

10 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

Impact on BNY Mellon  

Given that the Basel III rules are subject to change, and the scope and content of capital regulations that the U.S. banking agencies may adopt under Dodd-Frank is uncertain, we cannot be certain of the impact new capital regulations will have on our capital ratios. However, given our balance sheet strength and ongoing internal capital generation, we currently estimate that our Tier 1 common ratio, under Basel III guidelines, will be above 7% by Dec. 31, 2011. This estimated ratio includes an anticipated dividend increase and potential share repurchases in 2011, assuming Federal Reserve Board approval.  

Leverage Requirement  

Basel I and Basel II do not include a leverage requirement as an international standard. However, even though a leverage requirement has not been an international standard in the past, the U.S. banking agencies’ capital regulations do require bank holding companies and banks to comply with a minimum leverage ratio requirement (Basel III will impose a leverage requirement as an international standard). The Federal Reserve Board’s existing leverage ratio for bank holding companies is that the bank holding company maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The rules require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised us of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to us. At Dec. 31, 2010, our leverage ratio was 5.8%. Also, the rules indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will consider a “tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio” in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier 1 leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier 1 capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles).  

Liquidity Ratios under Basel III  

Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and 

regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio, is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio, is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incentivize banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. The liquidity coverage ratio would be implemented subject to an observation period beginning in 2011, but would not be introduced as a requirement until Jan. 1, 2015, and the net stable funding ratio would not be introduced as a requirement until Jan. 1, 2018. These new standards are subject to further rulemaking and their terms may well change before implementation.  

Prompt Corrective Action  

The FDI Act, as amended by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), requires the federal banking agencies to take “prompt corrective action” in respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories for FDIC-insured banks: well-capitalized, adequately-capitalized, under-capitalized, significantly under-capitalized and critically under-capitalized. A depository institution is deemed to be “well capitalized” if the banking institution has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified.  

At Dec. 31, 2010, all of our bank subsidiaries were “well capitalized” based on the ratios and guidelines noted above. A bank’s capital category, however, is determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not be an accurate representation of the bank’s overall financial condition or prospects. 

BNY Mellon 11  

Table of Contents 

Depositor Preference  

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution are afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver.  

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act  

A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as BNY Mellon’s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds and private investment companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.  

Privacy  

The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes. 

Acquisitions  

Federal and state laws impose notice and approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or bank holding companies. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5.0% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or bank holding company. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger applications, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization, convenience and needs factors, including the applicant’s record under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 which requires U.S. banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities (including credit to low and moderate income individuals and geographies) and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other acquisitions by BNY Mellon may be subject to informal notice and approval by the Federal Reserve Board or other regulatory authorities.  

Competition  

BNY Mellon is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Asset Management and Wealth Management businesses experience competition from asset management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies, and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms, and insurance companies. These firms and companies may be domiciled domestically or internationally. Our Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Clearing Services and Treasury Services businesses compete with domestic and foreign banks that offer institutional trust, custody products and cash management products, as well as a wide range of technologically capable service providers, such as data processing and shareholder service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer services for institutional and retail customers.  

Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the “Supervision and Regulation” section of this Form 10-K and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects. 

12 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

In recent years there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry. Many broad-based financial services firms now have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage and asset management, which may enhance their competitive position. As a result of current conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general, competition could continue to intensify and consolidation of financial service companies could continue to increase.  

As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to being able to implement this. For additional discussion regarding competition, see Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K, “Risk Factors – Competition – We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability” below, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Employees  

At Dec. 31, 2010, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 48,000 employees.  

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies  

The Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Exchange Act Industry Guide 3 (together “Guide 3”) require that the following statistical disclosures be made in annual reports on Form 10-K filed by bank holding companies.  

 I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Supplemental information – Rate/volume analysis” sections in the MD&A and in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. 

 II. Investment Portfolio  

 A. Book Value of Investments;  

 B. Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and,  

 C. Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceed 10% of Stockholders’ Equity  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review - Investment securities” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 III. Loan Portfolio  

 A. Types of Loans and  

 B. Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and Note 1 and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 C. Risk Elements and  

 D. Other Interest-bearing Assets  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans and – Nonperforming assets” and “International operations- Cross-border risk” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and Note 1 and Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Critical accounting estimates – Asset quality and allowance for credit losses” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section, which portion is incorporated herein by reference, and below.  

When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged off. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented 

BNY Mellon 13  

Table of Contents 

in the “Asset quality and allowance for credit losses” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management’s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the “Risk management – Credit risk” and “Critical accounting estimates” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section, Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under “Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending related commitments” and in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 V. Deposits  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review - Deposits” sections in the MD&A – Results of Operations section and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 VI. Return on Equity and Assets  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Financial summary” section, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 VII. Short - Term Borrowings  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Short-term borrowings” section in the MD&A – Results of Operations section, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.  

Replacement Capital Covenant  

On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “RCC”) in connection with the issuance by Mellon Financial of £200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon Financial’s 6.369% junior subordinated deferrable interest debt securities, due 2066 (the “Junior Subordinated Debt Securities”) to Mellon Capital III (the “Trust”) and the issuance by the Trust of 

£200,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of the Trust’s 6.369% trust preferred securities (the “Preferred Securities”). We refer to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities collectively as the “Securities.” Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligations under the RCC.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt” in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:  

 •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve Board’s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies, and  

   •    the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that, generally described, based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and  

 •    BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term 

14 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the RCC but is subordinated debt. The RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.  

The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial’s current report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 20, 2006. The description of the RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “2007 RCC”) in connection with (i) the issuance by Mellon Capital IV (the “2007 Trust”) of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or “Normal PCS” (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the “PCS”), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii) the issuance by Mellon Financial to the 2007 Trust of $500,000,000 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes, or “Junior Notes”, and a 1/100th interest in a Stock Purchase Contract under which the 2007 Trust is obligated to purchase, and Mellon Financial is obligated to sell, one share of Mellon Financial’s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L, $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the “Preferred Stock”). Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligation under the 2007 RCC.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt”, that on or before the “Stock Purchase Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2012), with respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before the “Termination 

Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2022), with respect to the PCS or Preferred Stock (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred to as the “2007 Securities”):  

 •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve Board’s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and  

   •    the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon Financial’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the 2007 RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon’s long-term indebtedness for money 

BNY Mellon 15  

Table of Contents 

borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the 2007 RCC.  

The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon Financial’s current report on Form 8-K dated June 20, 2007. The description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS