PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

We are a global media company with respected high-profile brands and are a leading developer of lifestyle-oriented content, providing primarily home, food and travel lifestyle-related programming. Our content is distributed via multiple methods, including television, the internet, digital platforms and licensing arrangements. The SNI portfolio of networks includes HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country within and outside the United States (“U.S.”), with the exception of Great American Country, which is only distributed in the United States, and Fine Living, Asian Food Channel (“AFC”) and TVN S.A.’s (“TVN”) portfolio of networks outside the United States. Additionally, outside the United States, we participate in UKTV, a joint venture with BBC Worldwide Limited (the “BBC”). Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by producing and delivering entertaining and highly-useful content that focuses on specifically-defined topics of interest. 

We intend to expand and enhance our lifestyle brands by: growing our brands through the creation of popular new programming and content; reaching additional demographics; extending distribution on various platforms, such as  

4 

over-the-top (“OTT”) and digital entrants providing streaming and/or on-demand services; and increasing our international footprint. We have a large library of content which we have produced and own the rights to indefinitely, enabling us to exploit original programming quickly and/or repackage content in a cost-effective manner. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

We have two reportable segments: U.S. Networks and International Networks. 

Our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) evaluates the operating performance of our businesses and makes decisions about the allocation of resources to the businesses using a measure we refer to as segment profit (loss). Segment profit (loss) is defined as income (loss) from operations before income taxes excluding depreciation, amortization, goodwill write-down, interest expense, net, equity in earnings of affiliates, gain (loss) on derivatives, gain (loss) on sale of investments and other miscellaneous non-operating expenses, which are included in net income (loss) determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). 

Depreciation and amortization charges are a result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are, therefore, excluded from segment profit (loss). Also excluded from segment profit (loss) are financing, tax structuring and acquisition and divestiture decisions, which are generally made by corporate executives. Excluding these items from the performance measure of our businesses enables management to evaluate operating performance based on current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of the businesses in the current period. 

MERGER AGREEMENT WITH DISCOVERY COMMUNICATIONS, INC. (“Discovery”) 

On July 30, 2017, Discovery, Scripps, and Skylight Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Discovery (“Merger Sub”), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, (“Merger Agreement”). The Merger Agreement provides for the merger of Merger Sub with and into Scripps, with Scripps continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Discovery (“Merger”) for a purchase price reflecting a total enterprise value of approximately $14.6 billion for the Company. 

The Merger was approved unanimously by the Board of Directors of both SNI and Discovery and is subject to review by regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. The Merger Agreement is also subject to a number of conditions as described in Note 4 – Significant Transactions. 

The transaction is expected to close in the first quarter of 2018. The full terms of the transaction are included in the Merger Agreement dated July 30, 2017, which was included as Exhibit 2.1 to the Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 31, 2017. 

U.S. Networks 

U.S. Networks includes our six national television networks: HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country. Additionally, U.S. Networks includes websites associated with the aforementioned television brands and other internet and digital businesses serving home, food and travel lifestyle-related categories. U.S. Networks also includes our digital content studio, Scripps Lifestyle Studios. We own 100.0 percent of each of our networks, with the exception of Food Network and Cooking Channel, of which we own 68.7 percent. Each of our networks is distributed by cable and satellite operators, telecommunication suppliers and other digital providers, such as those providing streaming, OTT or on-demand services.  

U.S. Networks generates revenues primarily from advertising sales and distribution fees. U.S. Networks also earns revenues from licensing content as well as brands for consumer products. 

Revenues from advertising sales generated by our domestic television networks depend on viewership ratings, as determined by Nielsen Media Research (“Nielsen”) and other third-party research companies, and rates paid by  

5 

customers for delivery of advertisements to certain viewer demographics. Revenues from advertising sales are subject to seasonality, market-based variations and general economic conditions. Advertising sales are typically highest in the second and fourth quarters and can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programming, time of day an advertisement is run and seasonal demand of advertisers.  

Revenues from distribution fees are typically the result of multi-year carriage agreements that contain scheduled rate increases. Distribution fees are determined primarily by the number of subscribers with access to the content of our various networks. 

Our lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media that is intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of home, food and travel and lifestyle-oriented content.  

The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of our presence on multiple social media applications, TV Everywhere watch sites, mobile applications and desktop websites, including, but not limited to, our six network-branded websites: HGTV.com, Foodnetwork.com, Travelchannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, Cookingchanneltv.com and Greatamericancountry.com. In addition to serving as websites for the television networks, the websites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their respective lifestyle content categories. Revenues generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses are derived primarily from the sale of display, banner and video advertising through all of these platforms. All of our interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming, of which we own approximately 95.2 percent. Owning our programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on websites and digital platforms, including streaming and on-demand services. 

The lifestyle-oriented websites accounted for approximately 4.4 percent of U.S. Networks’ total operating revenues in 2017. The strategic focus of the lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses is to grow advertising sales by increasing views and video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our websites through site enhancements and additional video. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through placing our video programming on national video streaming sites, developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth on our digital platforms and capitalizing on the movement of advertising dollars to mobile platforms. 

Programming expenses, employee costs and marketing and advertising expenses are the primary operating costs of U.S. Networks. Marketing and advertising expenses are incurred to support brand-building initiatives at all of our networks and interactive businesses. 

HGTV  

HGTV is available in approximately 90.8 million domestic television households and is simulcast in high definition (“HD”). HGTV programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home-related topics, such as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. HGTV appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. HGTV ranked second among women in the 25 to 54 age range for cable networks. Also, HGTV ranked fourth among all adult viewers and eighth among adult viewers in the 25 to 54 age range for cable networks.  

Programming on HGTV includes House Hunters, House Hunters International, Fixer Upper, Flip or Flop and its offshoots, The Property Brothers, Home Town, Caribbean Life and Beachfront Bargain Hunt. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Smart Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway and annual live coverage of the Tournament of Roses Parade. Many of the programs on HGTV feature, or are hosted by, high-profile television personalities such as Drew and Jonathan Scott, Chip and Joanna Gaines, David Bromstad and Ben and Erin Napier.  

6 

Food Network  

Food Network is available in approximately 92.8 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 68.7 percent of the Food Network and are the managing partner. The Tribune Media Company (“The Tribune”) has a 31.3 percent non-controlling interest in Food Network.  

Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested specifically in food-related topics, such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, competition, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. Food Network appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. Food Network ranked within the top 10 cable networks for women ages 18 to 49 and within the top 15 cable networks for adults ages 25 to 54.  

Programming on Food Network includes primetime series Beat Bobby Flay, Chopped, Diners, Drive-ins and Dives, Food Network Star and Guy’s Grocery Games, as well as daytime series Barefoot Contessa, The Kitchen, Pioneer Woman and Trisha’s Southern Kitchen. Food Network hosts include high-profile television personalities such as Ted Allen, Alton Brown, Anne Burrell, Giada De Laurentiis, Bobby Flay, Guy Fieri, Alex Guarnaschelli, Geoffrey Zakarian, Ree Drummond, Trisha Yearwood and Valerie Bertinelli.  

Travel Channel  

Travel Channel is available in approximately 82.5 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. Travel Channel programming content attracts travel enthusiasts and adventurous personalities. Travel Channel appeals strongly to upscale cable viewers.  

Programming on Travel Channel includes Expedition Unknown, Mysteries at the Museum, Bizarre Foods with Andrew Zimmern, Bizarre Foods: Delicious Destinations, Man v Food and Ghost Advendtures. Many of the programs on Travel Channel feature, or are hosted by, high-profile television personalities such as Andrew Zimmern, Don Wildman, Josh Gates, Zak Bagans and Casey Webb.  

DIY Network  

DIY Network is available in approximately 55.6 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. DIY Network programming content attracts do-it-yourself audiences and provides entertaining and informational content across a broad range of categories, including home building, home improvement and renovations, gardening and landscaping. DIY Network appeals more strongly to male viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges.  

Programming on DIY Network includes Barnwood Builders, Vanilla Ice Project, Building Alaska, First Time Flippers, Tiny House Big Living and Texas Flip N Move. Many of the programs on DIY Network feature, or are hosted by, television personalities such as Vanilla Ice, Chris Lambton and Mike Holmes.  

Cooking Channel  

Cooking Channel is available in approximately 61.9 million domestic households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 68.7 percent of Cooking Channel, which represents a controlling interest. The Tribune has a 31.3 percent non-controlling interest in Cooking Channel.  

Cooking Channel programming content caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information, food exploration and instructional cooking. The Cooking Channel appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges.  

7 

Programming on Cooking Channel includes Beach Bites with Katie Lee, Best Thing I Ever Ate, Cake Hunters, Carnival Eats, Cheap Eats, Food Fact or Fiction and Man Fire Food. Cooking Channel hosts include notable television personalities such as Katie Lee, Michael McKean and Roger Mooking. 

Great American Country  

Great American Country is available in approximately 52.8 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. Great American Country provides its viewers with programming content that celebrates the country lifestyle and includes the country music experience, music performance specials, live concerts and country music videos.  

Programming on Great American Country includes Going RV, Flea Market Flip, Log Cabin Living, Living Alaska and the Top 20 Country Countdown with television personalities Nan Kelley and Lara Spencer. 

Scripps Lifestyle Studios 

Scripps Lifestyle Studios digital brands reach approximately 375 million people every month across site, social and connected devices. The brands included under Scripps Lifestyle Studios include HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel, Great American Country, Spoon University and Genius Kitchen. 

Scripps Lifestyle Studios digital content is distributed across major social networks, websites, emerging technologies and connected devices. Convergent and original digital programming appeals to male and female audiences in the 18 to 44 demographic The core brands, HGTV, Food Network and Travel Channel, consistently rank in the top 5 for social video views against category competitors. Spoon University engages with college students and millennials ages 18 to 24 and creates content aimed towards young people who are learning to cook for the first time. Genius Kitchen is a digital platform available on website, mobile and connected devices with content that appeals to millennials ages 22 to 35 who love food, cooking, entertaining and new experiences with friends. 

International Networks 

International Networks includes TVN, which operates a portfolio of free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle and entertainment networks in Poland, including TVN, TVN24, TVN Style, TTV, TVN Turbo, i Swiat and TVN24 BiS as well as HGTV Poland. Also included in TVN is TVN Media, an advertising sales house. Additionally, International Networks includes other lifestyle-oriented networks available in the United Kingdom (“UK”), other European markets, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), Asia Pacific (“APAC”) and Latin America (“LATAM”). International Networks also includes our 50.0 percent share of the results of UKTV, a general entertainment and lifestyle channel platform in the U.K. 

International Networks generates revenues primarily from advertising sales, distribution fees and program licensing to third parties. Satellite transmission fees, programming expenses, employee costs and marketing and advertising expenses are the primary operating costs of International Networks.  

We currently distribute HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel, AFC and Fine Living Network, as well as the TVN network portfolio, in more than 175 countries and territories around the world. Our networks are broadcast in 31 languages via 42 channel feeds reaching more than 300 million cumulative subscribers. In addition to the broadcast networks, we also license a portion of our programming to other broadcasters around the world.  

Internationally, we also have joint-venture partnerships with the BBC for UKTV and its suite of 10 general entertainment and lifestyle networks in the UK and with Corus Entertainment for HGTV, DIY Network, Food Network and Cooking Channel in Canada.  

In 2009, the Company launched its first international pay-television channel through Food Network in the UK. The channel first launched on pay-television, then expanded its distribution in 2012 to free-to-air on Freeview, initially in primetime and then as a full 24-hour broadcast channel in 2013. Currently, Food Network is the third most  

8 

viewed lifestyle channel and the sixth most viewed non-scripted factual channel in the UK. Food Network is also available across EMEA, APAC and Latin America. 

In 2012, Travel Channel International Ltd. (“TCI”) was acquired, along with its base of operations in London. TCI is broadcast in 25 languages across a wide network of affiliates throughout EMEA and APAC. In 2014, TCI also became available on Freeview in primetime in the UK. 

In 2013, the Company acquired AFC, a complementary channel brand to Food Network. AFC, which is based in Singapore, broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week and reaches about 13.7 million subscribers in 11 markets. 

In early 2014, we launched the Fine Living Network in Italy on the digital terrestrial television. Since its launch, over 58.3 percent of Italy’s television population has tuned into the channel. In late 2014, we launched HGTV in Singapore. HGTV is the first channel dedicated to the home and lifestyle category across APAC.  

During 2015, we acquired TVN, a Polish media company; launched Travel Channel as a 24/7 free-to-air channel in the UK; expanded distribution of Food Network across Latin America and HGTV in APAC; launched Food Network in Australia in partnership with Special Broadcasting Service (“SBS”); and secured a large volume output deal with Nine in Australia to launch an HGTV-branded block on newly-established 9LIFE, Australia’s first free-to-air lifestyle network. 

In the second quarter of 2016, we launched HGTV as a free-to-air channel in New Zealand as a first of its kind offering in the region. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we launched HGTV in the Middle East and North Africa. Also during the fourth quarter of 2016, we launched Cooking Channel in Canada, marking the first time we distributed this network outside the United States and Caribbean. 

In the first quarter of 2017, we launched HGTV in Poland, expanding the reach of this brand internationally. In the second quarter of 2017, we launched Food Network as a free-to-air channel in Italy. In the third quarter of 2017, we launched Food Network South Africa. 

Competition 

Cable, satellite and telecommunications network programming is a highly-competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our television networks and interactive businesses generally compete for advertising sales with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our television networks and interactive business also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks, streaming, OTT, on-demand services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Additionally, our networks compete with other television networks and programming providers for distribution fees derived from agreements with cable and satellite operators, telecommunication suppliers and other distributors, including digital service providers. 

Intellectual Property 

Our intellectual property (“IP”) assets include copyrights in television content, trademarks and servicemarks in brands, names and logos, websites, and licenses from third parties. To defend these assets, we rely upon a combination of common law, statutory and contractual legal protections. There can be no assurance, however, of the degree to which these measures will be successful. Moreover, effective IP protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related IP is difficult and costly. Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our IP from time to time, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of IP rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses the theft of our signal and unauthorized use of our content in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues. 

9 

Regulatory Matters 

The Company is subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to the laws and regulations of international countries and bodies, such as the European Union (the “EU”). These laws and regulations are subject to change. Additionally, in the U.S. the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) regulates cable television and satellite operators and telecommunication suppliers, which could affect our networks indirectly. 

Closed Captioning 

All of our cable networks must provide closed-captioning programming for the hearing impaired. The 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2011 also requires us to provide closed captioning on certain video programming that we offer on the internet. 

CALM Act 

FCC rules require multichannel video programming distributors to ensure that all commercials comply with specified volume standards. Our distribution agreements generally require us to certify compliance with such standards. 

“Must-Carry” Requirements 

The FCC’s implementation of the statutory “must-carry” obligations requires cable operators and multichannel video programming distributors to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space. In contrast, cable programming television networks, such as ours, have no guaranteed right of carriage on these systems. This may reduce the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our networks by these systems. 

Regulation of the Internet and Mobile Applications 

We operate numerous websites and make available mobile applications (“apps”) which we use to distribute information about our programs and to engage more deeply with our viewers. The operation of these websites and apps is subject to a range of international, federal, state and local laws, such as privacy and consumer protection regulations. 

Video Description 

The FCC requires program distributors that serve 50,000 or more subscribers to provide 87.5 hours of video-described programming per calendar quarter on channels carrying each of the top five national non-broadcast networks. Every three years, using Nielsen ratings results, the FCC identifies the top five national non-broadcast networks. In January 2018, the FCC determined that HGTV is one of the top five non-broadcast networks. Accordingly, beginning July 1, 2018, HGTV will offer a quarterly minimum of 87.5 hours of described programming. 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 3,600 full-time equivalent employees globally. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS