ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

A number of significant risk factors could materially affect our specific business operations and cause our performance to differ materially from any future results projected or implied by our prior statements. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. The risks and uncertainties our Company faces, however, are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. 

10 

In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends for future periods. 

If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our Class A Common Shares could decline. 

Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences could reduce demand for our services and reduce profitability of our businesses. 

Each of our networks provides content and services whose success is primarily dependent on widespread acceptance by the public. We must consistently create and distribute offerings that appeal to the prevailing consumer tastes at any point in time, which is difficult to predict and can change rapidly. The Company must invest substantial amounts in the production and marketing of its content before it learns whether such content will reach anticipated levels of popularity with consumers. The popularity of the Company’s content depends on many factors, only some of which are within the Company’s control. Examples include the popularity of competing content, the availability of alternative forms of leisure and entertainment activities, general economic conditions, the growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and the Company’s ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness with key target audiences.  

Advertisers place a premium on live viewers of content, including the quality of the audience, which is driven by viewer income and spending habits. The anticipated demographics that our advertising customers seek drives pricing for advertising, which could be negatively impacted should widespread customer acceptance of our content not occur.  

Any event that could cast a negative light on our entertainment personalities or adversely impact our brands and brand reputation could have a material impact on our earnings. 

If we are unable to maintain distribution agreements at acceptable rates, packaging and/or terms, our revenues and profitability could be negatively affected. 

We enter into multi-year contracts with distributors for our networks. Our long-term distribution arrangements enable us to reach a large percentage of households receiving multichannel video programming distribution across the United States. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate them. If we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms or at rates and/or packaging similar to those in other distribution contracts, we may lose distribution rights and/or distribution fee revenues. 

These distribution agreements may also include “most favored nation” (“MFN”) clauses. Such clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, those terms must be offered to the distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. The MFN clauses within our distribution agreements are generally complex. Parties may interpret them differently and reach a conflicting view of compliance of that held by the Company, which, if proven correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

The loss of a significant distribution arrangement on basic programming tiers could reduce distribution of our networks, thereby adversely affecting distribution revenues, subjecting certain of our intangible assets to possible impairments and potentially impacting our ability to sell advertising at acceptable rates. 

Generally, three of our networks that are carried on digital tiers are dependent upon the willingness of consumers to pay for such tiers, as well as our ability to negotiate favorable carriage agreements on widely accepted digital tiers. 

Further consolidation among cable and satellite operators and telecommunications suppliers could reduce the number of distributors available to carry our programming, subject our distribution revenue to greater volume discounts and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite operators and telecommunications suppliers, which could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition of our business.  

11 

Consolidation among distributors has given the largest cable, satellite and telecommunications operators considerable leverage in their relationship with content providers. The four largest distributors in the United States provide service to approximately 79.1 percent of U.S. paid television households receiving cable or satellite television service today. 

Additionally, deficiencies with the methodologies of audience measurement techniques on tablets, mobile devices and emerging technologies may adversely impact our ability to monetize the use of our content. 

Service disruptions and/or the failure of communications relied on by the Company could have a negative impact on the profitability of our business. 

Our business relies heavily on communications satellites and transmitter facilities to transmit our programming to distributors. Shutdowns of satellites and transmitter facilities or service disruptions pose significant risks to the Company’s operations. Such disruptions may be caused by power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, failures or impairments of communication satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming or other similar events. If a satellite is not able to transmit the Company’s programming, the Company may not be able to secure an alternative communication satellite in a timely manner because there are a limited number of communications satellites available to transmit programming. If such an event were to occur, there could be a disruption in the delivery of the Company’s programming, which could harm the Company’s reputation and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.  

Our networks face significant competitive pressures related to attracting consumers and advertisers. Failure by us to maintain our competitive advantage may affect the profitability of our networks. 

We face substantial competition from alternative providers of similar services. Our cable television networks compete for viewers with other broadcast and cable television networks and with home video products and other content providers, including OTT, digital streaming and on-demand services, for carriage of programming. Additionally, our cable television networks compete for advertising revenues with a variety of other media alternatives, including other broadcast and cable television networks, the internet, newspapers, radio stations and print media. Our websites compete for visitors and advertising dollars with other forms of media aimed at attracting similar audiences and, therefore, must provide popular content in order to maintain and increase site traffic. Competition may divert consumers from our services, which could reduce the profitability of our networks. 

Changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may impact the performance of our networks. 

We must adapt to advances in technologies and distribution platforms related to content transfer to ensure that our content remains desirable and widely available to our audiences. The ability to anticipate and take advantage of new and future sources of revenues from technological developments will affect our ability to continue to increase our revenues and expand our businesses. Additionally, we must adapt to the changing consumer behavior driven by advances in technology, such as digital streaming and on-demand services, and devices, such as tablets and mobile, providing consumers the ability to view content anywhere and at any time. Changes of these types may impact our traditional distribution methods for our content. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content allow us to reach our target audiences through alternative vehicles, there could be a negative effect on our business. 

We face risks relating to data security and privacy, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses. 

Our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal systems, involve the storage and transmission of personal and proprietary information. Additionally, we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming. Although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee error, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive, private or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ data. Because the techniques used  

12 

to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our or our users’ proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services and/or significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. 

Further, our business is subject to a complex array of federal, state and international laws regarding the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, and transfer of personal data. These privacy and data protection-related laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. For example, the EU has adopted a new General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which will replace the existing Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/EC) and which goes into effect as of May 25, 2018. GDPR will tighten regulation of the collection, use and security of personal data and will continue to restrict the trans-border flow of such data, while significantly increasing the potential fines for non-compliance. The European Commission (“EC”) has also proposed a new e-Privacy Regulation that would supersede the existing Directive and which, if adopted, could impose significant new legal requirements regarding electronic communications and the use of online tracking technologies and substantially increase penalties for non-compliance. Evolving data protection laws may require the Company to expend significant resources to implement additional data protection measures. The Company’s actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect personal data, could result in enforcement actions and significant penalties. 

The loss of key talent or inability to identify and locate new and engaging talent could cause disruption and adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. 

Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. We employ or contract with entertainment personalities who may have loyal audiences. These individuals are important to audience endorsement of our programs and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or retain their current audiences. If we fail to retain key individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current audience base, our operations could be adversely affected. 

Any event that could negatively impact our brands and brand reputation could have a material impact to our financial condition and results of operations. 

We are subject to risks related to our international operations. 

We have operations and investments in a number of foreign jurisdictions. The inherent economic risks of doing business in international markets that are beyond our control include, among other things (i) changes in the economic environment, (ii) changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content, imposition of local content quotas and restrictions on foreign ownership, (iii) differing degrees of protection for IP and varying attitudes towards the piracy of IP, (iv) exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers, (v) foreign taxation, (vi) anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations and changes in these laws and regulations, (vii) foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulation and changes in these laws, (viii) shifting consumer preferences regarding the viewing of video programming, (ix) corruption, (x) confiscation, (xi) currency inconvertibility, (xii) nationalization of assets and (xiii), in some markets, increased risk of economic and geopolitical instability. Additionally, the local currencies in which our international operations conduct their business could change in value relative to the U.S. Dollar (“USD”), exposing our results to exchange rate fluctuations. 

Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and prospects. 

13 

Furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the U.S. We also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes, including the imposition of new restrictions, in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business. Acts of terrorism, hostilities, or financial, political, economic or other uncertainties could lead to a reduction in revenues or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

Our business is subject to risks of adverse changes in laws and regulations. 

Our programming services and the distributors of our programming, including cable and satellite operators, telecommunication suppliers and other distributors, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations. For example, legislators and regulators continue to consider rules that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an à la carte basis, which would allow viewers to subscribe to individual networks rather than a package of networks, and/or require programmers to sell channels to distributors on an à la carte basis. Certain cable television operators and other distributors have already introduced tiers and/or OTT offerings, or more targeted network packages, to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. The unbundling of programming could reduce distribution of certain of our networks, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses and affecting our ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising sales or distribution fees. 

We could be subject to material liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and policies. 

We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and policies in federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate and may be subject to significant change. In addition, our tax returns may be audited, and settlements or litigation may occur. Such changes, audit settlements or litigation may result in the recognition of an additional charge to our income tax provision in the period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or require additional cash payments, which may impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 

Changes in economic conditions in the United States, globally and in the regions in which we operate or in specific industry sectors could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. 

Approximately 83.9 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2017 were derived from marketing and advertising spending in the United States, and approximately 13.9 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2017 were derived from marketing and advertising spending in Poland, including revenues from our advertising representation business. Advertising and marketing spending is sensitive to economic conditions and tends to decline in recessionary periods. A global or regional economic decline could reduce advertising prices and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. 

Our business is significantly affected by prevailing economic conditions and by disruptions to financial markets. We derive substantial revenues from advertisers, and these expenditures are sensitive to general economic conditions and consumer buying patterns. Financial instability or a general decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed could adversely affect advertising rates and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. 

Decreases in consumer discretionary spending in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed may affect cable television and other video service subscriptions, in particular with respect to digital service tiers on which certain of our programming networks are carried. This could lead to a decrease in the number of subscribers receiving our programming from multi-channel video programming distributors, which could have a negative impact on our viewing subscribers and revenues from distribution fees. Similarly, a decrease in viewing subscribers would also have a negative impact on the number of viewers actually watching the programs on our programming networks, which could also impact the rates we are able to charge advertisers. 

14 

Economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide and impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks. Economic conditions can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. The general worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and the worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world could impact the expansion or success of our businesses in such areas. 

Our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. 

Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than U.S. law. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S., and these differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business and our rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. law.  

Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. In addition, the business and political climate in some jurisdictions may encourage corruption, which could reduce our ability to compete successfully in those jurisdictions while remaining in compliance with local laws or U.S. anti-corruption laws applicable to our businesses. As a result, our ability to generate revenues and our expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law governed these operations. 

Increased costs associated with programming may adversely impact our ability to profitably produce new content. 

Our business relies on our ability to profitably produce quality programming that is widely accepted by our target demographics. Our core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of lifestyle content. Our investments in original programming and development can be significant and involve complex negotiations with multiple parties. These costs may not be recouped when the content is broadcast or distributed, and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. Increased competition from new entrants into the market for development and production of original programming increases our content costs, as creating competing high quality, original content can require significant investment.  

We may incur additional debt in the future. Such debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments. 

We currently depend on cash on hand and cash flows from operations to make scheduled principal and cash interest payments on our debt. We expect to be able to meet the estimated principal and interest payments on our debt through a combination of cash on hand, expected cash flows from operations and the use of our revolving credit facility. Additionally, we may incur further debt in the future for other corporate purposes.  

Increased volatility and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial and equity markets may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing. Our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent ratings agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A low rating could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing. Unforeseeable changes in foreign currencies could negatively impact our results of operations thereby adversely affecting interest coverage and leverage ratio calculations.  

Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  

We have significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of our operations are conducted in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. Dollar (“USD”). As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. As a result, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and net asset  

15 

balances. There is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain unchanged in any period or for any specific market.  

The concentrated ownership of our Common Voting Shares limits the ability of the holders of our Class A Common Shares to influence corporate matters.  

We have two classes of common stock: Common Voting Shares and Class A Common Shares. Holders of Class A Common Shares are entitled to elect the greater of three or one-third of the members of the Board of Directors (the “Board”), but are not permitted to vote on any other matters except as required by Ohio law. Holders of Common Voting Shares are entitled to elect the remainder of the Board and to vote on all other matters. Approximately 92 percent of the Common Voting Shares are subject to the Amended and Restated Scripps Family Agreement (the “Scripps Family Agreement”). The provisions of the Scripps Family Agreement fully govern the transfer and voting of Common Voting Shares subject to the agreement. As a result, the holders of the Common Voting Shares subject to the Scripps Family Agreement currently have the ability to elect two-thirds of the Board and to direct the outcome of any matter that does not require a vote of the Class A Common Shares. Additionally, some of the signatories to the Scripps Family Agreement are also directors of the Company, which could create conflicts of interest in certain situations. This concentrated control limits the ability of the holders of Class A Common Shares to influence corporate matters and could potentially enable the Company to take actions that these shareholders would not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A Common Shares could be adversely affected. 

Risks Related to the Transaction with Discovery  

On July 30, 2017, Discovery, Scripps, and Merger Sub entered into the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement provides for the Merger, which has increased our exposure to non-business related risks associated with the potential loss of shareholder value due to increased market speculation in connection with the future Merger. Additionally, there is increased risk of loss of key employees and talent during the pre-close and post transition periods. 

The transaction is subject to certain conditions, including conditions that may not be satisfied or completed on a timely basis, if at all.  

The Merger was approved unanimously by the Board of Directors of both Scripps and Discovery and is subject to review by regulatory authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. The Merger Agreement is also subject to a number of conditions, including, among other things and as further described in the Merger Agreement: (i) obtaining certain Required Governmental Consents (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (ii) the absence of specified adverse laws or orders, (iii) the Discovery Series C Shares being approved for listing on the NASDAQ Stock Market, (iv) the representations and warranties of the Company and Discovery being true and correct, subject to the materiality standards contained in the Merger Agreement, (v) the parties having complied in all material respects with their respective obligations under the Merger Agreement and (vi) no Company Material Adverse Effect or Discovery Material Adverse Effect (each as defined in the Merger Agreement) having occurred since signing of the Merger Agreement. On October 19, 2017, the SEC declared the registration statement on Form S-4 relating to the Merger effective, and on November 17, 2017, the shareholders of Scripps approved the Merger and adoption of the Merger Agreement, while the shareholders of Discovery approved the issuance of the Series C Shares by Discovery in connection with the Merger, each satisfying an additional condition to the closing of the transaction. Further, there can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the Merger will be satisfied or waived or that the transaction will be completed.  

Uncertainties associated with the transaction may cause employees to leave Discovery and/or Scripps and may otherwise affect the future business and operations of Discovery after the transaction.  

Discovery’s success after the transaction will depend in part upon its ability to retain key employees of Discovery and Scripps. Prior to and following the completion of the Merger, current and prospective employees of Discovery and Scripps may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Discovery and choose to pursue other opportunities, which could have an adverse effect on Discovery after the transaction. If key employees depart, the integration of Scripps with Discovery may be more difficult, and Discovery’s business following the completion of the Merger may be adversely affected. 

16 

In order to complete the Merger, Discovery and Scripps must obtain certain governmental approvals, and if such approvals are not granted or are granted with conditions, completion of the Merger may be jeopardized or the anticipated benefits of the transaction could be reduced.  

Completion of the Merger is conditioned upon the expiration or early termination of the waiting periods relating to the Merger under the HSR Act and the required governmental authorizations having been obtained and being in full force and effect, including approval by the EC pursuant to the Council Regulation No. 139/2004 of the European Community, (“EC Merger Regulation”), as well as Jersey Competition Regulatory Authority, referred to as the “JCRA”, pursuant to the Competition (Jersey) Law 2005. Further, as Discovery and Scripps both operate in the media and broadcasting sector, completion of the Merger is also conditioned upon the receipt of all necessary consents from the Irish Competition and Consumer Protection Commission and the Austrian Federal Competition Authority. To date, Discovery and Scripps have obtained the required governmental authorizations from the EC and the JCRA and the necessary consent from the Austrian Federal Competition Authority. 

Although Discovery and Scripps have agreed in the Merger Agreement to use their reasonable best efforts, subject to certain limitations, to make certain governmental filings and obtain the required governmental approvals or expiration or earlier termination of relevant waiting periods, as the case may be, there can be no assurance that the relevant waiting periods will expire or be terminated early or that the relevant approvals will be obtained. In addition, the governmental entities that provide these approvals have broad discretion in administering the governing regulations. As a condition to approving the Merger or related transactions, these governmental entities may impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of Discovery’s business after completion of the Merger. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Discovery and its subsidiaries are required to take any and all actions necessary to obtain the consents, approvals, permits, expirations of waiting periods and authorizations of any governmental entity required to consummate the transaction, except those actions which would result in, or would be reasonably likely to result in, either individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on Discovery, Scripps, and their respective subsidiaries, taken as a whole, after giving effect to the Merger. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying the completion of the Merger or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the transaction, or otherwise adversely affecting Discovery’s businesses and results of operations after the completion of the Merger. In addition, Discovery and Scripps can provide no assurance that these conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the transaction.  

Although Discovery and Scripps believe that the transaction does not raise substantial regulatory concerns and that all remaining regulatory approvals will be obtained on a timely basis, Discovery and Scripps cannot be certain when, if or under what conditions these approvals will be obtained. Failure to obtain such approvals may result in the delay or abandonment of the transaction.  

Even after the waiting periods under the HSR Act have expired and regulatory approvals that are a condition to the completion of the Merger have been obtained, Discovery and Scripps can provide no assurances that the transaction will not be challenged. Governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the transaction, including after the completion of the Merger. In addition, private parties and individual states may bring legal actions under the antitrust laws in certain circumstances. Discovery and Scripps may not prevail and may incur significant costs in settling or defending any action under the antitrust laws. Although the parties believe the completion of the Merger will not likely be prevented by antitrust laws, there can be no assurances that a challenge to the transaction on antitrust grounds will not be made or, if a challenge is made, what the result will be.  

Failure to complete the transaction may negatively impact the share price and the future business and financial results of Scripps.  

If the transaction is not completed for any reason, the ongoing businesses of Scripps may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the transaction, Scripps would be subject to a number of risks, including the following:  

•  

Scripps may experience adverse reactions from the financial markets, including negative impacts on its stock prices; 

17 

•  

Scripps may experience negative reactions from its customers, regulators and employees;  

•  

Scripps will be required to pay certain costs relating to the Merger, whether or not the Merger is completed; and  

•  

Matters relating to the Merger (including integration planning) will require substantial commitments of time and resources by Scripps management, which would otherwise have been devoted to day-to-day operations and other opportunities that may have been beneficial to Scripps as an independent company.  

If the transaction is not completed, the risks described above may materialize and may adversely affect Scripps’ businesses, financial condition, financial results and stock price.  

In addition, Scripps could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the transaction or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against Scripps to perform their respective obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the transaction is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect Scripps’ businesses, financial condition, financial results and stock prices.  

While the transaction is pending, Scripps will be subject to business uncertainties, as well as contractual restrictions under the Merger Agreement, that may have an adverse effect on the businesses of Scripps.  

Uncertainty about the effect of the transaction on Scripps’ employees and business relationships may have an adverse effect on Scripps and, consequently, on Discovery following the completion of the Merger. These uncertainties may impair Scripps’ ability to retain and motivate key personnel until and after the completion of the Merger and may cause third parties who deal with Scripps to seek to change existing business relationships with Scripps. If key employees depart or if third parties seek to change business relationships with Scripps, Discovery’s business following the completion of the Merger may be adversely affected.  

In addition, the Merger Agreement contains customary covenants which restrict Scripps, without Discovery’s consent, from taking certain specified actions until the transaction closes or the Merger Agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent Scripps from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement.  

Scripps will incur significant transaction and Merger-related integration costs in connection with the transaction.  

Scripps expects to pay significant transaction costs in connection with the transaction. These transaction costs include legal, accounting, tax and financial advisory expenses, SEC filing fees, printing expenses, mailing costs and other related charges. A portion of the transaction costs will be incurred regardless of whether the transaction is completed.  

In accordance with the Merger Agreement, Scripps will generally pay its own costs and expenses in connection with the transaction, whether or not the transaction is completed. Additionally, Scripps has the right to terminate the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances. 

Uncertainty regarding the transaction could cause business partners, customers and other counterparties to delay or defer decisions concerning Scripps that could adversely affect the company.  

The transaction will occur only if stated conditions are met, many of which are outside the control of Scripps. In addition, both parties to the Merger Agreement have rights to terminate the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances. Accordingly, there may be uncertainty regarding the completion of the Merger. This uncertainty may cause business partners, customers and other counterparties to delay or defer decisions concerning Scripps’ businesses, which could negatively affect their respective businesses, results of operations and financial conditions. Business partners, customers and other counterparties may also seek to change existing agreements with Scripps as a result of the transaction. Any delay or deferral of those decisions or changes in agreements with Scripps could  

18 

adversely affect the respective businesses, results of operations and financial conditions of Scripps, regardless of whether the transaction is ultimately completed. 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None. 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES