PART I  

ITEM 1. Business  

The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries, is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in five business segments: Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Studio Entertainment, Consumer Products and Interactive Media. For convenience, the terms “Company” and “we” are used to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are actually conducted. On December 31, 2009, the Company completed an acquisition of Marvel Entertainment, Inc. (Marvel). See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Marvel businesses are reported primarily in our Studio Entertainment and Consumer Products segments.  

Information on the Company’s revenues, operating income, and identifiable assets appears in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. The Company employed approximately 156,000 people as of October 1, 2011.  

MEDIA NETWORKS  

The Media Networks segment is comprised of international and domestic cable networks and our broadcasting business, which consists of a domestic broadcast television network, television production operations, domestic and international television distribution, domestic television stations, domestic and international broadcast radio networks, domestic radio stations, and publishing and digital operations.  

Cable Networks  

Our cable networks group operates the ESPN, Disney Channels Worldwide, ABC Family and SOAPnet networks. The cable networks group produces its own programs or acquires rights from third parties to air on our networks. The Company also has interests in joint ventures that operate programming services and are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  

Cable networks derive a majority of their revenues from fees charged to cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers (Multi-channel Video Service Providers or MVSPs) and, for certain networks (primarily ESPN and ABC Family), the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements. Generally, the Company’s cable networks operate under multi-year carriage agreements with MVSPs that include contractually determined fees. The amounts that we can charge to MVSPs for our cable network services are largely dependent on competition and the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. We also sell programming developed by our cable networks to third parties worldwide in pay and syndication markets, in DVD format and also online to third party services.  

1  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s significant cable networks and our ownership percentage and estimated subscribers as of October 1, 2011 are set forth in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Estimated U.S. subscriber counts according to Nielsen Media Research as of September 2011, except as noted below  

 (2)   ESPN and A&E programming is distributed internationally through other networks discussed below.  

 (3)   Subscriber counts are not rated by Nielsen and are based on internal management reports.  

ESPN  

ESPN is a multimedia, multinational sports entertainment company that operates eight 24-hour domestic television sports networks: ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNEWS, ESPN Classic, ESPN Deportes (a Spanish language network), ESPNU (a network devoted to college sports), ESPN 3D (a 3D service), and the regionally focused Longhorn Network (a network dedicated to The University of Texas athletics). ESPN also operates five high-definition television simulcast services, ESPN HD, ESPN2 HD, ESPNEWS HD, ESPNU HD, and ESPN Deportes HD. ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ESPN owns, has equity interests in or has distribution agreements with 47 international sports networks reaching households in more than 200 countries and territories in 16 languages including a live sports network in the UK. ESPN holds a 50% equity interest in ESPN Star Sports, which distributes sports programming throughout most of Asia, and a 30% equity interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc., which owns The Sports Network, The Sports Network 2, Le Réseau des Sports, ESPN Classic Canada, the NHL Network and Discovery Canada.  

ESPN holds rights for various professional and college sports programming including, NFL, NBA, the SEC, ACC and Pac 12 college football and basketball conferences, NASCAR and MLB.  

ESPN also operates:  

   •    ESPN.com - which delivers comprehensive sports news, information and video each month through its national hub and five local sites – ESPNBoston.com, ESPNChicago.com, ESPNDallas.com, ESPNLosAngeles.com and ESPNNewYork.com  

   •    ESPN3 - which is a broadband service available to 70 million subscribers that delivers more than 4,000 live events  

   •    ESPN Mobile Properties - which delivers content, including live game coverage, alerts and highlights, to mobile service providers  

   •    ESPN Regional Television - which is a syndicator of collegiate sports programming  

2  

Table of Contents 

   •    The ESPN Radio Network and four owned ESPN Radio stations  

   •    ESPN The Magazine  

   •    ESPN Enterprises - which develops branded licensing opportunities  

The Company holds a 15% interest in The Active Network, Inc., a domestic online community and marketing platform for individuals and event organizers to participate in and promote sports and recreational activities.  

The ESPN Radio Network is carried on more than 750 stations, making it the largest sports radio network in the United States. We own four of the stations and 355 are operated full-time.  

Disney Channels Worldwide  

Disney Channel Disney Channel is a 24-hour cable network airing original series and movie programming targeted to children and families. Shows developed and produced internally for exhibition on Disney Channel include live-action comedy series, animated programming and educational preschool series, as well as movies for the Disney Channel Original Movie franchise. Live-action comedy series include A.N.T. Farm, Good Luck Charlie, Jessie, Shake It Up, The Suite Life on Deck and Wizards of Waverly Place. Disney Channel also airs the animated programs, Phineas and Ferb and Fish Hooks. Original series for preschoolers include the animated series Disney’s Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Jake and the Never Land Pirates, and Special Agent Oso, as well as the live-action series Imagination Movers. Programming is also acquired from third parties and includes content from Disney’s theatrical film and television programming library.  

On November 18, 2011, the Company acquired a 49% ownership interest in the Seven TV network from UTH Russia Limited (UTH) for $300 million. The Seven TV network will be converted to an ad-supported, free-to-air Disney Channel in Russia.  

Disney Junior Disney Junior (formerly branded Playhouse Disney) provides learning-focused programming for preschoolers. In the U.S., the daily Disney Junior programming block is aired on the Disney Channel. Disney Junior is aired internationally on our channels in Latin America, Europe, Asia, Australia and Africa. Beginning in 2012, Disney Junior will also be a dedicated 24-hour basic channel in the United States for preschool-age children, parents and caregivers, featuring animated and live-action programming which blends Disney’s storytelling and characters with learning, including early math and language skills and featuring healthy eating, lifestyle, and social skills.  

Disney XD Disney XD has a mix of live-action and animated programming for kids ages 6-14, targeting boys and their quest for discovery, accomplishment, sports, adventure and humor. The programming includes original series such as Phineas and Ferb, Kick Buttowski, and the live-action series, Pair of Kings and Zeke and Luther, as well as movies and short-form content including sports-themed content developed with ESPN.  

In the U.S., Disney XD is seen on a 24-hour network. We also have XD channels in Latin America, Europe and Asia that distribute programming to approximately 130 countries/territories.  

Disney Cinemagic Disney Cinemagic is a premium subscription service in Europe. Disney Cinemagic shows Disney movies, classic and newer Disney cartoons and shorts as well as animated television series such as Disney’s House of Mouse, Lilo & Stitch: The Series, and Tarzan.  

Hungama Hungama is a kids general entertainment cable network in India which features a mix of anime, Hindi-language series and game shows.  

ABC Family  

ABC Family is a U.S. television programming service that targets the 15-34 demographic. ABC Family produces original programming including the returning series The Secret Life of the American Teenager, Make It or Break It, Melissa & Joey as well as new original series Switched at Birth. ABC Family also acquires programming including the returning series Pretty Little Liars and the new series The Lying Game. Additionally, ABC Family airs content from our owned theatrical film library. ABC Family also features branded programming holiday events such as “13 Nights of Halloween” and “25 Days of Christmas”.  

ABCFamily.com creates digital extensions to ABC Family programming that feature interactivity and social networking. The site also features user-generated content and online programming that can be downloaded and customized based on individual user preferences.  

3  

Table of Contents 

SOAPnet  

SOAPnet offers same-day episodes of daytime dramas at night and also original programming. Programming includes same-day episodes of daytime dramas such as Days of Our Lives, One Life to Live, General Hospital and The Young and the Restless and primetime series such as The O.C., One Tree Hill, Beverly Hills 90210, and The Gilmore Girls.  

Content related to SOAPnet’s programming is available on SOAPnet.com, including video extras, games, blogs, community forums, photos and downloadable content.  

AETN/Lifetime  

The A&E Television Networks (AETN) include A&E, HISTORY, The Biography Channel and History International. A&E offers entertainment ranging from reality series to original movies, dramatic series, and justice shows. HISTORY offers original non-fiction series and event-driven specials. The Biography Channel offers original series about prominent people and their lives, including the “Biography” series. History International focuses on the culture and history of various countries throughout the world from the perspective of locals. Internationally, A&E programming is available in over 150 countries through joint ventures and distribution agreements with affiliates.  

Lifetime Entertainment Services (Lifetime) includes Lifetime Television, Lifetime Movie Network and Lifetime Real Women. Lifetime Television is devoted to women’s lifestyle programming. Lifetime Movie Network is a 24-hour movie channel. Lifetime Real Women is a 24-hour cable network with programming from a woman’s point of view.  

The Company’s share of the financial results of the combined entity, AETN/Lifetime, is reported as “Equity in the income of investees” in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income.  

Radio Disney  

Radio Disney is a 24/7 radio network for kids, tweens and families. Radio Disney is available on 34 terrestrial radio stations, 31 of which we own, and on RadioDisney.com, SiriusXM satellite radio, iTunes Radio Tuner, XM/DIRECTV and mobile phones. Radio Disney programming can be downloaded via the iTunes Music Store. Radio Disney is also available throughout most of South America via a separate Spanish language terrestrial broadcast.  

UTV  

The Company holds an approximate 50% direct interest in UTV Software Communications Limited (UTV), a media company headquartered and publicly traded in India that is accounted for as an unconsolidated equity investment. Results from this investment are included in the Media Networks segment.  

On July 25, 2011, the UTV board of directors approved a proposal submitted by the Company to acquire the publicly held shares of UTV through a delisting offer process. Subsequently, the UTV shareholders approved the delisting of UTV’s equity shares from the Indian stock exchanges. The delisting process is governed by Indian law and will, if completed, involve an offer by the Company to acquire shares publicly traded on the Indian stock exchanges at a price determined through the offer process. The transaction is subject to, among other things, Indian regulatory approval and the Company’s acceptance of the price per share that results from the delisting offer process. If completed, the Company’s interest in UTV would increase to at least 90% and result in a delisting of UTV’s shares. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof.  

Broadcasting  

Domestic Broadcast Television Network  

The Company operates the ABC Television Network, which as of October 1, 2011, had affiliation agreements with 238 local stations reaching 99% of all U.S. television households. The ABC Television Network broadcasts programs in the following “dayparts”: daytime, primetime, late night, news, and sports.  

The ABC Television Network produces its own programs or acquires rights from third parties, as well as entities that are owned by or affiliated with the Company. The ABC Television Network derives the majority of its revenues from the sale to advertisers of time in network programs for commercial announcements. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand for time on network broadcasts. The ABC Television Network also receives fees for its broadcast feed from some of its affiliated stations and pays varying amounts of compensation to some of its affiliated stations.  

4  

Table of Contents 

ABC.com is the official web site of the ABC Television Network and provides access to full-length episodes of ABC shows online. ABCNews.com provides in-depth worldwide news coverage online. ABCNews.com also offers broadband subscriptions to the 24-hour live internet news channel, ABC News Now and to video-on-demand news reports from all ABC News broadcasts.  

Television Production  

The Company produces programming under the ABC Studios and ABC Media Productions labels. Program development is carried out in collaboration with independent writers, producers, and creative teams, with a focus on half-hour comedies and one-hour dramas, primarily for primetime broadcasts. Primetime programming produced either for our networks or for third parties in the 2011/2012 television season include the returning one-hour dramas Army Wives, Body of Proof, Castle, Criminal Minds, Desperate Housewives, Grey’s Anatomy, and Private Practice; the returning half-hour comedies Cougar Town and Happy Endings; and new primetime series that premiere in the 2011/2012 season which include the one-hour dramas Once Upon a Time and Revenge as well as the half-hour comedy Man Up!. Additionally, Good Christian Belles, Missing, Scandal, and The River are in production for mid-season. Castle entered the domestic syndication market during 2011 with the show becoming available beginning in 2012. We also produce Jimmy Kimmel Live for late night and a variety of primetime specials for network television and live-action syndicated programming. Syndicated programming includes Live! with Regis and Kelly, a daily talk show, and Who Wants to Be a Millionaire, a game show. The Company also produces news programming including World News with Diane Sawyer, Good Morning America, 20/20 and Nightline and programming for Daytime such as The View and General Hospital.  

We also distribute the Company’s productions worldwide in pay and syndication markets, in DVD format and also online via Company internet sites such as ABC.com and to third party services. Our distribution groups also distribute programming aired on our cable networks.  

Domestic Television Stations  

The Company owns eight television stations, six of which are located in the top-ten markets in the United States. The television stations derive the majority of their revenues from the sale to advertisers of time in television station programs for commercial announcements and also receive retransmission fees charged to MVSPs. All of our television stations are affiliated with the ABC Television Network and collectively reach 23% of the nation’s television households. Each owned station broadcasts three digital channels: the first consists of local, ABC Television Network, and syndicated programming; the second is the Live Well Network broadcast in standard definition; and the third is the Live Well Network broadcast in high definition.  

Live Well Network provides programming focusing on lifestyle topics such as interior design, healthy cooking, and outdoor activities. Live Well Network currently reaches 42% of the nation’s households through our owned stations and affiliates.  

Markets and details for the stations we own are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2011  

In April 2011, the Company sold TV stations in the Flint, Michigan and Toledo, Ohio markets.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s Media Networks businesses compete for viewers primarily with other television and cable networks, independent television stations and other media, such as DVDs, video games and the internet. With respect to the sale of advertising time, our broadcasting operations, certain of our cable networks and our television and radio stations compete with other television networks and radio stations, independent television stations, MVSPs and other advertising media such as newspapers, magazines, billboards, and the internet. Our television and radio stations primarily compete for viewers in individual market areas. A television or radio station in one market generally does not compete directly with stations in other markets.  

The growth in the number of networks distributed by MVSPs has resulted in increased competitive pressures for advertising revenues for both our broadcasting and cable networks. The Company’s cable networks also face competition from other cable networks for carriage by MVSPs. The Company’s contractual agreements with MVSPs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various cable programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.  

The Company’s Media Networks businesses also compete for the acquisition of sports and other programming. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for sports programming. The Company currently has sports rights agreements with the National Football League (NFL), college football (including college bowl games) and basketball conferences, National Basketball Association (NBA), National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing (NASCAR), Major League Baseball (MLB), World Cup and various soccer leagues, and Golf and Tennis Associations.  

The Company’s internet web sites and digital products compete with other web sites and entertainment products in their respective categories.  

Advertising revenues at the Media Networks are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate revenues are typically collected ratably throughout the year. Certain affiliate revenues at ESPN are deferred until annual programming commitments are met, and these commitments are typically satisfied during the second half of the Company’s fiscal year, which generally results in higher revenue recognition during this period.  

Federal Regulation  

Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect our Media Networks segment include the following:  

   •    Licensing of television and radio stations. Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. We (or the acquiring entity in the case of a divestiture) must also obtain FCC approval whenever we seek to have a license transferred in connection with the acquisition or divestiture of a station. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances. Although we have generally received such renewals and approvals in the past, there can be no assurance that we will always obtain necessary renewals and approvals in the future.  

   •    Television and radio station ownership limits. The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations we can own in a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations we can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations we own. Currently:  

   •    FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market. We do not own more than one television station in any of the markets in which we own a television station.  

   •    Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience (for this purpose, FCC regulations attribute to UHF television stations only 50% of the television households in their market). For purposes of the FCC’s rules, our eight stations reach approximately 21% of the national audience.  

   •    FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own radio stations, but we do not believe any such limitations are material to our current operating plans.  

6  

Table of Contents 

   •    Dual networks. FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major television networks — ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC — from being under common ownership or control.  

   •    Regulation of programming. The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning “indecent” programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children’s programming. Broadcasters face a heightened risk of being found in violation of the indecency prohibition by the FCC because of recent FCC decisions, coupled with the spontaneity of live programming. In the past several years, the FCC increased enforcement activities with respect to indecency, and a number of significant indecency cases against various broadcasters remain pending in the courts. Moreover, the penalties for broadcasting indecent programming are a maximum of $325,000 per violation.  

   •    Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, broadcast channels are generally required to provide a minimum of three hours per week of programming that has as a “significant purpose” meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also give television station owners the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance.  

   •    Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations. With respect to cable systems operating within a television station’s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either “must carry” status, pursuant to which cable operators generally must carry a local television station in the station’s market, or “retransmission consent” status, pursuant to which the cable operator must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal. Under the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act and its successors, including most recently the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA), which also requires the “must carry” or “retransmission consent” election, satellite carriers are permitted to retransmit a local television station’s signal into its local market with the consent of the local television station. Under must carry, if a satellite carrier elects to carry one local station in a market, the satellite carrier must carry the signals of all local television stations that also request carriage.  

   •    Digital television. Pursuant to FCC regulations, all of the Company’s stations now operate exclusively on digital channels.  

   •    Cable and satellite carriage of programming. The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations regarding cable and satellite retransmission consent, and some cable and satellite companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on cable and satellite systems. Litigation has been instituted against the Company, other program providers and distributors seeking among other things to achieve similar ends. New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could, depending on its specific nature, have an impact on the Company’s operations.  

The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act and other legislation and of specific FCC rules and policies. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, other legislation, FCC rules and public notices and rulings of the FCC for further information concerning the nature and extent of the FCC’s regulatory authority.  

FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation, court action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations.  

PARKS AND RESORTS  

The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida, the Disneyland Resort in California, Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa in Hawaii, the Disney Vacation Club, the Disney Cruise Line, and Adventures by Disney. The Company manages and has effective ownership interests of 51% in Disneyland Paris, 47% in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, and 43% in Shanghai Disney Resort. The Company also licenses the operations of the Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan. The Company’s Walt Disney Imagineering unit designs and develops new theme park concepts and attractions as well as resort properties.  

The businesses in the Parks and Resorts segment generate revenues predominately from the sale of admissions to the theme parks; charges for room nights at the hotels; merchandise, food and beverage sales; sales and rentals of vacation club properties; and sales of cruise vacations. Costs consist principally of labor; depreciation; costs of merchandise, food and beverage sold; marketing and sales expense; repairs and maintenance; and entertainment.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Walt Disney World Resort  

The Walt Disney World Resort is located 22 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 acres of owned land. The resort includes theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney’s Hollywood Studios and Disney’s Animal Kingdom); hotels; vacation club properties; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; a sports complex; conference centers; campgrounds; golf courses; water parks; and other recreational facilities designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.  

The Walt Disney World Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of attractions in each of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.  

Magic Kingdom — The Magic Kingdom, which opened in 1971, consists of six themed lands: Main Street USA, Adventureland, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Liberty Square, and Tomorrowland. Each land provides a unique guest experience featuring themed rides and attractions, live Disney character interaction, restaurants, refreshment areas and merchandise shops. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza, Wishes. Fantasyland is undergoing an expansion that will nearly double its size and add new attractions and other guest offerings. The project is scheduled to be completed in phases through 2014.  

Epcot — Epcot, which opened in 1982, consists of two major themed areas: Future World and World Showcase. Future World dramatizes certain historical developments and addresses the challenges facing the world today through major pavilions devoted to showcasing science and technology improvements, communication, energy, transportation, using your imagination, nature and food production, the ocean environment and space. World Showcase presents a community of nations focusing on the culture, traditions and accomplishments of people around the world. Countries represented with pavilions include the United States, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway and the United Kingdom. Both areas feature themed rides and attractions, restaurants and merchandise shops. Epcot also features Illuminations: Reflections of Earth, a nighttime entertainment spectacular.  

Disney’s Hollywood Studios — Disney’s Hollywood Studios, which opened in 1989, consists of four themed areas: Hollywood Boulevard, Sunset Boulevard, Animation Courtyard, and Backlot. The four areas blend together as a large movie set and provide behind-the-scenes glimpses of Hollywood-style action based on movies and TV shows. The park provides various shows, attractions, themed food service and merchandise facilities. Disney’s Hollywood Studios also features Fantasmic!, a nighttime entertainment spectacular.  

Disney’s Animal Kingdom — Disney’s Animal Kingdom, which opened in 1998, consists of a 145-foot Tree of Life centerpiece surrounded by six themed areas: Dinoland U.S.A., Africa, Rafiki’s Planet Watch, Asia, Discovery Island and Camp Minnie-Mickey. Each themed area contains adventure attractions, entertainment shows, restaurants and merchandise shops. The park features more than 300 species of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of trees and plants. In September 2011, the Company announced an agreement with James Cameron’s Lightstorm Entertainment and Fox Filmed Entertainment for the exclusive global theme park rights to create themed lands based on the AVATAR franchise. The Company plans to build an AVATAR themed land at Walt Disney’s Animal Kingdom.  

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities – As of October 1, 2011, the Company owned and operated 17 resort hotels at the Walt Disney World Resort, with a total of approximately 22,000 rooms and 468,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, Disney’s Fort Wilderness camping and recreational area offers approximately 800 campsites. In May 2010, the Company announced plans to open Walt Disney World Resort’s eighteenth hotel, Disney’s Art of Animation Resort, which will add nearly 2,000 rooms by the end of 2012 including 1,120 family suites. The resort will be themed after the animated films The Little Mermaid, The Lion King, Finding Nemo and Cars.  

The Walt Disney World Resort also hosts a 120-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex known as Downtown Disney, which consists of the Marketplace, West Side and Pleasure Island. Downtown Disney is home to the 51,000-square-foot World of Disney retail store featuring Disney-branded merchandise, Cirque du Soleil, the House of Blues, and the Company’s DisneyQuest facility. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company. In September 2008, the Company commenced a multi-year project to enhance Pleasure Island, which will feature new shopping and dining experiences to entertain guests of all ages.  

ESPN Wide World of Sports is a 220-acre sports complex providing professional caliber training and competition, festival and tournament events and interactive sports activities. The complex, which hosts over 200 amateur and professional events each year, accommodates multiple sporting events, including baseball, tennis, basketball, softball, track and field, football and soccer. Its stadium, which has a seating capacity of approximately 9,500, is the spring training site for MLB’s Atlanta Braves.  

8  

Table of Contents 

In the Downtown Disney Resort area, seven independently-operated hotels are situated on property leased from the Company. These hotels include approximately 3,700 rooms. Additionally, the Walt Disney World Swan and the Walt Disney World Dolphin hotels, which have approximately 2,300 total rooms, are independently operated on property leased from the Company near Epcot.  

Other recreational amenities and activities available at the Walt Disney World Resort include four championship golf courses, miniature golf courses, full-service spas, tennis, sailing, water skiing, swimming, horseback riding and a number of other noncompetitive sports and leisure time activities. The resort also includes two water parks: Blizzard Beach and Typhoon Lagoon.  

Disneyland Resort  

The Company owns 461 acres and has the rights under long-term lease for use of an additional 49 acres of land in Anaheim, California. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney California Adventure), three hotels and Downtown Disney, a retail, dining and entertainment complex designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.  

The entire Disneyland Resort is marketed as a destination resort through international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of the attractions and restaurants at both of the theme parks are sponsored by other corporations through long-term agreements.  

Disneyland — Disneyland, which opened in 1955, consists of eight principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Main Street USA, New Orleans Square, Tomorrowland and Toontown. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disneyland offers daily parades and a nighttime entertainment spectacular, Fantasmic!.  

Disney California Adventure — Disney California Adventure, which opened in 2001, is adjacent to Disneyland and includes four principal areas: Golden State, Hollywood Pictures Backlot, Paradise Pier and “a bug’s land”. These areas include rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disney California Adventure offers a nighttime water spectacular, World of Color, the first major element of the multi-year expansion that adds new entertainment and family-oriented attractions, including Cars Land, a 12-acre themed area inspired by the animated film Cars, which is scheduled to open in summer 2012.  

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities — Disneyland Resort includes three Company-owned and operated hotels with a total of approximately 2,400 rooms, 50 vacation club units, and 180,000 square feet of conference meeting space.  

Disneyland Resort also includes Downtown Disney, a themed 15-acre outdoor complex of entertainment, dining and shopping venues, located adjacent to both Disneyland Park and Disney California Adventure. A number of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent and license fees to the Company.  

Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa  

In August 2011 the Company opened its first mixed-use family resort outside of its theme park developments on a 21-acre oceanfront property on Oahu, Hawaii. Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa features 359 hotel rooms, an 18,000 square foot spa and 12,000 square feet of conference meeting space. The resort is also home to a 481 unit Disney Vacation Club facility that is being constructed in phases. As of October 1, 2011, 207 vacation club units had been completed.  

Disneyland Paris  

The Company has a 51% effective ownership interest in Disneyland Paris, a 5,510-acre development located in Marne-la-Vallée, approximately 20 miles east of Paris, France, which has been developed pursuant to a master agreement with French governmental authorities. The Company manages and has a 40% equity interest in Euro Disney S.C.A., a publicly-traded French entity that is the holding company for Euro Disney Associés S.C.A., the primary operating company of Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A. and its subsidiaries operate Disneyland Paris, which includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park); seven themed hotels; convention centers; a shopping, dining and entertainment complex; and a 27-hole golf facility. Of the 5,510 acres comprising the site, approximately half have been developed to date, including the Val d’Europe development discussed below. An indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Disneyland Paris. Euro Disney S.C.A. is required to pay royalties and management fees to the Company based on the operating performance of the resort.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Disneyland Park — Disneyland Park, which opened in 1992, consists of five principal themed areas: Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland, Frontierland, and Main Street. These areas include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Disneyland Park also features a daily parade.  

Walt Disney Studios Park — Walt Disney Studios Park opened in March 2002 adjacent to Disneyland Park. The park takes guests into the worlds of cinema, animation and television and includes four principal themed areas: Front Lot, Toon Studios, Production Courtyard and Backlot. These areas each include themed rides, attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.  

Hotels and Other Facilities — Disneyland Paris operates seven resort hotels, with a total of approximately 5,800 rooms and 250,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, several on-site hotels that are owned and operated by third parties provide approximately 2,400 rooms.   

Disneyland Paris also includes Disney Village, a retail, dining and entertainment complex of approximately 500,000 square feet, located between the theme parks and the hotels. A number of the Disney Village facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to a subsidiary of Euro Disney S.C.A.  

Val d’Europe is a planned community that is being developed near Disneyland Paris. The completed phases of the development include: a town center, which consists of a shopping center; a 150-room hotel; office, commercial, and residential space; and a regional train station. Third parties operate these developments on land leased or purchased from Euro Disney S.C.A. and its subsidiaries.  

In fiscal 2005, Euro Disney S.C.A. completed a financial restructuring, which provided for an increase in capital and refinancing of its borrowings. Pursuant to the financial restructuring, the Company agreed to conditionally and unconditionally defer certain management fees and royalties and convert them into long-term subordinated debt and provide a ten-year line of credit, with a current limit of €100 million for liquidity needs.  

In fiscal 2010, Euro Disney S.C.A signed an amendment to the master agreement entered into between the Company and French governmental authorities in 1987 for the creation and operation of the resort. This amendment extends the duration of the agreement from 2017 to 2030. In addition, the amendment provides for updated land entitlements that allow Euro Disney S.C.A to develop, in partnership with Groupe Pierre & Vacances Center Parcs, Les Villages Nature de Val d’Europe, an innovative eco-tourism project.  

Hong Kong Disneyland Resort  

The Company owns a 47% interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort through Hongkong International Theme Parks Limited, an entity in which the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) owns a 53% majority interest. A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.  

Located on 311 acres on Lantau Island, the resort is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes one theme park and two themed hotels.  

Hong Kong Disneyland – Hong Kong Disneyland opened in 2005 and consists of the following themed areas: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Main Street USA, Tomorrowland and Toy Story Land. These areas feature themed rides and attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza.  

Hotels – Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels with a total of 1,000 rooms.  

In July 2009, the Company and the HKSAR agreed to a capital realignment and expansion plan for Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. The expansion, which is scheduled to be completed in phases by 2013, will bring three new themed areas to Hong Kong Disneyland: Toy Story Land, which opened in November 2011; Grizzly Gulch and Mystic Point. Pursuant to the plan, the Company converted a loan to Hong Kong Disneyland Resort into equity and to date, has made additional capital contributions of $259 million and the HKSAR has contributed like amounts of capital by converting a portion of its loan to Hong Kong Disneyland Resort into equity. This has increased the Company’s effective ownership interest from 43% to 47% as of October 1, 2011. The Company expects to make additional capital contributions to fund the expansion of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Based on the operating performance of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort, the Company is entitled to receive royalties and management fees.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Shanghai Disney Resort  

On April 8, 2011, the Company and Shanghai Shendi (Group) Co., Ltd (Shendi) announced that the Chinese central government in Beijing had approved an agreement to build and operate a Disney resort (Shanghai Disney Resort) in the Pudong district of Shanghai. On opening day, the Shanghai Disney Resort will be located on roughly 1,000 acres, with additional room to expand in the future, and will include the Shanghai Disneyland theme park; two themed hotels with a total of 1,220 rooms; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; and an outdoor recreational area. Shanghai Disney Resort is currently targeted to open in approximately five years.  

Construction and operation of the project will be the responsibility of a joint venture in which Shendi owns a 57% interest and the Company owns 43%. Construction has commenced and we expect the total investment to be approximately 24.5 billion yuan to build the theme park and an additional 4.5 billion yuan to build other aspects of the resort, including the hotels and the retail, dining and entertainment area. The investment amounts will be funded in accordance with each partner’s equity ownership percentage. In addition, a joint venture management company has been formed which is responsible for creating, developing and operating the resort, with Disney having a 70% stake and Shendi owning 30%. The management company will be entitled to receive management fees based on project operations. In addition to the management fees and equity interest, the Company will earn royalties on revenues generated by the resort.  

Tokyo Disney Resort  

Tokyo Disney Resort is located on approximately 494 acres of land, six miles east of downtown Tokyo, Japan. The resort includes two theme parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea); three Disney-branded hotels; six independently operated hotels; and a retail, dining and entertainment complex.  

Tokyo Disneyland — Tokyo Disneyland, which opened in 1983, was the first Disney theme park to open outside the United States. Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven principal areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar.  

Tokyo DisneySea — Tokyo DisneySea, adjacent to Tokyo Disneyland, opened in 2001. The park is divided into seven “ports of call,” including Mediterranean Harbor, American Waterfront, Port Discovery, Lost River Delta, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island and Arabian Coast.  

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities - The resort includes three Disney-branded hotels with a total of more than 1,700 rooms. The resort also includes the Disney Resort Line monorail, which links theme parks and resort hotels with Ikspiari, a retail, dining and entertainment complex, and Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location.  

The Company earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. (OLC), a Japanese corporation in which the Company has no equity interest. OLC markets the Tokyo Disney Resort through a variety of local, domestic and international advertising and promotional activities.  

Disney Vacation Club  

The Disney Vacation Club offers ownership interests in 11 resort facilities located at the Walt Disney World Resort; Disneyland Resort; Vero Beach, Florida; Hilton Head Island, South Carolina; and Oahu, Hawaii. Available units at each facility are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as hotel rooms when not occupied by vacation club members. The Company’s vacation club units consist of a mix of units ranging from one bedroom studios to three bedroom villas. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two bedroom equivalents. Disney Vacation Club has 3,267 vacation club units as of October 1, 2011 and is scheduled to open an additional 274 units at Aulani, a 21-acre oceanfront resort on the island of Oahu, Hawaii. The resort, which opened its first phase in August 2011, also has a total of 359 traditional hotel rooms.  

Disney Cruise Line  

Disney Cruise Line, which is generally operated out of Port Canaveral, Florida and Port of Los Angeles, California, is a vacation cruise line that includes three ships: the Disney Magic, the Disney Wonder and the Disney Dream which launched in January 2011. The Company is constructing a fourth ship, the Disney Fantasy, which will launch in March 2012. The ships cater to children, families and adults, with distinctly-themed areas and activities for each group. The Disney Magic and the Disney Wonder are 85,000-ton ships which feature 877 staterooms, while the Disney Dream and the Disney Fantasy are 130,000 ton ships with 1,250 staterooms. Cruise vacations originating from Port Canaveral include a visit to Disney’s Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Adventures by Disney  

Adventures by Disney offers all-inclusive guided vacation tour packages predominantly at non-Disney sites around the world. The Company provided 22 excursion packages during 2011.  

Walt Disney Imagineering  

Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction, entertainment and show design, engineering support, production support, project management and other development services, including research and development for the Company’s operations.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s theme parks and resorts as well as Disney Cruise Line and Disney Vacation Club compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be influenced by various factors that are not directly controllable, such as economic conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices, and weather patterns and natural disasters.  

All of the theme parks and the associated resort facilities are operated on a year-round basis. Typically, the theme parks and resorts business experiences fluctuations in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and local entertainment excursions. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods.  

STUDIO ENTERTAINMENT  

The Studio Entertainment segment produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures, direct-to-video content, musical recordings and live stage plays.  

The Company distributes produced and acquired films (including its film and television library) in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets with a focus on Disney-branded films under the Walt Disney Pictures and Pixar banners and Marvel-branded films. The Company also distributes films under the Touchstone Pictures banner. Each of the market windows is discussed in more detail below.  

In August 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with DreamWorks Studios (“DreamWorks”) to distribute live-action motion pictures produced by DreamWorks over the next seven years under the Touchstone Pictures banner. Under the agreement, the Company distributed I Am Number Four, The Help and Fright Night in fiscal 2011. As part of the agreement, the Company provides certain financing, which as of October 1, 2011, totaled $153 million. There is an additional $90 million available that is largely dependent on DreamWorks obtaining additional equity financing.  

Prior to the Company’s acquisition, Marvel had agreements in place for third party studios to distribute its films including Iron Man, Iron Man 2, Thor, Captain America and The Incredible Hulk, which have all been released. Under these arrangements, the Company incurs the cost to produce the films and pays the third party studio a distribution fee. Beginning with The Avengers, which is scheduled for release in May 2012, the Company will distribute all Marvel produced films. In fiscal 2011, the Company purchased the distribution rights for The Avengers and Iron Man 3 from a third party studio and will pay certain fees to that studio associated with the performance of those films, subject to a minimum guarantee.  

The Company has also licensed the rights to produce and distribute feature films for certain other Marvel properties including Spider-Man, The Fantastic Four, and X-Men to third-party studios. Under these licensing arrangements, the third-party studio incurs the cost to produce and distribute the films and pays the Company a licensing fee. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, the Company completed a two-way transaction to simplify our relationship with Sony Pictures. In this transaction, the Company purchased Sony Pictures participation in Spider-Man merchandising, while at the same time, Sony Pictures purchased from the Company our participation in Spider-Man films. This transaction will allow the Company to control and fully benefit from all Spider-Man merchandising activity, while Sony Pictures will continue to produce and distribute Spider-Man films.  

On December 3, 2010, the Company sold Miramax Film NY, LLC (Miramax), which was one of its banners, for $663 million. Net proceeds which reflect closing adjustments, the settlement of related claims and obligations and Miramax’s cash balances at closing totaled $532 million. The sale included both Miramax and Dimension film assets.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Theatrical Market  

We generally produce and distribute live-action family films and full length animated films. During fiscal 2012, we expect to distribute domestically seven of our own produced feature films and four DreamWorks films. As of October 1, 2011, the Company had released domestically approximately 970 full-length live-action features, 90 full-length animated features, 550 cartoon shorts and 50 live action shorts.  

We distribute and market our filmed products principally through our own distribution and marketing companies in the U.S. theatrical market. In the international theatrical markets, we distribute our filmed products both directly and through independent distribution companies or joint ventures. Films released theatrically in the U.S. may be released simultaneously in international territories or generally up to four months later.  

The Company incurs significant marketing and advertising costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public’s intent to view the film and to help generate consumer interest in the subsequent home entertainment and other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred; therefore, we typically incur losses on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film.  

Home Entertainment Market  

In the domestic market, we distribute home entertainment releases directly under each of our motion picture banners. In the international market, we distribute home entertainment releases under each of our motion picture banners both directly and through independent foreign distribution companies. In addition, we acquire and produce original content for direct-to-video release.  

Domestic and international home entertainment distribution typically starts three to six months after the theatrical release in each market. The home entertainment releases may be distributed in both physical (DVD and Blu-Ray) and electronic versions. Most titles are sold simultaneously to retailers, such as Wal-Mart and Best Buy, and also Redbox and Netflix.  

As of October 1, 2011, we had approximately 1,700 active produced and acquired titles, including 1,300 live-action titles and 400 animated titles, in the domestic home entertainment marketplace and approximately 2,900 active produced and acquired titles, including 2,400 live-action titles and 500 animated titles, in the international marketplace.  

Television Market  

Pay-Per-View (PPV)/Video-on-Demand (VOD): Concurrently with, or up to two months after, home entertainment distribution begins, we license titles for use on a PPV/VOD basis, as well as for internet, console games, and mobile platforms. PPV/VOD services deliver one-time rentals electronically to consumers at a price comparable to that of physical media rentals.  

Pay Television (Pay 1): There are generally two pay television windows. The first window is generally sixteen months in duration and follows the PPV/VOD window. The Company has licensed exclusive domestic pay television rights to substantially all films released under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, and Touchstone Pictures banners to the Starz pay television service through fiscal 2016. DreamWorks titles distributed by the Company are licensed to Showtime under a separate agreement.   

Free Television (Free 1): The Pay 1 window is followed by a television window with telecasts accessible to consumers without charge. This free window may last up to 84 months. Motion pictures are usually sold in the Free 1 window on an ad-hoc basis to major networks, including the ABC Television Network, and basic cable services.  

Pay Television 2 (Pay 2) and Free Television 2 (Free 2): In the U.S., Free 1 is generally followed by a fourteen-month Pay 2 window under our license arrangements with Starz and Showtime, and finally by a Free 2 window. Major packages of the Company’s feature films have been licensed for broadcast under multi-year agreements within the Free 2 window. The Free 2 window is a syndication window where films are licensed both to basic cable networks and to third-party television station groups.  

International Television: The Company also licenses its theatrical properties outside of the U.S. The typical windowing sequence is broadly consistent with the domestic cycle such that titles premiere on television in PPV/VOD then air in pay TV before airing in free TV. Windowing strategies are developed in response to local market practices and conditions, and the exact sequence and length of each window can vary country by country.  

13  

Table of Contents 

Disney Music Group  

The Disney Music Group includes Walt Disney Records, Hollywood Records (including the Mammoth Records and Buena Vista Records labels), Lyric Street Records, Buena Vista Concerts and Disney Music Publishing.  

Walt Disney Records produces and distributes compact discs and music DVDs in the United States and licenses our music properties throughout the rest of the world. Music categories include infant, children’s read-along, teens, all-family and soundtracks from film and television series distributed by Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Channel. Hollywood Records develops, produces and markets recordings from talent across a spectrum of popular music.  

The Music Group commissions new music for the Company’s motion picture and television programs, records the songs and licenses the song copyrights to others for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution. Buena Vista Concerts produces live-entertainment events with artists signed to the Disney Music Group record labels.  

Disney Music Publishing controls the copyrights of thousands of musical compositions derived from the Company’s motion picture, television, record and theme park properties, as well as musical compositions written by songwriters under exclusive contract. It is responsible for the management, protection, and licensing of the Disney song catalog on a worldwide basis.  

Disney Theatrical Productions  

Disney Theatrical Productions develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events. The Company has produced and licensed Broadway musicals around the world, including Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King, Elton John & Tim Rice’s Aida, Mary Poppins (a co-production with Cameron Mackintosh Ltd), and TARZAN®. Other stage musical ventures have included an Off-Broadway production of Peter and the Starcatcher and, most recently, stage adaptations of the films Aladdin and Newsies. In addition, the Company licenses musicals for local school and community theatre productions.  

Disney Theatrical Productions also delivers live shows globally through its license to Feld Entertainment, producer of Disney On Ice and Disney Live!. Disney On Ice’s newest ice shows, Dare to Dream and Treasure Trove, launched in September and October 2011, respectively, for North America tours and Phineas and Ferb: The Greatest Live Tour Ever, the latest from Disney Live!, was launched in August 2011.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Studio Entertainment businesses compete with all forms of entertainment. A significant number of companies produce and/or distribute theatrical and television films, exploit products in the home entertainment market, provide pay television programming services and sponsor live theater. We also compete to obtain creative and performing talents, story properties, advertiser support and broadcast rights that are essential to the success of our Studio Entertainment businesses.  

The success of Studio Entertainment operations is heavily dependent upon public taste and preferences. In addition, Studio Entertainment operating results fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.  

CONSUMER PRODUCTS  

The Consumer Products segment engages with licensees, manufacturers, publishers and retailers throughout the world to design, develop, publish, promote and sell a wide variety of products based on existing and new characters and other Company intellectual property through its Merchandise Licensing, Publishing and Retail businesses. In addition to leveraging the Company’s film and television properties, Consumer Products also develops new intellectual property with the potential of also being used in the Company’s other businesses and operates an English language learning business (Disney English).  

14  

Table of Contents 

Merchandise Licensing  

The Company’s worldwide merchandise licensing operations include a diverse range of product categories, the most significant of which are: toys, apparel, home décor and furnishings, stationery, accessories, health and beauty, food, footwear, and consumer electronics. The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties and earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale or retail selling price of the products. Some of the major properties licensed by the Company include Mickey Mouse, Cars, Disney Princess, Winnie the Pooh, Toy Story, Disney Fairies, and the Marvel properties including Spider-Man, Captain America, and Iron Man. The Company also designs individual products and creates exclusive themed and seasonal promotional campaigns for retailers based on characters, movies and TV shows.  

Publishing  

Disney Publishing Worldwide (DPW) publishes children’s books and magazines in multiple countries and languages. DPW businesses include: Juvenile Publishing, Digital Publishing, and Disney English. The Juvenile Publishing group creates, distributes and licenses children’s books and magazines globally in support of the Company’s Disney-, Pixar- and Marvel-branded franchises. Digital Publishing offers content on digital devices through its growing library of e-books and apps, including apps such as Disney Princess Dress-Up: My Sticker Book and Cars 2: World Grand Prix Read and Race. Disney English operates 28 English language learning centers across China.  

Marvel Publishing creates and publishes comic books, and graphic novel collections of comic books, principally in North America. Marvel Publishing also licenses the right to publish translated versions of our comic books, principally in Europe and Latin America. Titles include X-Men, Spider-man, Captain America, Iron Man, Thor, The Avengers and the Incredible Hulk. Marvel Publishing also generates revenues from the digital distribution of its comic books.  

Retail  

The Company markets Disney-themed products directly through retail stores operated under the Disney Store name and through internet sites in North America (DisneyStore.com and DisneyOutlet.com), Western Europe, and Japan. The stores, which are generally located in leading shopping malls and other retail complexes, carry a wide variety of Disney merchandise and promote other businesses of the Company. The Company currently owns and operates 208 stores in North America, 103 stores in Europe, and 46 stores in Japan.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s merchandise licensing, publishing and retail businesses compete with other licensors, publishers and retailers of character, brand and celebrity names. Based on independent surveys, we believe the Company is the largest worldwide licensor of character-based merchandise based on retail sales. Operating results for the licensing and retail businesses are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior and by the timing and performance of animated theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts.  

INTERACTIVE MEDIA  

The Interactive Media Group creates and delivers branded entertainment and lifestyle content across interactive media platforms. The primary operating businesses of the Interactive Media Group are Games which produces multi-platform games for global distribution, and Online, which produces internet websites in the United States and internationally. The Interactive Media Group derives revenues from a combination of wholesale sales, licensing, advertising, sponsorships, subscription services and online game accessories (micro transactions). The Interactive Media Group also manages the Company’s Disney-branded mobile phone business in Japan which provides mobile phone service and content to consumers.  

Games  

The Games business creates, develops, markets and distributes console and handheld, games worldwide based on properties created elsewhere in the Company, including 2011 titles such as LEGO Pirates of the Caribbean, and Cars 2, as well as new game properties such as Epic Mickey. The Games business also produces online games, such as Disney’s Club Penguin and Disney Fairies Pixie Hollow, interactive games for social networking websites such as Gardens of Time, and games for smartphone platforms. Certain properties are also licensed to third-party video game publishers.  

On August 27, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of Playdom, Inc., a company that develops and publishes online games for social networking websites.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Online  

Online develops, publishes and distributes content for branded online services intended for family entertainment. Disney Online produces kids and family-targeted entertainment through a portfolio of websites including Disney.com and the Disney Family Network. Disney.com integrates many of the Company’s Disney-branded internet sites including sites for the Disney Channel, Disney Parks and Resorts, Walt Disney Pictures and Disney Consumer Products.  

Competition and Seasonality  

The Company’s online sites and products compete with a wide variety of other online sites and products. The Company’s video game business competes primarily with other publishers of video game software and other types of home entertainment. Operating results for the video game business fluctuate due to the timing and performance of video game releases, which are determined by several factors including theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts, competition and the timing of holiday periods. Revenues from certain of the Company’s online and mobile operations are subject to similar seasonal trends.  

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION  

The Company’s businesses throughout the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect against infringement of its intellectual property, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. Important intellectual property includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines. Risks related to the protection and exploitation of intellectual property rights are set forth in Item 1A – Risk Factors.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available without charge on our website, www.disney.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the SEC. We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this report.  

 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors