Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts

OVERVIEW

Nordstrom is a leading fashion specialty retailer offering apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men, young adults and children. We offer an extensive selection of high-quality brand-name and private label merchandise through our various channels, including Nordstrom U.S. and Canada full-line stores, Nordstrom.com, Nordstrom Rack stores, Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook, Trunk Club clubhouses and TrunkClub.com, Jeffrey boutiques and Last Chance clearance stores. As of January 28, 2017, our stores are located in 40 states throughout the United States and in three provinces in Canada. Our customers can participate in our Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program which allows them to earn points based on their level of spending. We also offer our customers a variety of payment products and services, including credit and debit cards.

Our 2016 earnings per diluted share of $2.02, which included a goodwill impairment charge of $1.12, exceeded our outlook of $1.70 to $1.80. Our results were driven by continued operational efficiencies in inventory and expense execution and demonstrated our team’s speed and agility in responding to changes in business conditions. We reached record sales of $14.5 billion for the year, reflecting a net sales increase of 2.9% and comparable sales decrease of 0.4% primarily driven by full-line stores. We achieved the following milestones in multiple growth areas:

•Our expansion into Canada where we currently have five full-line stores, including two that opened last fall, contributed total sales of $300 in 2016. 

•Nordstrom.com sales reached over $2.5 billion, representing approximately 25% of full-price sales.

•Our off-price business reached $4.5 billion, with growth mainly driven by our online net sales increase of 32% and 21 new store openings. Off-price continues to be our largest source of new customers, gaining approximately 6 million in 2016.

•Our expanded Nordstrom Rewards program, which launched in the second quarter, drove a strong customer response with 3.7 million customers joining through our non-tender offer. We ended the year with a total of 7.8 million active Nordstrom Rewards customers.

•Our working capital improvements contributed to the $1.6 billion in operating cash flow and $0.6 billion in free cash flow.

From a merchandising perspective, we strive to offer a curated selection of the best brands. As we look for new opportunities through our vendor partnerships, we will continue to be strategic and pursue partnerships that are similar to our portfolio and maintain relevance with our customers by delivering newness. Our strategies around product differentiation include our ongoing efforts to grow limited distribution brands such as Ivy Park, J.Crew and Good American, in addition to our Nordstrom exclusive offering. 

In 2016, we made focused efforts to improve our productivity, particularly around our technology, supply chain and marketing. In technology, we increased the productivity of delivering features to enhance the customer experience. In supply chain, we focused on overall profitability by reducing split shipments and editing out less profitable items online. In marketing, we strengthened our capabilities around digital engagement so that we reach customers in a more efficient and cost-effective manner. Through these efforts, we made significant progress in improving operational efficiencies, reflected by moderated expense growth of 10% in these three key areas, relative to an annual average of 20% over the past five years. 

With customer expectations changing faster than ever, it is important that we remain focused on the customer. Moving forward, we believe our strategies give us a platform for enhanced capabilities to better serve customers and increase market share. Our obsession with our customers keeps us focused on speed, convenience and personalization. We have good momentum in place and will continue to make changes to ensure we are best serving customers and improving our business now and into the future.

18
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our reportable segments are Retail and Credit. We analyze our results of operations through earnings before interest and income taxes for our Retail Business and Credit, while interest expense, income taxes and earnings per share are discussed on a total Company basis.

RETAIL BUSINESS

Our Retail Business includes our Nordstrom U.S. and Canada full-line stores, Nordstrom.com, Nordstrom Rack stores, Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook, Trunk Club, Jeffrey boutiques and Last Chance clearance stores. For purposes of discussion and analysis of our results of operations of our Retail Business, we combine our Retail segment results with revenues and expenses in the “Corporate/Other” column of Note 15: Segment Reporting in Item 8 (collectively, the “Retail Business”). 

Certain metrics we use to evaluate the Retail Business may not be calculated in a consistent manner among industry peers. Provided below are definitions of metrics we present within our analysis of the Retail Business: 

•Comparable Sales – sales from stores that have been open at least one full year at the beginning of the year. Total Company comparable sales include sales from our online channels.

•Gross Profit – net sales less cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs.

•Inventory Turnover Rate – annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by the trailing 4-quarter average inventory. 

•Total Sales Per Square Foot – net sales divided by weighted-average square footage. 

•4-wall Sales Per Square Foot – sales for Nordstrom U.S. and Canada full-line stores, Nordstrom Rack stores, Trunk Club clubhouses, Jeffrey boutiques and Last Chance clearance stores divided by their weighted-average square footage.

Summary

The following table summarizes the results of our Retail Business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  19
Retail Business Net Sales

In our ongoing effort to enhance the customer experience, we are focused on providing customers with a seamless experience across our channels. While our customers may engage with us through multiple channels, we know they value the overall Nordstrom brand experience and view us simply as Nordstrom, which is ultimately how we view our business. The following is a summary of our net sales by channel for our Retail Business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Other retail includes Nordstrom Canada full-line stores, Trunk Club and Jeffrey boutiques.

Net Sales (2016 vs. 2015)

In 2016, total Company net sales increased 2.9%, while comparable sales decreased 0.4%. During the year, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, including two in Canada, and 21 Nordstrom Rack stores. 

Full-price net sales, which consist of the U.S. full-line and Nordstrom.com channels, decreased 2.3% compared with 2015, while comparable sales decreased 2.7%. Also on a comparable basis, full-price sales reflected a decrease in the total number of items sold, partially offset by an increase in the average selling price per item sold. The top-performing merchandise category was Beauty. The West was the top-performing geographic region. 

Off-price net sales, which consists of Nordstrom Rack and Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook channels, increased 10.9%, compared with 2015 and comparable sales increased 4.5%. Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook had a comparable sales increase of 31.7% and now represents over 15% of off-price sales. Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 7.8%, primarily attributable to 21 new store openings in 2016. On a comparable basis, the total number of items sold increased at Nordstrom Rack, partially offset by a decrease in the average selling price per item sold. Kids was the top-performing merchandise category, and the East was the top-performing geographic region.

20
Net Sales (2015 vs. 2014)

In 2015, total Company net sales increased 7.5%, while comparable sales increased 2.7%. During the year, we opened five Nordstrom full-line stores, including two in Canada, and 27 Nordstrom Rack stores. 

Full-price net sales increased 2.6% compared with 2014, while on a comparable basis, sales increased 2.3%. These increases reflected continued momentum in our Nordstrom.com channel, which increased 15%. Also on a comparable basis, the total number of items sold and the average selling price per item sold increased. The top-performing merchandise categories included Beauty and Women’s Apparel. The Northwest was the top-performing U.S. full-line store geographic region. 

Off-price net sales increased 13.7%, compared with 2014, while on a comparable basis, sales increased 4.3%. Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook experienced outsized growth, with a net sales increase of 47%. Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 9.9%, attributable to new store openings. On a comparable basis, the average retail price per item sold increased at Nordstrom Rack, offset by a decrease in the total number of items sold. Shoes and Beauty were the top-performing merchandise categories and the South was the top-performing geographic region. 

Retail Business Gross Profit

The following table summarizes the Retail Business gross profit (“Retail GP”):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross Profit (2016 vs. 2015)

Our Retail GP rate was relatively flat compared with 2015, reflecting higher occupancy costs associated with Nordstrom Rack and Canada store growth, in addition to increased markdowns in the first half of the year to realign inventory to sales trends. This was offset by strong inventory execution during the remainder of the year and reduced competitive markdowns. Our ending inventory per square foot decrease of 6.4% in 2016 reflected this strong inventory execution.

Gross Profit (2015 vs. 2014)

Our Retail GP rate decreased 92 basis points compared with 2014 primarily due to higher cost of sales driven by increased markdowns from lower than planned sales and in response to an elevated promotional environment during the second half of the year. Retail GP increased $225 in 2015 compared with 2014 due to an increase in net sales, partially offset by increased markdowns.

Our inventory turnover rate decreased to 4.54 in 2015 due to softer sales trends experienced during the second half of the year. Our ending inventory per square foot increased 6.1% in 2015, which outpaced our sales per square foot increase of 2.9%. The growth of our online channels contributed to increases in inventory without corresponding increases in square footage.

Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Retail Business selling, general and administrative expenses (“Retail SG&A”) are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (2016 vs. 2015)

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 19 basis points in 2016 and increased $143 compared with 2015 primarily due to technology and fulfillment expenses.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (2015 vs. 2014) 

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 112 basis points in 2015 compared with 2014 due to growth initiatives related to Trunk Club and Canada, higher fulfillment costs supporting online growth and asset impairment charges (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8). Our Retail SG&A increased $428 in 2015 due primarily to increased sales and growth initiatives related to Canada and Trunk Club. 

Retail Business Goodwill Impairment

We recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $197 in 2016 related to Trunk Club (see Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8). 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  21
CREDIT SEGMENT

The Nordstrom credit and debit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing loyalty benefits, valuable services and payment products. We believe our credit business allows us to build deeper relationships with our customers by fully integrating the Nordstrom Rewards program with our retail business and providing better service, which in turn fosters greater customer loyalty. Nordstrom cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more than non-cardholders. Nordstrom private label credit and debit cards can be used at all of our U.S. retail channels, while Nordstrom Visa credit cards also may be used for purchases outside of Nordstrom (“outside volume”).

In October 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our U.S. Visa and private label credit card portfolio to TD (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). 

Summary

The table below provides a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with Note 15: Segment Reporting in Item 8:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Prior to the credit card receivable transaction on October 1, 2015, interest expense was allocated to the Credit segment as if it carried debt of up to 80% of the credit card receivables.

2 Volume represents sales on the total portfolio plus applicable taxes.

Credit Card Revenues, net

The following is a summary of our credit card revenues, net:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Following the close of the credit card receivable transaction and pursuant to the program agreement with TD, we receive our portion of the ongoing credit card revenue, net of credit losses, from both the sold and newly generated credit card receivables, which is recorded in credit program revenues, net. Asset amortization and deferred revenue recognition associated with the assets and liabilities recorded as part of the transaction are also recorded in credit program revenues, net. Revenue earned under the program agreement is impacted by the credit quality of receivables, both owned and serviced, and factors such as deteriorating economic conditions, declining creditworthiness of cardholders and the success of account management and collection activities may heighten the risk of credit losses. 

Prior to the close of the credit card receivable transaction, credit card revenues included finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other revenue, recorded net of estimated uncollectible finance charges and fees. Finance charges represent interest earned on unpaid balances while interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom Visa credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom. Late fees are assessed when a credit card account becomes past due. We continue to recognize revenue in this manner for the credit card receivables retained subsequent to the close of the credit card receivable transaction.

Credit Card Revenues, net decreased $83 in 2016 and $54 in 2015 due to the credit card receivable transaction and the new program agreement.

22
Credit Expenses

Credit expenses consist of operational, bad debt and occupancy expenses. Credit expenses in 2016 were relatively flat compared with 2015 as there was a $64 gain partially offset by $32 of expenses incurred in 2015 associated with the credit card receivable transaction. Excluding the net impact of these items, credit expenses decreased $29 in 2016 primarily due to the decrease in bad debt expense since the sale of the credit card receivables in October of 2015. 

TOTAL COMPANY RESULTS

Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense, Net (2016 vs. 2015)

Interest expense, net decreased $4 in 2016 compared with 2015 primarily due to the defeasance of our $325 Series 2011-1 Class A Notes in the third quarter of 2015.

Interest Expense, Net (2015 vs. 2014)

Interest expense, net decreased $13 in 2015 compared with 2014 due to an increase in capitalized interest resulting from planned capital investments related to technology, our Manhattan store and Nordstrom Rack and Canada store openings in 2015.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Income Tax Expense (2016 vs. 2015)

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $197 related to Trunk Club (see Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8). Excluding the impact of the Trunk Club goodwill impairment, our effective tax rate for 2016 would have decreased approximately 1% compared with the prior year primarily due to an increase in nontaxable income. 

Income Tax Expense (2015 vs. 2014)

The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2015 compared with 2014 was primarily due to a decrease in non-deductible acquisition-related items and the benefit of income tax credits in 2015.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  23
Earnings Per Share

Earnings per share is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]1 A reconciliation of adjusted earnings per share, a non-GAAP financial measure, to the closest GAAP measure is included on page 25.

Earnings Per Diluted Share (2016 vs. 2015)

The decrease in diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) for 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $197 related to Trunk Club. Excluding the goodwill impairment charge, adjusted earnings per diluted share compared with actual EPS for 2015 was relatively flat due to higher technology and fulfillment costs supporting multi-channel growth, offset by a decrease in shares outstanding as a result of share repurchases during the year. 

Earnings Per Diluted Share (2015 vs. 2014)

The decrease in EPS for 2015 compared with 2014 was primarily due to lower Retail Business earnings before interest and income taxes. This decrease was partially offset by a decrease in weighted average shares outstanding resulting from an increase in share repurchases.

Fourth Quarter Results 

The following are our results for the fourth quarters of 2016 and 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales

Total Company net sales increased 2.4% in the fourth quarter of 2016, compared with the same period in 2015, while comparable sales decreased 0.9%. 

Full-price net sales decreased 2.8% for the quarter ended January 28, 2017, compared with the same period in 2015, while comparable sales decreased 2.9%. Also on a comparable basis for the quarter, full-price sales reflected a decrease in the number of items sold, partially offset by an increase in the average selling price per item sold. For the fourth quarter, the top-performing merchandise categories were Women’s Apparel and Beauty, and the East was the top-performing geographic region.

Off-price net sales increased 10.7% for the quarter ended January 28, 2017, compared with the same period in 2015, while comparable sales increased 4.3%. Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 7.4% attributable to 21 new store openings since the end of 2015. On a comparable basis, the number of items sold increased at Nordstrom Rack, partially offset by a decrease in the average selling price per item sold. Kids was the top-performing merchandise category and the East was the top-performing geographic region for the quarter ended January 28, 2017.

Credit Card Revenues, net

Credit card revenues, net increased $22 for the quarter, compared with the same period in the prior year, primarily due to higher amortization of the beneficial interest asset in the fourth quarter of 2015.

Gross Profit

Our total Company gross profit rate increased 106 basis points compared with the same period in 2015, reflecting strong inventory execution in addition to reduced competitive markdowns. Inventory declined 2.5%, which reflected a positive spread of 5 percentage points relative to sales growth.

24
Retail Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Our Retail SG&A rate decreased 67 basis points primarily due to asset impairment charges occurring in the fourth quarter of 2015 and a non-operational legal settlement gain of $22 in 2016. This was partially offset by performance-related costs associated with company performance. 

Credit Expenses

In the fourth quarter of 2016, total credit expenses increased $6 compared with the fourth quarter of 2015, driven primarily by increased credit card settlement fees and labor. 

For further information on our quarterly results in 2016 and 2015, refer to Note 16: Selected Quarterly Data in Item 8.

Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share (Non-GAAP financial measures)

We believe that Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share provide useful information to investors in evaluating our business performance for the quarter and year ended January 28, 2017. The effect of excluding certain items from net earnings provides management and shareholders an alternative measure to use in evaluating our business performance period over period. 

Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share are not measures of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, net earnings, earnings per share and diluted earnings per share or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ financial measures and therefore may not be comparable to methods used by other companies. The financial measures calculated under GAAP which are most directly comparable to Adjusted Earnings and Adjusted Earnings Per Share are net earnings and diluted earnings per share, which are reconciled below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The effect of taxes on the adjustments used to arrive at Adjusted Earnings is calculated based on applying the estimated annual effective tax rate to Adjusted Earnings plus other tax items for each interim period and is a result of the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge in the third quarter of 2016. 

2017 Outlook

Our expectations for 2017, which include the impact of the 53rd week, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The 53rd week is estimated to add approximately $200 million to total sales and is not included in comparable sales calculations.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  25
Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) (Non-GAAP financial measure)

We believe ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital and believe ROIC is an important component of shareholders’ return over the long term. In addition, we incorporate ROIC in our executive incentive compensation measures. For the 12 fiscal months ended January 28, 2017, our ROIC decreased compared with the 12 fiscal months ended January 30, 2016, primarily due to reduced earnings largely impacted by the Trunk Club goodwill impairment (see Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8). The Trunk Club goodwill impairment had a negative impact on ROIC of 3.3%. 

We define ROIC as our net operating profit after tax divided by our average invested capital using the trailing 12-month average. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, return on assets, net earnings, total assets or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to ROIC is return on assets. The following is a reconciliation of the components of ROIC and return on assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 3 below.

2 Balances associated with our deferred rent liability have been classified as long-term liabilities in the current period. 

3 Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base. The asset base for each month is calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 1.

26
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We strive to maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial position, manage refinancing risk and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe that as of January 28, 2017, our existing cash and cash equivalents on-hand of $1,007, available credit facilities of $800 and potential future operating cash flows and borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives. 

Operating Activities

The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short-term and long-term borrowings. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,648 in 2016, $2,451 in 2015 and $1,220 in 2014. 

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $803 between 2016 and 2015, primarily due to $1,297 of proceeds in 2015 from the sale of our credit card receivables originated at Nordstrom (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). When removing the impact of the sale proceeds, operating cash flows increased from 2015 primarily due to improvements in working capital. 

Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $1,231 between 2015 and 2014, primarily due to sale proceeds from the credit card receivable transaction. Also within operating activities, deferred income taxes, net and prepaid expenses and other assets were impacted by a change in an IRS rule regarding repairs of real property.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $791 in 2016, $144 in 2015 and $889 in 2014. The increase in cash used in 2016 compared with 2015 is primarily due to $890 of proceeds in 2015 from the sale of our credit card receivables originated at third parties, partially offset by a decrease in capital expenditures in 2016. 

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $2,789, with $846 in 2016, $1,082 in 2015 and $861 in 2014. Capital expenditures decreased in 2016 compared with 2015 due to reduced spend associated with full-line relocations and new full-line stores.

We receive property incentives from our developers, which we view operationally as an offset to our capital expenditures. Developer incentives of $65 in 2016, $156 in 2015 and $110 in 2014 are included in our cash provided by operations in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8. 

Our capital expenditure percentages, net of property incentives, by category are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Other capital expenditures consist of ongoing improvements to our stores in the ordinary course of business and expenditures related to various growth initiatives.

Net capital expenditures in 2016, as well as over the next five years, are primarily focused in the areas of investment in new stores, including continued expansion into new markets such as Canada and Manhattan, and remodels of existing full-line stores.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  27
The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Square footage includes adjustments due to store relocations and remodels.

2 Other includes Trunk Club clubhouses, Jeffrey boutiques and Last Chance stores.

We had three store relocations in 2016, compared with one relocation in 2015 and no relocations in 2014. To date in 2017, we have opened one Nordstrom Rack store and plan to open 15 additional Nordstrom Rack stores and one Nordstrom full-line store in Canada during the remainder of the year. Planned net store openings are expected to increase our retail square footage by approximately 2%.

Our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, over the next five years is expected to be approximately $3,400, compared with $3,600 over the previous five years. Early in 2016, we completed a review of our five-year capital plan which resulted in reduced spend primarily related to new stores and remodels. Although we plan our spending in 2017 to be relatively flat compared with 2016, we expect reduction in the following years. 

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $445 in 2016 compared with $2,539 in 2015 and $698 in 2014. Our financing activities include our borrowing activity, payment of dividends and repurchases of common stock.

Borrowing Activity 

In 2015, as a condition of closing the credit card receivable transaction, we defeased $325 in secured Series 2011-1 Class A Notes in order to provide the receivables to TD free and clear. 

On March 9, 2017, we issued $350 aggregate principal amount of 4.00% senior unsecured notes due March 2027 and $300 aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due January 2044 (the “2044 Notes”). The 2044 Notes will be a further issuance of, and will be fully fungible, rank equally in right of payment and form a single series with, our outstanding 5.00% senior unsecured notes due 2044. With the proceeds of these new notes, we plan to retire our $650 senior unsecured notes that are due January 2018 (see Note 7: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8).

Dividends

In 2016, we paid dividends of $256, or $1.48 per share, compared with $1,185, or $6.33 per share, in 2015 and $251, or $1.32 per share, in 2014. Dividends paid in 2015 included a special cash dividend of $905, or $4.85 per share, in addition to our quarterly dividends totaling $1.48 per share. The special dividend was authorized by our Board of Directors on October 1, 2015 and was paid using proceeds from the sale of our credit card receivables. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our current and projected operating performance and liquidity. Our dividend payout ratio target range is 30% to 35% and is calculated as our dividend payments divided by net earnings.

In February 2017, subsequent to year end, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share, which was paid on March 15, 2017.

Share Repurchases

On October 1, 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $1,000 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2017. During 2016, we repurchased 5.9 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $282. 

Our October 1, 2015 Board authorized share repurchase program, which had $529 of remaining capacity as of January 28, 2017, expired on March 1, 2017. There was $409 of unused capacity upon program expiration. In February 2017, our Board of Directors authorized an additional program to repurchase up to $500 of our outstanding common stock, through August 31, 2018. The actual number, price, manner and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions and applicable SEC rules.

28
Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and when used in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides investors with a meaningful analysis of our ability to generate cash from our business. For the year ended January 28, 2017, Free Cash Flow decreased to $550 compared with $1,131 for the year ended January 30, 2016, primarily due to proceeds received in 2015 related to the sale of credit card receivables.

Free Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, operating cash flows or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Free Cash Flow is net cash provided by operating activities. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Capacity and Commitments

As of January 28, 2017, we had total short-term borrowing capacity of $800 under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“revolver”) that expires in April 2020. Under the terms of our revolver, we pay a variable rate of interest and a commitment fee based on our debt rating. The revolver is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $200, to a total of $1,000, provided that we obtain written consent from the lenders. 

Our $800 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing available liquidity under the revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. 

As of January 28, 2017, we had no issuances outstanding under our commercial paper program and no borrowings outstanding under our revolver.

Our wholly owned subsidiary in Puerto Rico maintains a $52 unsecured borrowing facility to support our expansion into that market. The facility expires in November 2018 and borrowings on this facility incur interest based upon the LIBOR plus 1.275% per annum and also incurs a fee based on our unused commitment. As of January 28, 2017, we had $50 outstanding on this facility.

We have a registration statement on file with the SEC using a “shelf” registration process. Under this shelf registration process, we may offer and sell, from time to time, any combination of the securities described in a prospectus to the registration statement, including registered debt, provided we maintain Well-known Seasoned Issuer (“WKSI”) status.

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate our international payments. As of January 28, 2017, we have $8 available and $1 outstanding under the trade letter of credit and $15 available and $2 outstanding under the standby letter of credit.

Plans for our Manhattan full-line store, which we currently expect to open in 2019, ultimately include owning a condominium interest in a mixed-use tower and leasing certain nearby properties. As of January 28, 2017, we had approximately $249 of fee interest in land, which is expected to convert to the condominium interest once the store is constructed. We have committed to make future installment payments based on the developer meeting pre-established construction and development milestones. In the event that this project is not completed, the opening may be delayed and we may be subject to future losses or capital commitments in order to complete construction or to monetize our investment in the land. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  29
Impact of Credit Ratings

Under the terms of our revolver, any borrowings we may enter into will accrue interest for Euro-Dollar Rate Loans at a floating base rate tied to LIBOR, for Canadian Dealer Offer Rate Loans at a floating rate tied to CDOR, and for Base Rate Loans at the highest of: (i) the Euro-Dollar rate plus 100 basis points, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points and (iii) the prime rate.

The rate depends upon the type of borrowing incurred, plus in each case an applicable margin. This applicable margin varies depending upon the credit ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt. At the time of this report, our long-term unsecured debt ratings, outlook and resulting applicable margin were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt improve, the applicable margin associated with any such borrowings may decrease, resulting in a lower borrowing cost under this facility. Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may increase, resulting in a higher borrowing cost under this facility.

Debt Covenants

The revolver requires that we maintain an adjusted debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent (“EBITDAR”) leverage ratio of no more than four times (see the following additional discussion of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR). As of January 28, 2017, we were in compliance with this covenant. 

30
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating and operate with an efficient capital structure. In evaluating our debt levels, this measure provides a reflection of our credit worthiness that could impact our credit rating and borrowing costs. We also have a debt covenant that requires an adjusted debt to EBITDAR leverage ratio of no more than four times. As of January 28, 2017, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.4, compared with 2.2 as of January 30, 2016. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in our estimated capitalized operating lease liability.

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, debt to net earnings, net earnings, debt or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is debt to net earnings. The following is a reconciliation of the components of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR and debt to net earnings:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The components of Adjusted Debt are as of January 28, 2017 and January 30, 2016, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended January 28, 2017 and January 30, 2016.

2 Based upon the estimated lease liability as of the end of the period, calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property.

3 Our revolver agreement stipulates that non-cash charges (including goodwill or other impairment charges) related to acquisitions be deducted in determining net earnings for purposes of our debt covenant calculation. As such, the Trunk Club goodwill impairment of $197 (see Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8) has been added back to arrive at EBITDAR for the 12 months ended January 28, 2017.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  31
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of January 28, 2017. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,569 as of January 28, 2017, payable over the remaining life of the debt.

The capital and operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for operating expenses that are required by most of our lease agreements. Such expenses, which include common area charges, real estate taxes and other executory costs, totaled $112 in 2016, $97 in 2015 and $88 in 2014. In addition, some of our leases require additional rental payments based on a percentage of our sales, referred to as “percentage rent.” Percentage rent, which is also excluded from the obligations in the table above, was $12 in 2016, $13 in 2015 and $14 in 2014.

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments, including our Manhattan store.

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and other liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $34, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

On October 1, 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our U.S. Visa and private label credit card portfolio to TD (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). Pursuant to the program agreement with TD, we offer and administer our loyalty program and perform other account servicing functions. Credit card receivables serviced under this contract are $2,342 as of January 28, 2017. We retained certain accounts receivable subsequent to the sale and the unused credit card capacity available represents an off-balance sheet commitment. As of January 28, 2017, this unfunded commitment was $124. 

Other than items noted in the paragraph above, in addition to operating leases entered into in the normal course of business and the development of our Manhattan full-line store, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements during 2016.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.

32
Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue net of estimated returns and excluding sales taxes. Revenue from sales to customers shipped directly from our stores, websites and catalog, which includes shipping revenue when applicable, is recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, there were no significant changes in customer return behavior and we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $12 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 28, 2017.

Merchandise Inventories

Merchandise inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method (weighted-average cost). Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories is determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. The value of our inventory on the balance sheet is then reduced by a charge to cost of sales for retail inventory markdowns taken on the selling floor. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross profit.

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Our obsolescence reserve contains uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence reserve. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would have had a $3 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 28, 2017.

Goodwill

We review our goodwill annually for impairment or when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may exceed the fair value. We perform this evaluation at the reporting unit level, comprised of the principal business units within our Retail segment, through the application of a two-step fair value test. The first step compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value, which is based on the expected present value of future cash flows (income approach), comparable public companies and acquisitions (market approach) or a combination of both. If fair value is lower than the carrying value, then a second step is performed to quantify the amount of the impairment. 

As part of our impairment testing, we utilize certain assumptions and apply judgment regarding a number of factors. Significant estimates in the market approach include identifying similar companies and acquisitions with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return of investment, and assessing comparable earnings or revenue multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit. Assumptions in the income approach include future cash flows for the business, future growth rates and discount rates. Estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model or changes in operating performance. For Nordstrom.com, Jeffrey and HauteLook, the fair values substantially exceeded carrying values and therefore we had no material goodwill impairment in 2016, 2015 or 2014. A 10% change in the fair value of any of these reporting units would not have had an impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 28, 2017. 

We recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $197 for the year ended January 28, 2017 related to Trunk Club, resulting from changes to the long-term operating plan that reflected lower expectations for growth and profitability than previous expectations (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8). There were no material goodwill impairment charges related to Trunk Club in 2015 or 2014. 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of long-lived assets, including buildings, equipment and amortizable intangible assets, may be impaired, we perform an evaluation of recoverability by comparing the carrying values of the net assets to their related projected undiscounted future cash flows, in addition to other quantitative and qualitative analyses. 

Land, property and equipment are grouped at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash flows when assessing impairment. Cash flows for our retail store assets are identified at the individual store level, while our intangible assets associated with HauteLook and Trunk Club are identified at their respective reporting unit levels. The assets recorded in connection with the credit card receivable transaction are individually evaluated against the anticipated cash flows under the program agreement (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). 

Our estimates are subject to uncertainties and may be impacted by various external factors such as economic conditions and market competition. While we believe the inputs and assumptions utilized in our analyses of future cash flows are reasonable, events or circumstances may change which could cause us to revise these estimates.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  33
Stock-Based Compensation Expense

We grant stock-based awards under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (“2010 Plan”), 2002 Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan (“2002 Plan”) and Trunk Club Value Creation Plan (“VCP”), and employees may purchase our stock at a discount under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). We predominantly recognize stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards at their estimated grant date fair value, recorded on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Compensation expense for certain award holders is accelerated based upon achievement of age and years of service. The total compensation expense is reduced by estimated forfeitures expected to occur over the vesting period of the awards.

We estimate the grant date fair value of stock options using the Binomial Lattice option valuation model. Stock-based compensation expense related to the VCP is based on the grant date fair value of the payout scenario we believe is probable using the Black-Scholes valuation model and is recognized on an accelerated basis due to performance criteria and graded vesting features of the plan. The fair value of restricted stock is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant, less the estimated present value of dividends over the vesting period. Performance share units granted prior to 2016 are classified as liabilities and revalued using the quoted price of our common stock as of each reporting date. Performance share units granted in 2016 and beyond are classified as equity and the fair value is determined using the Monte-Carlo valuation model.

Calculating the grant date fair value of stock-based awards is based on certain assumptions and requires judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, forfeiture rates, expected life and performance criteria. A 10% change in stock-based compensation expense would have a $6 impact on our net earnings for the year ended January 28, 2017.

Income Taxes

We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Using this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is determined that some portion of the tax benefit will not be realized.

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount that we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $32 as of January 28, 2017 and $19 as of January 30, 2016. Interest and penalties related to income tax matters are classified as a component of income tax expense.

Income taxes require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred taxes, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2016 or 2015.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and the impact these standards are anticipated to have on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.

34
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.