Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our investments are intended to establish a high-quality portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations, and delivers an appropriate yield in relationship to our investment guidelines and market conditions. Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities, money market funds, cash deposits, and marketable securities that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $2,342.2 million as of March 31, 2015 compared to $2,143.5 million as of March 31, 2014. The available-for-sale debt securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. We have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. The following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. We have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We are exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-to-floating interest rate derivative instruments. Based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of March 31, 2015, a hypothetical increase in benchmark interest rates of up to 1%, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of these instruments by $43 million. A hypothetical decrease in benchmark interest rates of up to 1%, would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of these instruments by $39 million. Any gains and losses on the fair value of these derivative instruments would generally be offset by gains and losses on the hedged item.

See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our investments and use of derivative instruments.

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA