PART I 

  ITEM 1.   Business    

Forward Looking Statements 

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements in this document, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements which may be identified by the use of the words "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "would," "should," "may," "estimates" and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, which may cause Public Storage's actual results and performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. As a result, you should not rely on any forward-looking statements in this report, or which manage ment may make orally or in writing from time to time, as predictions of future events nor guarantees of future performance. We caution you not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report or as of the dates indicated in the statements. All of our forward-looking statements, including those in this report, are qualified in their entirety by this statement. 

Factors and risks that may impact our future results and performance include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the following: 

  ·    general risks associated with the ownership and operation of real estate including changes in demand, potential liability for environmental contamination, adverse changes in tax, including property tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations, and the impact of natural disasters;    

  ·    risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in the markets in which we operate, including risks related to current economic conditions and the economic health of our tenants;    

  ·    the impact of competition from new and existing self-storage and commercial facilities and other storage alternatives;    

  ·    difficulties in our ability to successfully evaluate, finance, integrate into our existing operations and manage acquired and developed properties;    

  ·    risks associated with international operations including, but not limited to, unfavorable foreign currency rate fluctuations, that could adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;    

  ·    risks related to our participation in joint ventures;    

  ·    the impact of the regulatory environment as well as national, state, and local laws and regulations including, without limitation, those governing environmental, tax and tenant insurance matters and real estate investment trusts (“REITs”), and risks related to the impact of new laws and regulations;    

  ·    risks associated with a possible failure by us to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;    

  ·    disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes and systems or breaches of our data security;    

  ·    difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost; and    

  ·    economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism.     

3 

We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, new estimates, or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this document, except where required by law. Accordingly, you should use caution in relying on past forward-looking statements to anticipate future results. 

General 

Public Storage was organized in 1980. Effective June 1, 2007, we reorganized Public Storage, Inc. into Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “the Trust”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland real estate investment trust (“REIT”). Our principal business activities include the acquisition, development, ownership and operation of self-storage facilities which offer storage spaces for lease, generally on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use. We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the United States (“U.S.”). We also have equity interests in Shurgard Europe, a private company that we believe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Western Europe , and in PS Business Parks, Inc., a public company whose business activities primarily include the ownership and operations of commercial properties. 

At December 31, 2010, we operate within three reportable segments: 

  (i)    Domestic Self-Storage segment which includes our direct and indirect equity interests in 2,048 self-storage facilities (130 million net rentable square feet of space) located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the “Public Storage” brand name.    

  (ii)    Europe Self-Storage segment which comprises (a) our 49% equity interest in Shurgard Europe which has direct and indirect equity interests in 188 self-storage facilities (10 million net rentable square feet of space) located in seven countries in Western Europe which operate under the “Shurgard” brand name and (b) one facility located in the United Kingdom that we wholly own.    

  (iii)    Commercial segment which includes our direct and indirect equity interests in approximately 24 million net rentable square feet of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S., including our 41% ownership interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”), a publicly traded REIT whose common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “PSB”. This commercial space is primarily operated under the “PS Business Parks” brand name.    

See Note 11 to our December 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements for further discussion with respect to our reportable segments. 

Certain other activities, due to their insignificant scale and dissimilarity in operating characteristics to our existing segments, are not allocated to any segment. These activities include (i) the reinsurance of policies against losses to goods stored by tenants in our self-storage facilities, (ii) the sale of merchandise at our self-storage facilities and (iii) management of self-storage facilities owned by third-party owners and entities that we have an ownership interest in but are not consolidated. 

For all taxable years subsequent to 1980, we qualified and intend to continue to qualify as a REIT, as defined in Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code. As a REIT, we do not incur federal or significant state tax on that portion of our taxable income which is distributed to our shareholders, provided that we meet certain tests. To the extent that we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will not be subject to tax, with certain limited exceptions, on the taxable income that is distributed to our shareholders. 

We have reported annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants. We have also reported quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements with such filings. We expect to continue such reporting. 

On our website, www.publicstorage.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

4 

The Impact of Current Economic Factors 

Our business has been negatively affected by the recessionary environment experienced in 2008 through 2010. Occupancies, rental rates and overall rental income at our facilities came under pressure as demand for self-storage space softened. We responded by reducing rental rates, increasing promotional discounts, and increasing our marketing activities to stimulate additional demand for our storage space and increase our market share. Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities decreased from $1.468 billion in 2008 to $1.423 billion in 2009, representing a reduction of 3.1%. Our operating metrics began to stabilize in the latter part of 2009 and started to improve as we moved into the second half of 2010. Revenues generated by our Same Store facilities stabilized in 2010 at $1. 428 billion, flat as compared to 2009. 

See “Growth and Investment Strategies” and “Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies” below for more information regarding our long-term strategy to grow the cash flows and equity values of the Company. 

Competition 

Self-storage facilities generally draw customers who either reside or have their businesses located within a three to five mile radius. Many of our facilities operate within three to five miles of well-located and well-managed competitors that seek the same group of customers. Many of our competitors utilize the same marketing channels we use, including yellow page advertising, Internet advertising, as well as signage and banners. As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities. 

While competition is significant, the self-storage industry remains fragmented in the U.S. We believe that we own approximately 5% of the aggregate self-storage square footage in the U.S., and that collectively the five largest self-storage operators in the U.S. own approximately 10% of the aggregate self-storage space in the U.S., with the remaining 90% owned by numerous private regional and local operators. This market fragmentation enhances the advantage of our economies of scale and our brand relative to other operators (see “Business Attributes – Economies of Scale” below), and provides an opportunity for growth through acquisitions over the long term. 

In seeking investments, we compete with a wide variety of institutions and other investors. The amount of funds available for real estate investments greatly influences the competition for ownership interests in facilities and, by extension, the yields that we can achieve on newly acquired investments. 

Business Attributes 

We believe that we possess several primary business attributes that permit us to compete effectively: 

Centralized information networks: Our facilities are part of comprehensive centralized reporting and information networks which enable the management team to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer data, and quickly change our properties’ pricing and promotional mix on an automated basis. 

National Telephone Reservation System: We operate a centralized telephone reservation system, which provides added customer service and helps to maximize utilization of available self-storage space. Customers calling either the toll-free telephone referral system, (800) 44-STORE, or a storage facility, are directed to the national reservation system. A representative discusses with the customer space requirements, price and location preferences and also informs the customer of other products and services provided by the Company and its subsidiaries. We believe that the centralized telephone reservation system enhances our ability to market storage space in the U .S. relative to handling these calls at individual properties, because it allows us to more effectively offer all spaces at all facilities in the vicinity of a customer and to provide higher-quality selling efforts through dedicated sales specialists. 

5 

On-line reservation and marketing system: We also provide customers the ability to review space availability, pricing, and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com. We invest extensively in advertising on the Internet, primarily through the use of search engines. 

Economies of scale: We are the largest provider of self-storage space in the U.S. As of December 31, 2010, we operated 2,048 self-storage facilities in which we had an interest with over one million self-storage spaces rented. These facilities are generally located in major markets within 38 states in the U.S. The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions with specialists, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, pricing of our product, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures. We also believe that our major market concentration provides managerial efficiencies stemming from having a large number of facilities in close proximity to each other. 

The concentration of most of our properties in major metropolitan centers makes various promotional and media programs, such as yellow pages, Internet keyword bidding, and television advertising, more economical for us than for our competitors. We can economically purchase large, prominent, well-placed yellow page ads that allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller operators. Our large market share relative to our competitors, along with our well-recognized brand name, increases the likelihood that our facilities will appear in response to queries in search engines such as Google, and allows us to bid aggressively and efficiently for multiple-keyword advertising. In addition, we are able to market efficiently using television as a media source. 

Brand name recognition: Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the “Public Storage” brand name, which we believe is the most recognized and established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations within the U.S. are conducted in major markets in 38 states, giving us national recognition and prominence. Our facilities tend to be highly visible and located in heavily populated areas, improving the local awareness of our brand. We believe that the “Shurgard” brand, used by Shurgard Europe, is a similarly established and valuable brand. 

Complementary ancillary operations: We also sell retail items associated with the storage business (locks, cardboard boxes and packing supplies) and reinsure policies issued to our tenants against lost or damaged goods stored by our tenants. We believe these activities supplement our existing self-storage business by further meeting the needs of our customers. 

Growth and Investment Strategies 

Our growth strategies consist of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage facilities, (ii) acquiring facilities, (iii) developing or redeveloping existing real estate facilities, (iv) participating in the growth of commercial facilities, primarily through our investment in PSB, and (v) participate in the growth of Shurgard Europe. While our long-term strategy includes each of these elements, in the short run the level of growth in our asset base in any period is dependent upon the cost and availability of capital, as well as the relative attractiveness of investment alternatives. 

Improve the operating performance of existing facilities: We seek to increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self-storage facilities by a) regularly evaluating our call volume, reservation activity, and move-in/move-out rates for each of our facilities relative to our marketing activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these analyses, adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate balance between occupancy, rental rates, and promotional discounting and d) controlling operating costs. We believe that our property management personnel and systems, combined with our national telephone reservation system and media advertising program s will continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” below for further information regarding our expectation in the short-run with respect to our operating results. 

6 

Acquire properties owned or operated by others in the U.S.: We seek to expand our portfolio by acquiring well-located facilities, at generally attractive pricing. We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities and capitalize on the overall fragmentation in the self-storage industry. Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities, which are often located in proximity to potential acquisition candidates, provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities. During 2008 and 2009, there were few acquisition opportunities. We have increased our acquisitions of sel f-storage facilities in 2010 as more opportunities became available. During 2010, we acquired 42 facilities (2.7 million net rentable square feet) for approximately $239.6 million. While there can be no assurance, we believe that additional acquisition opportunities may materialize in 2011. In January 2011, we acquired five facilities (386,000 net rentable square feet) in Nevada for approximately $19.5 million. 

Development of real estate facilities: We believe that in the long-run, development of new storage locations and expansion of our existing self-storage facilities represent an important part of our growth strategy. New locations can be developed to meet customer needs and expand our geographic reach, generally within our existing markets. In addition, existing facilities can be expanded or enhanced to provide additional amenities such as climate control, to better capitalize on increased population density in certain facilities’ local market area. However, due to the challenging operating environment, we substantially curtailed our development activities beginning in 2008. We continue to have a nomi nal development pipeline at December 31, 2010. Shurgard Europe has similarly reduced its development activities (see “Capitalize on the Potential for Growth in Europe” below). 

Participate in the growth of commercial facilities primarily through our ownership in PS Business Parks, Inc.: At December 31, 2010, we had a 41% interest in PSB and its operating partnership which consisted of 5,801,606 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in the operating partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common stock. At December 31, 2010, PSB owned and operated approximately 21.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space located in eight states in the U.S. During 2008 through 2010, the recession in the U.S. impacted PSB, resu lting in a decrease in rental income for PSB’s “same park” facilities. It is uncertain what impact the current recessionary trends will have on PSB’s future occupancy levels and rental rents. Due to capital market dislocations and other factors, PSB did not acquire any new commercial space in 2009 and 2008; however, in 2010, PSB acquired a total of 2.4 million net rentable square feet of commercial space for an aggregate cost of approximately $301.7 million. On February 9, 2011, we loaned PSB $121 million which PSB used to re-pay borrowings against their credit facility and repurchase preferred stock. The loan has a six-month term, no prepayment penalties, and bears interest at a rate of three-month LIBOR plus 0.85%. 

Capitalize on the potential for growth in Europe: On March 31, 2008, we entered into a transaction with an institutional investor whereby the investor acquired a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe. Shurgard Europe held substantially all of our operations in Europe. Since March 31, 2008, we own the remaining 49% interest and are the managing member of Shurgard European Holdings LLC, a joint venture formed to own Shurgard Europe’s operations. 

We believe that Shurgard Europe is the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in Western Europe. At December 31, 2010, Shurgard Europe’s operations comprise 188 facilities with an aggregate of approximately 10 million net rentable square feet. The portfolio consists of 116 wholly owned facilities and 72 facilities owned by two joint venture partnerships, in which Shurgard Europe has a 20% equity interest. 

Shurgard Europe operates in seven markets in Western Europe: the French market (principally Paris), the Swedish market (principally Stockholm), the United Kingdom market (principally London), the Dutch market, the Belgian market, the Danish market (principally Copenhagen) and the German market. 

In contrast to the U.S., the European self-storage industry is relatively immature. In each of the markets that Shurgard Europe operates, customer awareness of the product is relatively low and ownership of self-storage facilities remains fragmented. Although many European consumers are not yet aware of the self-storage concept, they tend to live in more densely populated areas in smaller living spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe, should make self-storage an attractive option as product knowledge and availability of additional self-storage facilities grows. Most Europeans are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary service provided by moving companies, and more consumer familiarity could result in a significant increase in demand in the long-term. 

7 

In the longer term, we believe that there is significant growth potential in Europe to expand the number of facilities owned either through development, acquisition, and consolidation, even if the density of self-storage in Europe does not ultimately approach the levels in the U.S. Capitalizing on this opportunity will require a significant amount of capital and currently Shurgard Europe’s ability to raise capital at attractive rates from the European public debt and equity markets, as well as from banks, is constrained. In addition, Shurgard Europe faces refinancing risk, as approximately $125.2 million (€94.5 million) and $147.5 million (€111.3 million) of debt owed by joint ventures matures in May 2011, with a right to extend one year, and July 2013, respectively, and approximately $495.2 mil lion (€373.7 million) in a loan payable to us becomes due in March 2013. Due to these capital constraints and refinancing risks, Shurgard Europe has interrupted its development and growth plans. At such time that public market capital or bank debt becomes available to Shurgard Europe at attractive rates, and economic trends improve, development and growth may recommence; however, there can be no assurance that such development and growth will ultimately recommence and at what levels. 

Financing of the Company’s Growth Strategies 

Overview of financing strategy: Over the past three years we funded the cash portion of our acquisition and development activities with permanent capital (predominantly retained cash flow and the net proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities). We have elected to use preferred securities as a form of leverage despite the fact that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market interest rates on conventional debt, because of certain benefits described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.’’ Our present intention is to continue to finance substantially all our growth with cash a nd marketable securities on hand ($558.5 million at December 31, 2010), internally generated cash flows and permanent capital. 

Impact of Current Capital Markets: Our ability to raise additional capital by issuing our common or preferred securities is dependent upon capital market conditions. Capital markets in the U.S. have improved from the severe stress experienced in late 2008 and early 2009, and we have recently issued preferred shares at favorable rates (in April and May, 2010, we issued cumulative preferred shares at a rate of 6.875% for gross proceeds of $145 million, and in October 2010 we issued cumulative preferred shares at a rate of 6.500% for gross proceeds of $125 million). Despite our recent issuances of preferred equity, there can be no assurance that market conditions will continue to permit preferred security issuances at amounts and a t rates that we will find attractive. 

Borrowing: We have in the past used our $300 million revolving line of credit as temporary “bridge” financing, and repaid those amounts with permanent capital. Our debt outstanding currently represents debt that was assumed either in connection with property acquisitions or in connection with the merger with Shurgard in 2006. When we have assumed such debt in the past, we have generally prepaid such amounts except in cases where the nature of the loan terms did not allow such prepayment, or where a prepayment penalty made it economically disadvantageous to prepay. While it is not our present intention to issue additional debt as a long-term financing strategy, we have broad powers to borrow in furtherance of our obj ectives without a vote of our shareholders. These powers are subject to a limitation on unsecured borrowings in our Bylaws described in “Limitations on Debt” below. 

Our senior debt was recently upgraded to an “A” credit rating by Standard and Poor’s. Notwithstanding our desire is to continue to meet our capital needs with preferred and common equity, this high rating, combined with our low level of debt, could allow us to issue a significant amount of unsecured debt in the current markets if we were to choose to do so. 

Issuance of securities in exchange for property: We have issued both our common and preferred securities in exchange for real estate and other investments in the past. Future issuances will be dependent upon our financing needs and capital market conditions at the time, including the market prices of our equity securities. 

Joint Venture financing: We have formed and may form additional joint ventures to facilitate the funding of future developments or acquisitions. 

8 

Disposition of properties: Disposition of properties to raise capital has not been one of our strategies. Generally, we have disposed of self-storage facilities only because of condemnation proceedings, which compel us to sell. We do not presently intend to sell any significant number of self-storage facilities in the future, though there can be no assurance that we will not. 

Investments in Real Estate and Real Estate Entities 

Investment Policies and Practices with respect to our investments: Following are our investment practices and policies which, though we do not anticipate any significant alteration, can be changed by our Board of Trustees without a shareholder vote: 

  ·    Our investments primarily consist of direct ownership of self-storage facilities (the nature of our self-storage facilities is described in Item 2, “Properties”), as well as partial interests in entities that own self-storage facilities.    

  ·    Our partial ownership interests primarily reflect general and limited partnership interests in entities that own self-storage facilities that are managed by us under the “Public Storage” brand name in the U.S., as well as storage facilities managed in Europe under the “Shurgard” brand name which are owned by Shurgard Europe.    

  ·    Additional acquired interests in real estate (other than the acquisition of properties from third parties) will include common equity interests in entities in which we already have an interest.    

  ·    To a lesser extent, we have interests in existing commercial properties (described in Item 2, “Properties”), containing commercial and industrial rental space, primarily through our investment in PSB.    

Facilities Owned by Subsidiaries 

In addition to our direct ownership of 1,922 self-storage facilities in the U.S. and one self-storage facility in London, England at December 31, 2010, we have controlling indirect interests in entities that own 107 self-storage facilities in the U.S. with approximately 6 million net rentable square feet. Due to our controlling interest in each of these entities, we consolidate the assets, liabilities, and results of operations of these entities in our financial statements. 

Facilities Owned by Unconsolidated Entities 

At December 31, 2010, we had ownership interests in (i) PSB, which owned approximately 21.8 million net rentable square feet of commercial space at December 31, 2010, (ii) Shurgard Europe, which had ownership interests in 188 facilities with approximately 10 million net rentable square feet of storage space, and (iii) various affiliated limited partnerships that own an aggregate of 19 self-storage facilities with approximately 1 million net rentable square feet of storage space. Collectively these entities are referred to as the “Unconsolidated Entities.” 

PSB, which files financial statements with the SEC, and Shurgard Europe, have debt and other obligations that are not included in our consolidated financial statements. The limited partnerships have no significant amounts of debt or other obligations. See Note 5 to our December 31, 2010 consolidated financial statements for further disclosure regarding the assets, liabilities and operating results of the Unconsolidated Entities. 

Limitations on Debt 

Without the consent of holders of the various series of Senior Preferred Shares, we may not take any action that would result in a ratio of ''Debt'' to ''Assets'' (the ''Debt Ratio'') in excess of 50%. As of December 31, 2010, the Debt Ratio was approximately 4%. ''Debt'' means the liabilities (other than ''accrued and other liabilities'' and “redeemable noncontrolling interests'') that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on our consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination. ''Assets'' means our total assets before a reduction for accumulated depreciation and amortization that should, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, be reflected on the consolidated balance sheet at the time of determination. 

9 

Our bank and senior unsecured debt agreements contain various customary financial covenants, including limitations on the level of indebtedness and the prohibition of the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of defined events of default. 

Employees 

We have approximately 4,900 employees in the U.S. at December 31, 2010 who render services on behalf of the Company, primarily personnel engaged in property operations. 

Seasonality 

We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the occupancy levels of self-storage facilities with occupancies generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months. We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months. 

Insurance 

We have historically carried customary property, earthquake, general liability and workers compensation coverage through internationally recognized insurance carriers, subject to customary levels of deductibles. The aggregate limits on these policies of $75 million for property coverage and $102 million for general liability are higher than estimates of maximum probable loss that could occur from individual catastrophic events determined in recent engineering and actuarial studies; however, in case of multiple catastrophic events, these limits could be exhausted. 

Our tenant insurance program reinsures a program that provides insurance to certificate holders against claims for property losses due to specific named perils (earthquakes and floods are not covered by these policies) to goods stored by tenants at our self-storage facilities for individual limits up to a maximum of $5,000. We have third-party insurance coverage for claims paid exceeding $1,000,000 resulting from any one individual event, to a limit of $25,000,000. At December 31, 2010, there were approximately 621,000 certificate holders held by our tenants participating in this program, representing aggregate coverage of approximately $1.4 billion. Because each certificate represents insurance of goods held by a tenant at our self-storage facilities, the geographic concentration of this $1.4 billion in coverage is dispersed throughout all of our U.S. facilities. We rely on a third-party insurance company to provide the insurance and are subject to licensing requirements and regulations in several states. 

10 

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors