Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

As a global business, we operate in multiple foreign currencies and issue debt in the capital markets. Our regional treasury centers use derivative financial instruments, such as forward foreign exchange contracts, as an economic hedge to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We use derivative financial instruments, such as fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps, to manage the cost of debt more efficiently.

As a result of using derivative instruments, we are exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, we have a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based on specific minimum credit standards and other factors. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

We evaluate the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other relevant market risks on our derivative instruments. We periodically determine the potential loss from market risk on our derivative instruments by performing a value-at-risk, or VaR, analysis. VaR is a statistical model that utilizes historical currency exchange and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on future earnings of our derivative financial instruments assuming normal market conditions. The VaR model is not intended to represent actual losses but is used as a risk estimation and management tool. Based on the results of the model, we estimate with 95% confidence a maximum one-day change in the net fair value of our derivative financial instruments at December 31, 2014 was not significant.

Foreign Exchange Risk

Our results of operations are subject to risk from the translation to U.S. Dollars of the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations, which are generally denominated in their local currency. The effects of currency exchange rate fluctuation on the translation of our results of operations are discussed in Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements. For the most part, revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are denominated in the same currency, which minimizes the economic impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our results of operations.

While our major non-U.S. currency markets are the European Monetary Union, the United Kingdom, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China and Japan, our agencies conduct business in more than 50 different currencies. As an integral part of our treasury operations, we centralize our cash and use multicurrency pool arrangements to manage the foreign exchange risk between subsidiaries and their respective treasury centers from which they borrow or invest funds. In certain circumstances, instead of using a multicurrency pool, operations can borrow or invest on an intercompany basis with a treasury center operating in a different currency. To manage the foreign exchange risk associated with these transactions, we use forward foreign exchange contracts. At December 31, 2014, we had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $113.1 million mitigating the foreign exchange risk of the intercompany borrowing and investment activities. Also, we use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the foreign currency risk associated with activities when revenue and expenses are not denominated in the same currency. In these instances, amounts are promptly settled or hedged with forward contracts. At December 31, 2014, we had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts with an aggregate notional amount of $44.0 million mitigating the foreign exchange risk of these activities. We designate foreign currency derivative instruments as an economic hedge; therefore, any gain or loss in fair value incurred on those instruments is generally offset by decreases or increases in the fair value of the underlying exposures. By using these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk of adverse foreign exchange changes by foregoing any gain (reward) which might have occurred if the markets moved favorably.

28

Interest Rate Risk

Our exposure to interest rate risk has been limited because our Senior Notes are fixed rate debt. In 2014, to manage our annual interest cost more efficiently by benefiting from a decline in interest rates, we used fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps to convert specific fixed rate debt into variable rate debt. In 2014, we entered into fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps on the $1.25 billion principal amount of the 2022 Notes and the $1 billion principal amount of the 2020 Notes. Under the swap agreements, we receive fixed interest rate payments equal to the coupon interest rate on the 2022 Notes and the 2020 Notes and we pay a variable interest rate on the total principal amount of the notes, equal to three month LIBOR in arrears, plus a spread of 1.05% on the 2022 Notes and a spread of 2.16% on the 2020 Notes. The swaps have the economic effect of converting the 2022 Notes and the 2020 Notes from fixed rate debt to floating rate debt and effectively convert our long-term debt portfolio to 50% fixed rate debt and 50% floating rate debt. At December 31, 2014, we recorded a receivable, which is included in other assets, of $42.7 million representing the fair value of the swaps that was substantially offset by the increase in the carrying value of the 2022 Notes and the 2020 Notes reflecting the change in fair value of the notes.

Credit Risk

We provide advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to several thousand clients who operate in nearly every industry sector of the global economy and we grant credit to qualified clients in the normal course of business. Due to the diversified nature of our client base, we do not believe that we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk as our largest client accounted for 2.6% of revenue in 2014 and no other client accounted for more than 2.5% of revenue. However, during periods of economic downturn, the credit profiles of our clients could change.

In the normal course of our business, our agencies enter into contractual commitments with media providers and production companies on behalf of our clients at levels that can substantially exceed the revenue from our services. These commitments are included in accounts payable when the services are delivered by the media providers or production companies. If permitted by local law and the client agreement, many of our agencies purchase media and production services for our clients as an agent for a disclosed principal. In addition, while operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets, many of our agencies’ contracts with media and production providers specify that our agencies are not liable to the media and production providers under the theory of sequential liability until and to the extent we have been paid by our client for the media or production services.

Where purchases of media and production services are made by our agencies as a principal or are not subject to the theory of sequential liability, the risk of a material loss as a result of payment default by our clients could increase significantly and such a loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position.

In addition, methods of managing the risk of payment defaults, including obtaining credit insurance, requiring payment in advance, mitigating the potential loss in the marketplace or negotiating with media providers, may be less available or unavailable during a severe economic downturn.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data