Item 1. Business

Our Business

Omnicom is a strategic holding company and was formed in 1986 by the merger of several leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies. As a leading global provider of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services, we operate in a highly competitive industry. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and mediums, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing services designed to make the best use of their total marketing expenditures.

Our branded networks and agencies operate in all major markets around the world and provide a comprehensive range of services, which we group into four fundamental disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, public relations and specialty communications. The services included in these disciplines are:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Although the medium used to reach a client’s target audience may differ across each of these disciplines, we develop and deliver the marketing message in a similar way by providing client-specific advertising and marketing services.

Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is to deliver our services and allocate our resources based on the specific requirements of our clients. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they have tended to consolidate their business with larger, multi-disciplinary agencies or integrated groups of agencies. Accordingly, our business model requires that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to 

 1

execute against our clients’ specific marketing requirements. We believe that this organizational philosophy, and our ability to execute it, differentiates us from our competitors.

Our agency networks and our virtual networks provide us with the ability to integrate services across all disciplines and geographies. This means that the delivery of our services can, and does, take place across agencies, networks and geographic regions simultaneously. Further, we believe that our virtual network strategy facilitates better integration of services required by the demands of the marketplace for our services. Our over-arching business strategy is to continue to use our virtual networks to grow our business relationships with our clients.

The various components of our business and material factors that affected us in 2014 are discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, of this report. None of our acquisitions or dispositions, individually or in the aggregate, in the three year period ended December 31, 2014 was material to our financial position or results of operations. For information concerning our acquisitions, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.

Geographic Regions and Segments

Our revenue is almost evenly divided between our United States and international operations. As discussed more fully in the Critical Accounting Policies section of the MD&A, we conduct our business on a global basis through our five branded agency networks, which operate in the following geographic regions: The Americas, which includes North America and Latin America; EMEA, which includes Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and, Asia Pacific, which includes Australia, China, India, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, Singapore and other Asian countries. The agency networks have regional reporting units that are responsible for the agencies in their region. Agencies within the regional reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries and in many cases the same clients and have similar economic characteristics. Accordingly, we aggregate and monitor our agencies on a regional basis. Given the strategic emphasis we place on the geographic regions in which we operate, we provide financial information by geographic region in the MD&A and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

Our Clients

Our clients operate in virtually every industry sector of the global economy. In many cases, multiple agencies or networks serve different brand and/or product groups within the same clients. For example, in 2014, our largest client was served by more than 200 of our agencies and represented 2.6% of revenue and no other client accounted for more than 2.5% of revenue. In 2014, our top 100 clients, ranked by revenue, were each served, on average, by more than 50 of our agencies and collectively represented approximately 50% of revenue.

Our Employees

At December 31, 2014, we employed approximately 74,000 people. We are not party to any significant collective bargaining agreements. The skill sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and their selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our client service professionals around this competency. See the MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

At January 30, 2015, our executive officers were:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2

Each executive officer has held his present position for at least five years, except: Mr. Angelastro was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in September 2014, prior to that, Mr. Angelastro served as Senior Vice President Finance and Controller since 2002; Mr. Castellaneta was named Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer in January 2015, prior to that he served as Assistant Controller since 2000; and, Mr. Swieciciki was named Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller in January 2015, prior to that he served as Director of Business Operations since 2013 and held various positions with BBDO Worldwide for more than five years.

Additional information about our directors and executive officers will appear in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the SEC by April 8, 2015.

Item 1A. Risk Factors