ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
         ------------

     In addition to the other information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K, you
should  consider  the risks  described  below that we believe may be material to
investors in  evaluating  the Company.  This  section  contains  forward-looking
statements,  and in  considering  these  statements,  you  should  refer  to the
qualifications  and  limitations  on our  forward-looking  statements  that  are
described in Forward Looking Statements at the beginning of Item 1.

SINCE OUR BUSINESS CONSISTS PRIMARILY OF ACQUIRING AND OPERATING REAL ESTATE, WE
ARE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS RELATED TO THE OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF REAL ESTATE.

     The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate
ownership.  Since we derive  substantially  all of our income  from real  estate
operations,  we are subject to the general  risks of owning real  estate-related
assets, including:

     o    lack of demand for rental spaces or units in a locale;

     o    changes in general economic or local conditions;

     o    natural disasters, such as earthquakes and floods;

     o    potential terrorist attacks;

     o    changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing  facilities in
          an area;

     o    the impact of environmental protection laws;

                                       16

<PAGE>


     o    changes in interest rates and availability of permanent mortgage funds
          which may  render the sale of a  nonstrategic  property  difficult  or
          unattractive including the impact of the current turmoil in the credit
          markets;

     o    increases in insurance  premiums,  property tax  assessments and other
          operating and maintenance expenses;

     o    adverse  changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and  regulations;
          and

     o    tenant and employment-related claims.

     In addition,  we self-insure certain of our property loss,  liability,  and
workers  compensation  risks for  which  other  real  estate  companies  may use
third-party  insurers.  This  results  in a higher  risk of losses  that are not
covered  by  third-party  insurance  contracts,  as  described  in Note 16 under
"Insurance  and Loss  Exposure"  to our  consolidated  financial  statements  at
December 31, 2007.

     THERE IS SIGNIFICANT  COMPETITION  AMONG  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES AND FROM
OTHER STORAGE ALTERNATIVES.  Most of our properties are self-storage facilities,
which generated most of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007.  Local
market  conditions will play a significant  part in how competition  will affect
us.  Competition in the market areas in which many of our properties are located
from other self-storage facilities and other storage alternatives is significant
and has affected the occupancy  levels,  rental rates and operating  expenses of
some of our properties.  Any increase in availability of funds for investment in
real estate may accelerate  competition.  Further  development  of  self-storage
facilities may intensify competition among operators of self-storage  facilities
in the market areas in which we operate.

     WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT  ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS AND LIABILITIES.  As an owner
and  operator  of real  properties,  under  various  federal,  state  and  local
environmental  laws,  we are  required  to clean up spills or other  releases of
hazardous or toxic substances on or from our properties.  Certain  environmental
laws impose liability  whether or not the owner knew of, or was responsible for,
the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances.  In some cases, liability may
not be limited to the value of the property.  The presence of these  substances,
or the failure to properly remediate any resulting  contamination,  whether from
environmental  or microbial  issues,  also may  adversely  affect the owner's or
operator's ability to sell, lease or operate its property or to borrow using its
property as collateral.

     We have  conducted  preliminary  environmental  assessments  of most of our
properties (and intend to conduct these  assessments in connection with property
acquisitions)  to  evaluate  the  environmental   condition  of,  and  potential
environmental  liabilities  associated with, our properties.  These  assessments
generally  consist  of an  investigation  of  environmental  conditions  at  the
property (not including soil or groundwater sampling or analysis),  as well as a
review of available  information  regarding the site and publicly available data
regarding  conditions at other sites in the vicinity.  In connection  with these
property assessments,  our operations and recent property acquisitions,  we have
become aware that prior  operations  or  activities  at some  facilities or from
nearby  locations  have or may have  resulted  in  contamination  to the soil or
groundwater at these facilities.  In this regard,  some of our facilities are or
may be the subject of federal or state environmental  investigations or remedial
actions. We have obtained,  with respect to recent  acquisitions,  and intend to
obtain  with  respect to pending or future  acquisitions,  appropriate  purchase
price  adjustments or  indemnifications  that we believe are sufficient to cover
any related potential liability. Although we cannot provide any assurance, based
on the preliminary environmental assessments, we believe we have funds available
to  cover  any  liability   from   environmental   contamination   or  potential
contamination  and we are not aware of any  environmental  contamination  of our
facilities  material to our overall business,  financial condition or results of
operations.

     There has been an increasing number of claims and litigation against owners
and managers of rental properties relating to moisture  infiltration,  which can
result in mold or other property damage. When we receive a complaint  concerning
moisture infiltration, condensation or mold problems and/or become aware that an
air quality concern exists, we implement  corrective measures in accordance with
guidelines  and  protocols  we have  developed  with the  assistance  of outside
experts.  We seek to work  proactively  with our  tenants  to  resolve  moisture
infiltration and mold-related issues, subject to our contractual  limitations on

                                       17

<PAGE>

liability for such claims. However, we can give no assurance that material legal
claims  relating to moisture  infiltration  and the presence of, or exposure to,
mold will not arise in the future.

     DELAYS IN  DEVELOPMENT  AND  FILL-UP  OF OUR  PROPERTIES  WOULD  REDUCE OUR
PROFITABILITY.  From January 1, 2003,  through December 31, 2007, we have opened
34 newly  developed  self-storage  facilities in the U.S. and,  since August 22,
2006, 15 newly  developed  facilities in Europe.  In addition,  our  development
"pipeline"  in the United  States and Europe at December  31, 2007 consist of 43
projects  with  total  estimated  costs  of  $251  million.  We  anticipate  the
development  of these  43  projects  to be  completed  in the  next  two  years.
Construction  delays  due to  weather,  unforeseen  site  conditions,  personnel
problems,  and other factors,  as well as cost overruns,  would adversely affect
our  profitability.  Delays in the rent-up of newly developed storage space as a
result  of  competition  or  other  factors  would  also  adversely  impact  our
profitability.

     PROPERTY  TAXES CAN INCREASE AND CAUSE A DECLINE IN YIELDS ON  INVESTMENTS.
Each of our  properties is subject to real property  taxes.  These real property
taxes may  increase  in the  future as  property  tax  rates  change  and as our
properties are assessed or reassessed by tax  authorities.  Such increases could
adversely impact our profitability.

     WE MUST COMPLY WITH THE AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT AND FIRE AND SAFETY
REGULATIONS, WHICH CAN REQUIRE SIGNIFICANT EXPENDITURES. All our properties must
comply with the Americans  with  Disabilities  Act and with related  regulations
(the  "ADA").  The  ADA  has  separate   compliance   requirements  for  "public
accommodations"  and  "commercial   facilities,"  but  generally  requires  that
buildings be made  accessible to persons with  disabilities.  Various state laws
impose similar  requirements.  A failure to comply with the ADA or similar state
laws could result in  government  imposed fines on us and could award damages to
individuals affected by the failure. In addition, we must operate our properties
in compliance with numerous local fire and safety  regulations,  building codes,
and other land use regulations.  Compliance with these  requirements can require
us to spend  substantial  amounts of money,  which would  reduce cash  otherwise
available  for  distribution  to  shareholders.  Failure  to comply  with  these
requirements could also affect the marketability of our real estate facilities.

     WE INCUR LIABILITY FROM TENANT AND EMPLOYMENT-RELATED  CLAIMS. From time to
time we must resolve  tenant claims and  employment-related  claims by corporate
level and field personnel.

WE GROW OUR BUSINESS PRIMARILY THROUGH  ACQUISITIONS OF EXISTING  PROPERTIES AND
ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO ACQUISITIONS.

     We grow our  business  in large part  through the  acquisition  of existing
properties,   including  acquisitions  of  businesses  owned  by  other  storage
operators.  In addition to the general  risks  related to real estate  described
above which may also adversely impact operations at acquired properties,  we are
also subject to the following risks in connection with property acquisitions and
the integration of acquired properties into our operations.

     ANY FAILURE BY US TO MANAGE ACQUISITIONS AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS
SUCCESSFULLY  COULD NEGATIVELY  IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL  RESULTS.  As an increasing
part of our business, we acquire other self-storage facilities. We also evaluate
from time to time other  significant  transactions.  If these facilities are not
properly integrated into our system, our financial results may suffer.

     ANY FAILURE TO SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATE ACQUIRED OPERATIONS WITH OUR EXISTING
BUSINESS COULD  NEGATIVELY  IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL  RESULTS.  To fully realize any
anticipated  benefits from an  acquisition,  we must  successfully  complete the
combination  of the  businesses of Public  Storage and acquired  properties in a
manner  that  permits  cost  savings to be  realized.  It is  possible  that the
integration  process could result in a decline in occupancy and/or rental rates,
the  disruption  of each  company's  ongoing  businesses or  inconsistencies  in
standards,   controls,   procedures,   practices,   policies  and   compensation
arrangements  that adversely affect our ability to maintain  relationships  with
tenants and  employees or to achieve  anticipated  benefits,  particularly  with
large acquisitions.

     AS A RESULT OF OUR ACQUISITION OF THE INTERNATIONAL  OPERATIONS OF SHURGARD
IN  EUROPE,  WE  ARE  EXPOSED  TO  ADDITIONAL  RISKS  RELATED  TO  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESSES.  We have  limited  experience  in  European  operations,  which  may
adversely impact our ability to operate profitably in Europe. In addition, these
operations  have specific  inherent  risks,  including  without  limitation  the
following:

     o    currency risks,  including currency  fluctuations and risks related to
          foreign currency hedging activities;

                                       18

<PAGE>

     o    unexpected changes in legislative and regulatory requirements;

     o    potentially adverse tax burdens;

     o    burdens   of   complying   with   different   permitting    standards,
          environmental and labor laws and a wide variety of foreign laws;

     o    obstacles to the repatriation of earnings and cash;

     o    regional, national and local political uncertainty;

     o    economic slowdown and/or downturn in foreign markets;

     o    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;

     o    reduced protection for intellectual property in some countries; and

     o    inability to effectively  control less than wholly-owned  partnerships
          and joint ventures.

     SOME ACQUIRED PROPERTIES ARE SUBJECT TO PROPERTY TAX REAPPRAISALS WHICH MAY
INCREASE OUR PROPERTY TAX  EXPENSE.  Some of the  facilities  we acquired in the
Shurgard  Merger have been,  and will  continue to be,  subject to property  tax
reappraisal  that could increase  property tax expense and adversely  affect our
profitability.  Up to 17% of the domestic  properties  we acquired in the merger
are located in jurisdictions  that may provide for property tax reappraisal upon
a change of ownership and so may face further reassessment.

WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE THE CONTEMPLATED INVESTMENT BY A THIRD
PARTY TO ACQUIRE A SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF SHURGARD EUROPE.

     We have announced that we have entered into an agreement in principle for a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% interest in Shurgard Europe.  However, no
binding agreement has been signed with the prospective  investor and there is no
assurance that a binding  agreement will be signed or that the transaction  will
be  completed.  We may be unable for any  reason to  finalize  negotiations  and
completion of a possible transaction involving Shurgard Europe, and there can be
no guarantee  that any  transaction  involving the  acquisition by a prospective
purchaser of an interest in Shurgard Europe will occur.

WE ARE  SUBJECT TO RISKS  RELATED TO OUR  OWNERSHIP  OF ASSETS IN JOINT  VENTURE
STRUCTURES.

     In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Shurgard,  we acquired interests
in several joint ventures that owned properties.  Joint ventures have additional
risks, including without limitation, the following:

     o    Risks related to the financial  strength,  common  business  goals and
          strategies and cooperation of the venture partner.

     o    The  inability to take some actions with respect to the joint  venture
          activities  that we may believe are  favorable,  if our joint  venture
          partner does not agree.

     o    The risk that we could lose our REIT status  based upon actions of the
          joint ventures if we are unable to effectively  control these indirect
          investments.

     o    The risk that we may not  control  the legal  entity that has title to
          the real estate.

     o    The risk that our investments in these entities may not be easily sold
          or readily accepted as collateral by our lenders,  or that lenders may
          view joint ventured assets as less favorable as collateral.

     o    The risk that the joint  ventures could take actions that we could not
          prevent,  which could result in negative  rating agency impacts to our
          preferred stock and debt.

     o    The risk that we may be constrained from certain activities of our own
          that we would otherwise deem favorable,  due to noncompete  clauses in
          our joint venture arrangements.

                                       19

<PAGE>

     o    The risk  that we will be unable to  resolve  disputes  with our joint
          venture  partners.  We are  currently  engaged  in  legal  proceedings
          including  arbitration  and  litigation  with  certain  joint  venture
          partners in the United States and Europe.

THE  HUGHES  FAMILY  COULD  CONTROL  US  AND  TAKE  ACTIONS   ADVERSE  TO  OTHER
SHAREHOLDERS.

     At December 31, 2007,  B. Wayne  Hughes,  Chairman of the Board of Trustees
and his family (the "Hughes Family") owned  approximately 25.3% of our aggregate
outstanding common shares. Our declaration of trust permits the Hughes Family to
own up to 47.66% of our  outstanding  common  shares.  Consequently,  the Hughes
family may or could  control  matters  submitted to a vote of our  shareholders,
including electing trustees,  amending our organizational documents,  dissolving
and approving other extraordinary transactions, such as a takeover attempt, even
though such actions may not be favorable to other shareholders.

CERTAIN  PROVISIONS OF MARYLAND LAW AND IN OUR  DECLARATION  OF TRUST AND BYLAWS
MAY  PREVENT  CHANGES IN  CONTROL  OR  OTHERWISE  DISCOURAGE  TAKEOVER  ATTEMPTS
BENEFICIAL TO STOCKHOLDERS.

     Maryland law limits certain business combinations and changes of control of
the  Company  unless  the Board  affirmatively  elects  not to be covered by the
statutory  provisions.  Currently,  the Board  has  opted  out of the  statutory
limitations of both statutes.  However,  the Board may in the future elect to be
covered  under  the  business  combination  provisions  and  the  control  share
acquisitions  provisions of Maryland law. The business combination provisions of
Maryland  law (in the event our Board opts to make them  applicable  to us), the
control  share  acquisition  provisions  of  Maryland  law  (if  the  applicable
provision in our bylaws is rescinded), limitations on removal of trustees in our
declaration  of  trust,  restrictions  on  the  acquisition  of  our  shares  of
beneficial  interest,  the power to issue  additional  common shares,  preferred
shares or equity  shares and the advance  notice  provisions of our bylaws could
have the effect of delaying,  deterring or preventing a transaction  or a change
in control that might  involve a premium  price for holders of the common shares
or might otherwise be in their best interest. Certain provisions of Maryland law
permit our board of trustees,  without  shareholder  approval and  regardless of
what is provided in our  declaration of trust or bylaws,  to implement  takeover
defenses that we may not yet have and to take,  or refrain from taking,  certain
other actions without those  decisions being subject to any heightened  standard
of conduct or  standard  of review as such  decisions  may be subject in certain
other jurisdictions.

     To preserve our status as a REIT under the Code,  our  declaration of trust
contains  limitations  on the number and value of shares of beneficial  interest
that any person may own. These ownership limitations generally limit the ability
of a person,  other than the Hughes  Family (as  defined in our  declaration  of
trust)  and other  than  "designated  investment  entities"  (as  defined in our
declaration of trust),  to own more than 3% of our outstanding  common shares or
9.9% of the  outstanding  shares of any class or series of  preferred  or equity
shares,  in  each  case,  in  value  or  number  of  shares,  whichever  is more
restrictive,  unless an  exemption  is granted by our board of  trustees.  These
limitations could discourage,  delay or prevent a transaction involving a change
in control of our company not approved by our board of trustees.

IF WE FAILED TO QUALIFY  AS A REIT,  WE WOULD BE TAXED AS A  CORPORATION,  WHICH
WOULD SUBSTANTIALLY REDUCE FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS.

     Investors are subject to the risk that we may not qualify as a REIT.  REITs
are subject to a range of complex  organizational and operational  requirements.
As a REIT, we must distribute with respect to each year at least 90% of our REIT
taxable  income  to our  shareholders  (which  may  take  into  account  certain
dividends paid in the subsequent year).  Other  restrictions apply to our income
and assets. Our REIT status is also dependent upon the ongoing  qualification of
our affiliate, PSB, as a REIT, as a result of our substantial ownership interest
in that company.

     For any  taxable  year that we fail to  qualify as a REIT and are unable to
avail ourselves of certain savings provisions set forth in the Code, we would be
subject  to  federal  income tax at the  regular  corporate  rates on all of our
taxable income,  whether or not we make any  distributions to our  shareholders.
Those taxes would reduce the amount of cash  available for  distribution  to our

                                       20

<PAGE>

shareholders or for reinvestment  and would adversely affect our earnings.  As a
result,  our failure to qualify as a REIT  during any taxable  year could have a
material  adverse  effect  upon us and  our  shareholders.  Furthermore,  unless
certain relief  provisions  apply, we would not be eligible to elect REIT status
again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we
fail to qualify.

     We have also assumed, based on public filings, that Shurgard qualified as a
REIT.  However, if Shurgard failed to qualify as a REIT, we generally would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities  (including the significant
tax  liability  that  would  have  resulted  from the  deemed  sale of assets by
Shurgard pursuant to the merger).

WE MAY PAY SOME TAXES, REDUCING CASH AVAILABLE FOR SHAREHOLDERS.

     Even if we  qualify  as a REIT for  federal  income  tax  purposes,  we are
required to pay some federal,  foreign,  state and local taxes on our income and
property.  Since January 1, 2001, certain corporate  subsidiaries of the Company
(including certain subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Shurgard merger)
have  elected to be treated as "taxable  REIT  subsidiaries"  of the Company for
federal income tax purposes.  A taxable REIT  subsidiary is taxable as a regular
corporation and is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us
in excess of a certain  amount.  In  addition,  if we receive or accrue  certain
amounts  and  the  underlying  economic  arrangements  among  our  taxable  REIT
subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar  arrangements  among unrelated
parties, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on those payments in excess of
amounts deemed  reasonable  between  unrelated  parties.  To the extent that the
Company or any taxable  REIT  subsidiary  is required to pay  federal,  foreign,
state or local  taxes,  we will have less cash  available  for  distribution  to
shareholders.

WE HAVE BECOME INCREASINGLY  DEPENDENT UPON AUTOMATED PROCESSES AND THE INTERNET
AND ARE FACED WITH SECURITY SYSTEM RISKS.

     We have  become  increasingly  centralized  and  dependent  upon  automated
information technology processes.  As a result, we could be severely impacted by
a catastrophic occurrence,  such as a natural disaster or a terrorist attack. In
addition,  a portion of our business operations are conducted over the Internet,
increasing the risk of viruses that could cause system  failures and disruptions
of operations.  Experienced  computer  programmers  may be able to penetrate our
network security and misappropriate our confidential information,  create system
disruptions or cause shutdowns.

WE HAVE NO  INTEREST  IN CANADIAN  SELF-STORAGE  FACILITIES  OWNED BY THE HUGHES
FAMILY.

     The Hughes Family has ownership interests in, and operates, 48 self-storage
facilities  in Canada under the name  "Public  Storage." We currently do not own
any interests in these  facilities  nor do we own any  facilities in Canada.  We
have a right of first refusal to acquire the stock or assets of the  corporation
engaged in the operation of the self-storage  facilities in Canada if the Hughes
family or the  corporation  agrees to sell them.  However,  we have no ownership
interest in the operations of this  corporation,  have no right to acquire their
stock or assets unless the Hughes family decides to sell, and receive no benefit
from the profits and increases in value of the Canadian self-storage facilities.

     Prior  to  December  31,  2003,  Company  personnel  were  engaged  in  the
supervision  and  the  operation  of  these   properties  and  provided  certain
administrative  services for the Canadian  owners,  and certain other  services,
primarily tax services,  with respect to certain other Hughes Family  interests.
The  Hughes  Family  and the  Canadian  owners  reimbursed  us at cost for these
services in the amount of $542,499 with respect to the Canadian  operations  and
$151,063 for other services during 2003 (in U.S. dollars).  There were conflicts
of interest in allocating time of our personnel between Company properties,  the
Canadian properties,  and certain other Hughes Family interests.  The sharing of
Company  personnel with the Canadian  entities was  substantially  eliminated by
December 31, 2003.

     Through our subsidiaries, we continue to reinsure risks relating to loss of
goods stored by tenants in the  self-storage  facilities in Canada.  We acquired
the tenant insurance business on December 31, 2001 through our acquisition of PS
Insurance  Company,  or PSICH.  For the years ended  December 31, 2007 and 2006,
PSICH received  $906,000 and $989,000,  respectively,  in  reinsurance  premiums
attributable to the Canadian  Facilities.  Since PSICH's right to provide tenant
reinsurance to the Canadian  Facilities may be qualified,  there is no assurance
that these premiums will continue.

                                       21

<PAGE>

INCREASES IN INTEREST RATES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK.

     One of the factors that influence the market price of our common shares and
our other  securities  is the annual  rate of  distributions  that we pay on the
securities,  as compared with interest  rates. An increase in interest rates may
lead purchasers of REIT shares to demand higher annual distribution rates, which
could  adversely  affect  the  market  price  of our  common  shares  and  other
securities.

TERRORIST  ATTACKS  AND THE  POSSIBILITY  OF WIDER  ARMED  CONFLICT  MAY HAVE AN
ADVERSE  IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS  AND  OPERATING  RESULTS AND COULD  DECREASE THE
VALUE OF OUR ASSETS.

     Terrorist  attacks and other acts of  violence  or war,  such as those that
took place on September 11, 2001,  could have a material  adverse  impact on our
business and operating results. There can be no assurance that there will not be
further  terrorist  attacks against the U.S., the European  Community,  or their
businesses or interests.  Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact one or
more of our properties could  significantly  affect our ability to operate those
properties and thereby impair our operating  results.  Further,  we may not have
insurance  coverage for losses caused by a terrorist attack.  Such insurance may
not be available,  or if it is available and we decide to obtain such  terrorist
coverage,  the cost for the insurance may be significant in  relationship to the
risk  overall.  In  addition,  the adverse  effects  that such  violent acts and
threats of future attacks could have on the U.S.  economy could similarly have a
material  adverse  effect on our  business and results of  operations.  Finally,
further  terrorist  acts  could  cause  the  U.S.  to enter  into a wider  armed
conflict, which could further impact our business and operating results.

DEVELOPMENTS IN CALIFORNIA MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS.

     We are headquartered  in, and approximately  one-fifth of our properties in
the U.S. are located in  California.  California is facing  budgetary  problems.
Action that may be taken in response to these  problems,  such as an increase in
property taxes on commercial properties, could adversely impact our business and
results of operations. In addition, we could be adversely impacted by efforts to
reenact  legislation  mandating  medical  insurance  for employees of California
businesses and members of their families.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
- -------- -------------------------

     Not applicable.

                                       22

<PAGE>


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES