ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S  DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_3_LINES]


     The following  discussion and analysis  should be read in conjunction  with
our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

     FORWARD  LOOKING  STATEMENTS:  This  Annual  Report on Form  10-K  contains
forward-looking  statements  within the meaning of the federal  securities laws.
All statements in this document,  other than statements of historical  fact, are
forward-looking  statements  which  may be  identified  by the use of the  words
"expects,"  "believes,"   "anticipates,"   "plans,"  "would,"  "should,"  "may,"
"estimates" and similar expressions.  These  forward-looking  statements involve
known and unknown  risks and  uncertainties,  which may cause  Public  Storage's
actual results and  performance to be materially  different from those expressed
or implied in the forward-looking  statements.  As a result, you should not rely
on any  forward-looking  statements in this report, or which management may make
orally or in writing  from time to time,  as  predictions  of future  events nor
guarantees of future performance.  We caution you not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements, which speak only as the date of this report or as of
the dates indicated in the statements.  All of our  forward-looking  statements,
including  those  in this  report,  are  qualified  in  their  entirely  by this
statement.  We expressly disclaim any obligation to update publicly or otherwise
revise any forward-looking  statements,  whether as a result of new information,
new estimates,  or other factors, events or circumstances after the date of this
document,  except where expressly required by law.  Accordingly,  you should use
caution in relying  on past  forward-looking  statements  to  anticipate  future
results.

     Factors  and risks  that may  impact our  future  results  and  performance
include,  but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and
in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  These
risks include, among others, the following:

     o    general  risks  associated  with the  ownership  and operation of real
          estate  including  changes  in  demand  for  our  storage  facilities,
          potential liability for environmental  contamination,  adverse changes
          in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations, and the impact of
          natural disasters;

     o    risks associated with downturns in the national and local economies in
          the markets in which we operate;

     o    the risk that Public  Storage may for any reason be unable to finalize
          negotiations  and  completion  of  a  possible  transaction  involving
          Shurgard Europe;

     o    the impact of competition from new and existing storage and commercial
          facilities and other storage alternatives;

     o    difficulties  in  our  ability  to  successfully  evaluate,   finance,
          integrate  into our  operations  and  manage  acquired  and  developed
          properties;

     o    risks related to our participation in joint ventures;

     o    risks  associated with  international  operations  including,  but not
          limited to, unfavorable  foreign currency rate fluctuations that could
          adversely affect our earnings and cash flows;

     o    the impact of the regulatory  environment as well as national,  state,
          and local laws and regulations  including,  without limitation,  those
          governing REITs;

     o    risks  associated  with a possible  failure by us to qualify as a REIT
          under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;

     o    disruptions or shutdowns of our automated processes and systems;

     o    difficulties in raising capital at a reasonable cost;

                                       31

<PAGE>

     o    delays in the development process; and

     o    economic uncertainty due to the impact of war or terrorism.

     The  risks  included  here are not  exhaustive  as it is not  possible  for
management  to predict all  possible  risk factors that may exist or emerge from
time to time.  Investors should refer to our quarterly  reports on Form 10-Q for
future periods and current reports on Form 8-K and other  information filed from
time to time with the SEC for additional information.

     OVERVIEW

     Public  Storage was organized in 1980.  Effective  June 1, 2007,  following
approval by our shareholders,  we reorganized  Public Storage,  Inc. into Public
Storage,  a Maryland real estate  investment  trust  (referred to herein as "the
Company",  "the  Trust",  "we",  "us",  or  "our").  We are a fully  integrated,
self-administered  and self-managed  real estate investment trust ("REIT") whose
principal business  activities include the acquisition,  development,  ownership
and operation of self-storage  facilities  which offer storage spaces for lease,
generally on a  month-to-month  basis, for personal and business use. We are the
largest  owner and  operator of  self-storage  facilities  in the United  States
("U.S."),  and we have an interest  in what we believe is the largest  owner and
operator of self-storage  facilities in Europe.  We significantly  increased the
scope and  scale of our  operations  on August  22,  2006,  when we merged  with
Shurgard  Storage Centers,  Inc.,  ("Shurgard" and the merger referred to as the
"Shurgard Merger"), a REIT which had an interest in 487 self-storage  facilities
located in the U.S. and an interest in a platform of self-storage  facilities in
seven Western European countries.

     At December 31, 2007, we had direct and indirect equity  interests in 2,012
self-storage facilities located in 38 states within the U.S. operating under the
"Public Storage" name containing  approximately  126 million net rentable square
feet of space, and 174 self-storage facilities located in seven Western European
countries  which operate under the "Shurgard  Storage  Centers" name  containing
approximately  nine  million net  rentable  square  feet of space.  We also have
direct and indirect equity  interests in  approximately  21 million net rentable
square feet of commercial space located in 11 states in the U.S.  operated under
the "PS Business Parks" and Public Storage brands.

     Competition  in the market  areas in which we operate  is  significant  and
affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses
of our facilities.  Development of new  self-storage  facilities has intensified
the  competition  among  storage  operators  in many  market  areas  in which we
operate.

BUSINESS ATTRIBUTES
- -------------------

     We believe that we possess several primary business  attributes that permit
us to compete effectively:

     CENTRALIZED INFORMATION NETWORKS: Our facilities in the U.S. and Europe are
part of  comprehensive  centralized  reporting and  information  networks  which
enable our U.S.  and  European  management  teams to  identify  changing  market
conditions  and operating  trends as well as analyze  customer data, and quickly
change our properties' pricing and promotional mix on an automated basis.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_5_LINES]

representative  discusses  with  the  customer  space  requirements,  price  and
location  preferences  and also  informs  the  customer  of other  products  and
services  provided  by the  Company and its  subsidiaries.  We believe  that the
centralized  telephone reservation system enhances our ability to market storage
space in the United  States  relative  to  handling  these  calls at  individual
properties,  because  it allows us to more  effectively  offer all spaces at all
facilities  in the  vicinity  of a customer  and we can  provide  higher-quality
selling  efforts  through  dedicated  sales  specialists  trained  in a  central
location. We also provide customers the opportunity to review space availability
and make reservations online through our website, www.publicstorage.com.

                                       32

<PAGE>

     ECONOMIES OF SCALE: We are the largest  provider of  self-storage  space in
the U.S.  and Europe.  As of  December  31,  2007,  we  operated  2,186  storage
facilities  in which we had an interest and managed 31  self-storage  facilities
for third parties.  These facilities are in markets within 38 states in the U.S.
and  seven  Western  European  countries.  At  December  31,  2007,  we had over
1,095,000  self-storage spaces rented. The size and scope of our operations have
enabled us to achieve high operating  margins and a low level of  administrative
costs relative to revenues,  through the  centralization  of many functions with
specialists,  such as facility  maintenance,  employee compensation and benefits
programs,  pricing of our product,  as well as the development and documentation
of  standardized  operating  procedures.  We also  believe that our major market
concentration  provides  managerial  efficiencies  stemming  from having a large
number of facilities in close proximity to each other.

     BRAND NAME RECOGNITION:  Our operations in the U.S. are conducted under the
"Public  Storage"  brand  name,  which we  believe  is the most  recognized  and
established name in the self-storage industry in the U.S. Our storage operations
within the U.S. are conducted in 38 states,  giving us national  recognition and
prominence.  Our facilities  tend to be in highly visible and heavily  populated
areas,  improving  the local  awareness  of our  brand.  Customer  awareness  of
self-storage  in  Europe  is  emerging.  All of our  facilities  in  Europe  are
operating under the "Shurgard Storage Centers" brand name. We believe we are the
single largest self-storage operator in Western Europe as of December 31, 2007.

     MAJOR MARKET  CONCENTRATION  IN THE U.S.:  We focus our  operations  in the
major markets in the U.S., which we believe  enhances our marketing  efficiency.
We can economically purchase large, prominent,  well-placed yellow page ads that
allow us to reach the consumer more effectively than smaller  operators.  We are
also able to purchase and bid aggressively for  multiple-keyword  advertising on
national Internet search engines. In addition, we are able to market efficiently
using television as a media source.  We believe that our competitors  cannot use
television  advertising,  because their limited concentration of facilities does
not  provide a  sufficient  potential  customer  base to offset the high cost of
television advertising.

     In addition,  we believe that in recent years,  zoning requirements in some
of the  major  metropolitan  markets  in  which  we  operate  in the  U.S.  have
increased, resulting in more barriers to new competition. While this has limited
our  new  development  opportunities,  it has  minimized  supply  increases  and
competition with certain of our properties.

     RETAIL OPERATIONS:  Through a taxable REIT subsidiary, we sell retail items
associated  with the  storage  business  and  rent  trucks  at our  self-storage
facilities  in order to  supplement  and  strengthen  the existing  self-storage
business by further meeting the needs of storage customers.

     Each of our self-storage  locations' rental offices sell locks,  boxes, and
packing materials,  while certain of the facilities in the U.S. also rent trucks
primarily  to storage  customers or operate as an agent of  long-distance  truck
rental companies.  These rental offices which conduct these activities  include,
in some cases, larger retail-oriented locations.

     TENANT INSURANCE PROGRAM:  Through taxable REIT  subsidiaries,  we reinsure
policies  issued to our tenants  against lost or damaged goods stored by tenants
in our storage facilities.  These subsidiaries receive the premiums and bear the
risks  associated with the  re-insurance.  We believe that our tenant  insurance
operations further supplement and strengthen the existing  self-storage business
and provide an additional source of earnings for the Company.

GROWTH AND INVESTMENT STRATEGIES
- --------------------------------

     Our growth strategies  consist of: (i) improving the operating  performance
of our existing  self-storage  properties,  (ii) acquiring  properties  that are
owned or  operated  by others  in the  U.S.,  (iii)  expanding  and  repackaging
existing  U.S.  real  estate  facilities,  (iv)  participating  in the growth of
commercial  facilities  owned  primarily  by PSB  and  (v)  capitalizing  on the
potential  growth in the European  market.  These  strategies  are  described as
follows:

     IMPROVE  THE  OPERATING  PERFORMANCE  OF  EXISTING  PROPERTIES:  We seek to
increase the net cash flow generated by our existing self-storage  properties by

                                       33

<PAGE>

a)  regularly   evaluating   our  call   volume,   reservation   activity,   and
move-in/move-out  rates for each of our  properties  relative  to our  marketing
activities, b) evaluating market supply and demand factors and, based upon these
analyses,  adjusting our marketing activities and rental rates, c) attempting to
maximize revenues through evaluating the appropriate  balance between occupancy,
rental rates, and promotional  discounting and d) controlling expense levels. We
believe that our property  management  personnel and systems,  combined with the
national  telephone  reservation  system  and media  advertising  programs  will
continue to enhance our ability to meet these goals.

     ACQUIRE  PROPERTIES OWNED OR OPERATED BY OTHERS IN THE U.S.: We believe our
presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major markets in the U.S.
enhances  our  ability to  identify  attractive  acquisition  opportunities  and
capitalize on the overall  fragmentation in the self-storage  industry.  Data on
the rental  rates and  occupancy  levels of our existing  facilities,  which are
often located in proximity to potential  acquisition  candidates,  provide us an
advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.

     EXPAND AND REPACKAGE EXISTING REAL ESTATE FACILITIES: We have a substantial
number of facilities in the U.S. that were developed and  constructed 20 or more
years ago based upon local  competitive and  demographic  conditions in place at
that time. Population densities and other such conditions may have changed since
then,  providing  opportunities  to expand and further  invest into our existing
self-storage locations, either by improving the quality of the existing units by
adding amenities such as climate control,  or by expanding these facilities at a
per square foot cost that is typically less than the cost incurred in developing
a new  location.  At December 31, 2007,  we have  identified 27 such projects to
expand or repackage our existing  facilities in the U.S.,  for an aggregate cost
of  approximately  $106.9 million,  which will add an aggregate of approximately
1,105,000 net rentable  square feet.  Completion of these projects is subject to
contingencies, including obtaining governmental agency approvals. We continue to
evaluate our existing real estate portfolio to identify additional expansion and
repackaging opportunities.

     In recent years, our rate of development of new self-storage  facilities in
the U.S.  has  declined due to  increases  in  construction  cost,  increases in
competition  with  retail,  condominium,  and  apartment  operators  for quality
self-storage sites in urban locations,  and more difficult zoning and permitting
requirements.  We  will  continue  to  seek  favorable  sites  and  markets  for
development,  based upon current market conditions.  In the short-term we do not
expect any significant investment in new development locations in the U.S.

         PARTICIPATE IN THE GROWTH OF COMMERCIAL FACILITIES PRIMARILY THROUGH
OUR OWNERSHIP IN PS BUSINESS PARKS, INC.: At December 31, 2007, we had a 45%
common equity interest in PSB and its operating partnership which, consisted of
5,418,273 shares of common stock and 7,305,355 limited partnership units in the
Operating Partnership. The limited partnership units are convertible at our
option, subject to certain conditions, on a one-for-one basis into PSB common
stock. At December 31, 2007, PSB owned and operated approximately 19.6 million
net rentable square feet of commercial space located in the U.S. located in
eight states.

     CAPITALIZE ON THE POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH IN EUROPE:  Our European  operations
are conducted  through Shurgard  Self-Storage SCA, a Belgian company referred to
hereinafter as "Shurgard Europe".

     The self-storage market in Europe is relatively new, making it difficult to
obtain reliable statistics regarding competition throughout Europe. We track and
maintain information regarding customers and competitors in the markets in which
we operate, and in markets where we are considering expansion.

     According to the most recent data  provided by the  Federation  of European
Self-Storage  Associations  ("FEDESSA"),   the  self-storage  market  in  Europe
(defined as Belgium, Czech Republic,  Denmark,  Finland, France, Germany, Italy,
The  Netherlands,  Norway,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland and the United Kingdom)
consisted of approximately  1,090 stores as of March 2007,  approximately 600 of
which are located in the United Kingdom.  We believe,  however,  that because of
the number of new entrants  into the market,  FEDESSA may  understate  the total
number of stores in many markets even as of the date reported.  Less  fragmented
than the U.S. market, the European self-storage market is dominated by a handful
of larger players and a few midsized operators, with the remainder of the market
consisting of smaller operators.  The top five operators of stores in Europe, of
which we believe we are the largest,  collectively have approximately 45% of the
aggregate  market share for  self-storage  space,  based on net rentable  square
footage, as of March 2007. Because of the number of new entrants into the market
and difficulties in collecting data, the information presented by FEDESSA at any

                                       34

<PAGE>

time may  understate  the total number of stores in many  markets.  However,  we
believe the  information  presented by FEDESSA is the best available  measure of
market size and competition.

     Although  many  European  consumers  are not yet aware of the  self-storage
concept,  they tend to live in more densely  populated  areas in smaller  living
spaces (as compared to the U.S.) that, we believe,  should make  self-storage an
attractive  option as product  knowledge and availability  grows. Most Europeans
are familiar with the concept of storage only as an ancillary  service  provided
by moving companies.  The service provided by moving companies is typically full
service, prevents direct access by customers and may involve security issues for
the users  because  they have less  control  over  their  goods in  storage.  In
addition,  most of these moving  companies  require  advance  notice to retrieve
goods and charge  handling  fees and minimum  monthly  fees,  making the cost of
smaller storage requirements costly.

     As a result of this low  density  of  self-storage  in Europe  relative  to
population as compared to the U.S., we believe that there is significant  growth
potential  in Europe,  even if the  density of  self-storage  in Europe does not
ultimately approach the levels in the U.S. Capitalizing on this opportunity will
require a significant  amount of capital to develop new self-storage  facilities
in what  could be a process  extending  through  a few  decades  in time  frame,
similar to the trajectory of the U.S.  self-storage industry since its inception
in the mid 1960's.

     Notwithstanding  the potential of this  opportunity,  we believe that it is
not appropriate to invest significant amounts of our existing U.S. based capital
into Europe,  because of a) the lack of tax  efficiency  of operating in various
tax jurisdictions,  many of which subject these operations to income tax as well
as certain  taxes upon  repatriation  of funds to the U.S.,  b)  constraints  on
ownership or operations required in order to satisfy the statutory  requirements
of being a U.S.  REIT, as well as c) the differing  risk/return  profile of such
investments in European self-storage  operations relative to the expectations of
our existing  investor base.  Accordingly,  we believe that separate  sources of
capital obtained through a separate public European-based entity, best positions
our European  operations for long-term  growth. We attempted a share offering in
Europe in mid-2007 in order to  establish  such a public  entity;  however,  the
offering  was  abandoned  because  market  conditions  were and  continue  to be
unfavorable.

     In January 2008, we announced that we reached an agreement in principle for
a prospective investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in Shurgard Europe in
a  private  transaction  at a price  generally  consistent  with the  previously
disclosed proceeds we expected to receive for our equity interest in last year's
terminated  European share offering.  No binding  agreement has been signed with
the prospective investor and there is no assurance that a binding agreement will
be signed or that a transaction will be completed. We estimate the completion of
the  transaction  at the end of the first  quarter  of 2008  assuming  a binding
agreement is signed and the conditions related to the transaction are satisfied.

     While we intend to reduce our  exposure  to Europe  for the  aforementioned
reasons,  we intend to  continue  to hold a  significant  minority  position  in
Shurgard Europe in order to participate in this entity's growth.

     CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations  discuss  our  consolidated  financial  statements,  which  have been
prepared  in  accordance  with U.S.  generally  accepted  accounting  principles
("GAAP"). The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in
conformity with GAAP and our discussion and analysis of our financial  condition
and results of operations requires management to make judgments, assumptions and
estimates  that  affect  the  amounts  reported  in our  consolidated  financial
statements  and  accompanying  notes.  Note  2  to  our  consolidated  financial
statements  summarizes the significant  accounting  policies and methods used in
the   preparation  of  our   consolidated   financial   statements  and  related
disclosures.

     Management  believes the following are critical  accounting  policies whose
application has a material impact on the Company's financial presentation.  That
is, they are both  important to the  portrayal of our  financial  condition  and
results,  and they require  management to make  judgments  and  estimates  about
matters that are inherently uncertain.

                                       35

<PAGE>


     QUALIFICATION AS A REIT - INCOME TAX EXPENSE:  We believe that we have been
organized  and operated,  and we intend to continue to operate,  as a qualifying
REIT under the Code and  applicable  state laws.  We also believe that  Shurgard
qualified as a REIT. A REIT generally does not pay corporate  level income taxes
on its  REIT  taxable  income  that  is  distributed  to its  shareholders,  and
accordingly,  we do not pay income tax on the share of our REIT  taxable  income
that is distributed to our shareholders.

     We therefore  do not estimate or accrue any federal  income tax expense for
income earned and distributed related to REIT operations. This estimate could be
incorrect,  because  due  to  the  complex  nature  of  the  REIT  qualification
requirements,   the  ongoing  importance  of  factual   determinations  and  the
possibility of future changes in our circumstances, we cannot be assured that we
actually have satisfied or will satisfy the  requirements for taxation as a REIT
for any  particular  taxable  year.  For any  taxable  year that we fail or have
failed to qualify as a REIT and for which applicable  relief  provisions did not
apply,  we would be taxed at the regular  corporate  rates on all of our taxable
income,  whether or not we made or make any  distributions to our  shareholders.
Any resulting  requirement to pay corporate income tax, including any applicable
penalties or interest,  could have a material  adverse  impact on our  financial
condition or results of  operations.  Unless  entitled to relief under  specific
statutory provisions,  we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for
the four taxable  years  following  the year for which  qualification  was lost.
There can be no assurance that we would be entitled to any statutory  relief. In
addition,  if  Shurgard  failed to qualify as a REIT,  we  generally  would have
succeeded to or incurred significant tax liabilities.

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS: Substantially all of our assets consist of
long-lived  assets,  including  real  estate and other  intangible  assets.  The
evaluation of our long-lived assets for impairment includes  determining whether
indicators  of  impairment  exist,  which  is a  subjective  process.  When  any
indicators of impairment  are found,  the evaluation of such  long-lived  assets
then entails  projections of future  operating  cash flows,  which also involves
significant  judgment.  Future events, or facts and circumstances that currently
exist, that we have not yet identified, could cause us to conclude in the future
that our long-lived  assets are impaired.  Any resulting  impairment  loss could
have a  material  adverse  impact on our  financial  condition  and  results  of
operations.

     ESTIMATED  USEFUL  LIVES OF  LONG-LIVED  ASSETS:  Substantially  all of our
assets consist of depreciable, long-lived assets. We record depreciation expense
with respect to these assets based upon their estimated useful lives. Any change
in the estimated useful lives of those assets,  caused by functional or economic
obsolescence  or other  factors,  could  have a material  adverse  impact on our
financial condition or results of operations.

     ESTIMATED  LEVEL OF RETAINED RISK AND UNPAID TENANT CLAIM  LIABILITIES:  As
described in Notes 2 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements,  we retain
certain risks with respect to property perils,  legal liability,  and other such
risks. In addition, a wholly-owned  subsidiary of the Company reinsures policies
against  claims  for  losses to goods  stored  by  tenants  in our  self-storage
facilities.  In  connection  with these risks,  we accrue  losses based upon the
estimated level of losses incurred using certain actuarial  assumptions followed
in the  insurance  industry  and based on  recommendations  from an  independent
actuary that is a member of the American Academy of Actuaries.  While we believe
that the amounts of the accrued losses are adequate,  the ultimate liability may
be in excess of or less than the amounts recorded.  At December 31, 2007, we had
approximately  490,000 reinsured policies in the U.S.  outstanding  representing
aggregate coverage of approximately $1.2 billion.

     ACCRUALS FOR CONTINGENCIES:  We are exposed to business and legal liability
risks with respect to events that have occurred, but in accordance with GAAP, we
have not accrued for such potential  liabilities  because the loss is either not
probable  or not  estimable  or because  we are not aware of the  event.  Future
events and the  result of  pending  litigation  could  result in such  potential
losses  becoming  probable and  estimable,  which could have a material  adverse
impact on our  financial  condition  or  results  of  operations.  Some of these
potential  losses,  of  which  we are  aware,  are  described  in Note 16 to our
consolidated financial statements.

     ACCRUALS  FOR  OPERATING  EXPENSES:  We accrue for property tax expense and
certain other operating  expenses based upon estimates and historical trends and
current and anticipated  local and state government  rules and  regulations.  If
these estimates and assumptions are incorrect,  our expenses could be misstated.
Cost of operations,  interest expense,  general and administrative  expense,  as
well as television, yellow page, and other advertising expenditures are expensed
as incurred.

                                       36

<PAGE>


     VALUATION  OF  DERIVATIVES:  As  described  in our  Significant  Accounting
Policies in Note 2 to our  consolidated  financial  statements,  our  derivative
instruments are not considered  effective  hedges.  Accordingly,  any changes in
value of these  derivatives  are  reflected  as an  increase  or decrease in net
income.  The determination of the value of derivatives is based upon significant
judgment and assumptions  including interest rates, currency rates, and expected
rates of return.  The actual value of derivative  instruments  is dependent upon
many factors that our judgments  and  assumptions  may not consider,  or may not
consider effectively.

     EUROPEAN NET OPERATING LOSSES - INCOME TAX TREATMENT: The Shurgard European
real estate operations generated  significant operating losses from inception to
the date of the Shurgard  Merger.  We recorded a deferred tax asset arising from
the net operating loss carry-forward as of the date of acquisition, and recorded
a valuation  allowance  against any net  deferred  tax asset based on the filing
groups in the various  countries.  To the extent that we determine the valuation
allowance is no longer  required for the deferred tax asset  associated with the
filing group,  the change in the valuation  allowance will first be treated as a
reduction of goodwill and other intangible assets related to the Shurgard Merger
before being treated as a reduction to the provision for income taxes.

     VALUATION OF ASSETS AND  LIABILITIES  ACQUIRED IN THE SHURGARD  MERGER:  We
have estimated the fair value of real estate,  intangible assets,  debt, and the
other assets and other liabilities acquired in the Shurgard Merger. In addition,
we have  estimated  the fair  market  value of the 38.9  million  shares that we
issued  to the  Shurgard  shareholders.  These  estimates  are  based  upon many
assumptions,  including  interest rates,  market values of land and buildings in
the U.S.  and Europe,  estimated  future cash flows from the then tenant base in
place, and the recoverability of certain assets. We believe that the assumptions
used were reasonable,  however,  these assumptions were subject to a significant
degree of judgment, and others could come to materially different conclusions as
to the estimated values, if different  assumptions were used. If the values were
determined  using different  assumptions  than those used, our  depreciation and
amortization expense, interest expense, real estate, debt, and intangible assets
could have been materially different.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     OPERATING  RESULTS FOR 2007 AS  COMPARED  TO 2006:  Net income for the year
ended  December 31, 2007 was $457.5  million  compared to $314.0 million for the
same period in 2006,  representing an increase of $143.5 million.  This increase
is primarily due to improved operations from our real estate facilities combined
with an increased  foreign currency exchange gain and a reduction in general and
administrative  expense.  These  items were  partially  offset by  increases  in
depreciation and amortization expense and interest expense.

     Comparisons  of  our  revenues,   expenses,  and  weighted  average  shares
outstanding are significantly  impacted by the Shurgard Merger,  which closed on
August 22, 2006. The results with respect to the assets and liabilities acquired
in the  Shurgard  Merger are included in our  operating  results from August 23,
2006  through  December 31, 2006 during the year ended  December  31,  2006,  as
compared to the entire year ended December 31, 2007.

     Net operating income, before depreciation,  for our self-storage operations
totaled  $1,082.2  million for the year ended  December  31, 2007 as compared to
$810.8 million for the same period in 2006,  representing  an increase of $271.4
million. The increase is primarily due to the addition of 647 facilities that we
acquired in the Shurgard  Merger.  Net operating  income of the former  Shurgard
properties  was  approximately  $347.8  million for the year ended  December 31,
2007, as compared to $110.1 million for the same period in 2006,  which reflects
the  operations of these  facilities  from August 23, 2006 through  December 31,
2006.

     During the year ended  December 31, 2007, we recognized a foreign  currency
exchange gain aggregating  $57.6 million relating to intercompany  loans between
our U.S. and  European  subsidiaries.  The gain was the result of the  continued
weakening of the US Dollar  relative to the Euro during the year ended  December
31, 2007. See "FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAIN" below for further information.

     General and administrative expense declined $24.9 million in the year ended
December  31,  2007 as compared  to the same  period in 2006.  This  decline was
primarily  due to the  reduction in  integration  expenses  associated  with the

                                       37

<PAGE>

Shurgard Merger,  contract  termination  costs, and development  costs that were
expensed with respect to terminated projects; offset partially by costs incurred
in 2007 with respect to our  reorganization  as a Maryland  REIT,  and the costs
associated with a proposed  offering of shares in our European  business.  These
expenses  aggregated  $56.4  million  for the year ended  December  31,  2006 as
compared to $19.0 million for the same period in 2007.

     Depreciation and amortization  expense for the year ended December 31, 2007
increased  by $184.8  million,  as  compared  to the same  period in 2006.  This
increase is primarily due to increased  depreciation  and  amortization  expense
with respect to the buildings  and  intangible  assets  acquired in the Shurgard
Merger.

     Net income  allocable  to our common  shareholders  (after  allocating  net
income to our preferred and equity shareholders) was $199.4 million or $1.17 per
common share on a diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to
$46.9  million or $0.33 per common share on a diluted  basis for the same period
in 2006, representing an increase of $152.5 million or $0.84 per common share on
a diluted basis. The increase in net income allocable to common shareholders and
earnings per common share on a diluted  basis are due primarily to the impact of
the factors described above with respect to net income, as well as a decrease in
income allocated to preferred shareholders, as described below.

     For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we allocated $236.8 million
and  $214.2  million  of  our  net  income,   respectively,   to  our  preferred
shareholders based on distributions paid. The year-over-year  increase is due to
the  issuance  of  additional  preferred  securities,  partially  offset  by the
redemption of preferred securities that had higher dividend rates than the newly
preferred  securities issued. In 2006, we also recorded allocations of income to
our preferred  shareholders  with respect to the  application of EITF Topic D-42
totaling  $31.5  million  (or $0.22  per  common  share on a  diluted  basis) in
connection with the redemption of preferred securities.

     Weighted average diluted shares increased to 170,147,000 for the year ended
December 31, 2007 from  143,715,000  for the year ended  December 31, 2006.  The
increase in weighted  average  diluted  shares is due primarily to the impact of
the issuance of 38.9 million shares in connection with the Shurgard Merger.

     OPERATING  RESULTS FOR 2006 AS  COMPARED  TO 2005:  Net income for the year
ended  December 31, 2006 was $314.0  million  compared to $456.4 million for the
same period in 2005,  representing  a decrease of $142.4  million,  or 31%. This
decrease is primarily  due to the  temporary  impact of certain items related to
the  Shurgard  Merger.  During the year ended  December  31,  2006,  we incurred
amortization  expense totaling $175.9 million due to the amortization of certain
intangible  assets  acquired in the merger and  approximately  $44.0  million in
merger integration expenses.

     Comparisons  of  our  revenues,   expenses,  and  weighted  average  shares
outstanding are significantly  impacted by the Shurgard Merger,  which closed on
August 22, 2006. The results with respect to the assets and liabilities acquired
in the  Shurgard  Merger are included in our  operating  results from August 23,
2006 through December 31, 2006 during the year ended December 31, 2006, and none
for the year ended December 31, 2005.

     These  items  were  partially  offset  by  improved   operations  from  our
self-storage facilities, reduced minority interest in income and higher interest
income.

     Net operating income for our self-storage  operations,  before depreciation
expense,  increased  from  $630.8  million  in 2005 to $810.8  million  in 2006,
representing an increase of $180.0 million. This increase was largely due to the
acquisition  of  additional  facilities  in the  Shurgard  Merger.  We earned an
aggregate  of  $110.1  million  in net  operating  income  with  respect  to the
facilities  acquired from  Shurgard,  reflecting  the  operating  results of the
facilities  acquired  from the  date of the  merger  August  22,  2006,  through
December 31, 2006.

     Net income  allocable  to our common  shareholders  (after  allocating  net
income to our preferred and equity  shareholders) was $46.9 million or $0.33 per
common share on a diluted basis for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to
$254.4  million or $1.97 per common share on a diluted basis for the same period
in 2005,  representing  a decrease of $207.5  million or $1.64 per common share.
The decreases in net income  allocable to common  shareholders  and earnings per

                                       38

<PAGE>

common  diluted share are due  primarily to the impact of the factors  described
above with respect to net income,  in addition to increased  income allocated to
preferred shareholders, described below.

     For the year ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we allocated  $214.2 million
and  $173.0  million  of  our  net  income,   respectively,   to  our  preferred
shareholders based on distributions paid. The year-over-year  increase is due to
the  issuance  of  additional  preferred  securities,  partially  offset  by the
redemption of preferred securities that had higher dividend rates than the newly
issued  preferred  securities.  In connection  with the  redemption of preferred
securities, we also recorded allocations of income to our preferred shareholders
with respect to the  application  of EITF Topic D-42 totaling  $31.5 million (or
$0.22 per diluted  common  share) and $7.5 million (or $0.06 per diluted  common
share) for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

     Weighted  average  diluted shares  increased to 143,715,000  for year ended
December 31, 2006 from  128,819,000  for the year ended  December 31, 2005.  The
increase in weighted  average diluted shares is due primarily to the issuance of
approximately 38.9 million shares in the Shurgard Merger,  which are included in
our weighted average shares from August 22, 2006 through December 31, 2006.

REAL ESTATE OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     DOMESTIC SELF-STORAGE OPERATIONS:  Our domestic self-storage operations are
by  far  the  largest  component  of  our  operating  activities,   representing
approximately  81% of our total  revenues  generated for the year ended December
31, 2007.  Rental  income with respect to our domestic  self-storage  operations
grew by 24.4% in 2007 as  compared  to 2006 and by 24.1% in 2006 as  compared to
2005.  The  year-over-year  growth in  rental  income  is  primarily  due to the
acquisition  of additional  facilities in  connection  with the Shurgard  Merger
combined with the addition of new  facilities to our  portfolio,  either through
our acquisition or development activities.

     To enhance year-over-year comparisons,  the following table summarizes, and
the ensuing  discussion  describes  the  operating  results of three groups that
management  analyzes  with  respect  to the  Company's  performance.  The Public
Storage Same Store group,  representing our most mature  facilities that we have
owned prior to January 1, 2004,  the Shurgard Same Store group,  representing  a
mature  group  of  facilities  that we  have  owned  since  August  22,  2006 in
connection  with the  Shurgard  Merger;  and Other  facilities  which  primarily
include Shurgard facilities we acquired other than the Same Store Facilities, as
well as the facilities developed or acquired over the past three years.

                                       39

<PAGE>



[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_54_LINES]


</TABLE>

(a)    Total net operating income before  depreciation and amortization or "NOI"
       is  a  non-GAAP  (generally  accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
       measure  that  excludes  the  impact  of  depreciation  and  amortization
       expense.  See Note 14 to our  December  31, 2007  consolidated  financial
       statements, "Segment Information," which includes a reconciliation of net
       operating income before depreciation and amortization for this segment to
       our consolidated net income.  Although  depreciation and amortization are
       operating  expenses,  we  believe  that NOI is a  meaningful  measure  of
       operating  performance,  because we utilize NOI in making  decisions with
       respect to capital  allocations,  in determining current property values,
       segment performance,  and comparing period-to-period and market-to-market
       property  operating  results.  NOI is not a substitute  for net operating
       income after  depreciation  and  amortization in evaluating our operating
       results.


     In the  discussion  that  follows,  we  present  realized  annual  rent per
occupied square foot,  which is computed by dividing rental income,  before late
charges and administrative fees, by the weighted average occupied square footage
for the period.  We also present  annualized  rental income per available square
foot ("REVPAF"),  which represents annualized rental income, before late charges
and  administrative  fees,  divided by total available net rentable square feet.
Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded to more effectively  measure
our ongoing level of revenue associated with the leasing of the units.


     In the above  table,  the  significant  increases  in revenues  and cost of
operations,  in 2007  and 2006 as  compared  to 2005  are  primarily  due to the

                                       40

<PAGE>

acquisition of  self-storage  facilities in connection  with the Shurgard Merger
which was completed on August 22, 2006 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements).  As a result of the Shurgard Merger,  we acquired  interests in 487
self-storage  facilities  (32.3 million net rentable square feet) located in the
U.S.

     Immediately preceding the close of the Shurgard Merger, all of the acquired
facilities in the U.S. were  integrated  into our property  management  systems,
centralized  pricing  systems,  national  call center,  and  website.  Temporary
signage,  re-branding the facilities from  "Shurgard" to "Public  Storage",  was
also put into place immediately after the close of the Shurgard Merger.

     Our property  management  personnel worked  diligently to absorb this large
acquisition  of facilities.  Training and hiring new property  managers were key
elements for the  successful  integration  process.  New employees  needed to be
trained on how to use our property  management  systems and follow our operating
policies and  procedures.  As expected in a merger of this  nature,  immediately
following  the close of the merger,  turnover at the property  manager level was
higher than we normally experience.  In anticipation of such turnover,  we began
to hire additional  "bench"  property  managers in the second quarter of 2006 to
fill openings when  turnover  occurred.  Although this strategy was effective at
keeping  properties opened for business,  it did result in incurring  additional
payroll  costs in the  second,  third  and  fourth  quarters  of 2006 due to the
additional head count.

     As a result of the Shurgard  Merger,  the amount of vacant space  increased
significantly in our system.  The acquired Shurgard  portfolio of 487 facilities
in the U.S. had aggregate  average  square foot occupancy of 84.4% at August 31,
2006, which was 530 basis points below the 89.7% for the existing Public Storage
portfolio.  Average  rental  rates were  approximately  the same for each of the
portfolios.  Our goal has been to increase  our overall  portfolio  occupancy in
order to be in a position to drive rental  rates.  The primary  focus in meeting
our goal has been to work to improve the Shurgard  portfolio's overall occupancy
level to the occupancy level experienced by our existing portfolio.

     In order to increase  move-in  volumes and  ultimately  increase  occupancy
levels as quickly as  possible,  we were much more  aggressive  at reducing  our
rental  rates,  increasing  promotional  discounts  and  expanding our marketing
programs  during the fourth  quarter of 2006 and continued  throughout  2007. We
have substantially increased our media advertising expenditures to $25.3 million
in 2007, as compared to $17.7 million in 2006 and $13.7 million in 2005.

     We have made  significant  progress in improving the occupancy level of the
Shurgard portfolio.  However,  this improvement has come somewhat at the expense
of a reduction in the Public  Storage  Same Store  Facilities'  occupancies  and
reduced growth in rental rates. We believe that the more aggressive  pricing and
discounting at the Shurgard properties, combined with the fact that the Shurgard
properties had  relatively  more vacant spaces to rent, has resulted in shifting
of new tenant  flow not only from our  competitors,  but also from our  existing
portfolio to the Shurgard properties during the past year, putting some pressure
on the  occupancies  and rental  rate growth for the Public  Storage  Same Store
Facilities.

     Short-term  occupancy  increases,  like  those we have  experienced  in the
Shurgard portfolio,  tend to result in a higher proportion of short-term tenants
and a resulting  increase in  move-out  ratios,  which  subsides  over time.  We
believe this is related to the nature of the  occupancy  stabilization  process,
which we have  observed  to have two  principal  stages -- first,  the  physical
fill-up of the  facilities,  then the  achievement  of a stable tenant base with
historical  levels of move-outs,  as  successive  groups of tenants move in, the
tenants in such groups with short-term  needs (such as moving) move out, and the
tenants with long-term storage needs remain.

     In addition to our strategy to increase Shurgard occupancies, our operating
results have been,  and will  continue to be,  impacted by the general  economic
trends that affect the self-storage business.  While it is difficult to quantify
the impact of these economic trends, and even more difficult to predict what the
impact will be in the future, we do believe that several such factors, including
the slowdown in the national  housing  market,  pressure on consumer  disposable
income, as well as reduced  year-over-year  demand in markets which had enhanced
self-storage demand in 2005 and 2006 due to the hurricanes (such as in Florida),
have  negatively  impacted  self-storage  demand  and  may  continue  to  do  so
throughout 2008.

     Assuming a  continuance  of recent demand trends that we have observed over
the past six months, we expect to continue with aggressive pricing,  promotional
discounts  and  marketing  in 2008 to maintain or improve our overall  occupancy
levels.   While  we  increased  the  number  of  markets  receiving   television
advertising  from 25 markets in the fourth  quarter of 2006 to 27 markets in the

                                       41

<PAGE>

fourth quarter of 2007, aggregate television spending declined from $7.6 million
in the quarter  ended  December  31, 2006 to $3.3  million in the quarter  ended
December 31, 2007. Future media advertising expenditures are not determinable at
this time, and will be driven in part by demand for our self-storage spaces, our
current occupancy levels, as well as our evaluation of the most effective mix of
yellow page, media, and Internet advertising.

     We  believe  that  the  acquisition  of  the  Shurgard  portfolio  provided
operational efficiencies,  specifically in the areas of marketing, national call
center,  and  indirect  overhead  costs  that  support  the  operations  of  the
facilities.  We  believe  that  these  efficiencies  are  largely  realized  and
reflected in our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007.

     DOMESTIC - PUBLIC STORAGE SAME STORE FACILITIES

     The facilities included in the Public Storage Same Store Facilities are all
stabilized  and have been  owned  since  January 1, 2005 and  therefore  provide
meaningful  comparative  data for 2005,  2006 and 2007.  The Public Storage Same
Store Facilities  contain  approximately  77.8 million net rentable square feet,
representing  approximately 62% of the aggregate net rentable square feet of our
consolidated  domestic self-storage  portfolio.  Revenues and operating expenses
with respect to this group of properties are set forth in the above Self-Storage
Operations  table under the caption,  "Same Store  Facilities - Public Storage."
The following table sets forth  additional  operating data with respect to these
facilities:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_46_LINES]

</TABLE>


(a)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

                                       42

<PAGE>

(b)  Realized  annual  rent per  occupied  square  foot is  computed by dividing
     rental  income,  prior to late  charges  and  administrative  fees,  by the
     weighted  average  occupied square footage for the period.  Realized annual
     rent  per  occupied  square  foot  takes  into  consideration   promotional
     discounts,  credit card fees and other costs that reduce rental income from
     the  contractual  amounts due.

(c)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized rental income,  prior to late charges and  administrative  fees,
     divided by total available net rentable square feet.

(d)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional discounts, and excludes late charges and administrative fees.

(e)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization  expense or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense,
     for  our  Same  Store   facilities   represents  a  portion  of  our  total
     self-storage   segment's  net  operating  income  before  depreciation  and
     amortization  expense,  and is reconciled to the segment total in the table
     "domestic  self-storage  operations summary" above. A reconciliation of our
     total self-storage  segment's net operating income before  depreciation and
     amortization  expense to consolidated  net income is included in Note 14 to
     our  December  31,  2007  consolidated   financial   statements,   "Segment
     Information."   Although   depreciation   and  amortization  are  operating
     expenses,  we  believe  that  NOI  is a  meaningful  measure  of  operating
     performance,  because we utilize NOI in making  decisions  with  respect to
     capital  allocations,  in  determining  current  property  values,  segment
     performance,  and comparing  period-to-period and market-to-market property
     operating  results.  NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after
     depreciation and amortization expense in evaluating our operating results.

     Rental income increased approximately 2.1% in 2007 as compared to 2006, and
5.3% in 2006 as compared to 2005. These increases were primarily attributable to
higher average realized annual rental rates per occupied square foot, which were
2.9% higher in 2007 as compared to 2006,  and 5.5% higher in 2006 as compared to
2005. Higher average realized annual rental rates were offset partially by lower
occupancy levels.

     In the first three  quarters  of 2006,  year-over-year  revenue  growth was
brisk relative to historically  experienced  growth levels,  at 5.9%.  Following
this period,  growth began to slow, with  year-over-year  revenue growth of 3.5%
for the quarter ended  December 31, 2006.  In the first three  quarters of 2007,
revenue  growth  continued to slow to 2.9% in the quarter  ended March 31, 2007,
and 1.7% in each of the  quarters  ended June 30, 2006 and  September  30, 2007.
Revenue growth improved somewhat in the fourth quarter of 2007 to 2.1%.

     It is difficult  for us to pinpoint the exact reasons for this slow down in
revenue  growth and the  degree to which each  factor  negatively  affected  the
growth in rental income.  We believe,  however,  that the reduction was due to a
number of factors including;  (i) the increased number of vacant spaces added to
our overall  system as a result of the  Shurgard  Merger and our  aforementioned
focus on improving the  occupancies  of the Shurgard  portfolio,  (ii) hurricane
activity that created unusual demand for storage space in our Florida markets in
2005 and  2004,  making  year-over-year  trends in 2007  less  favorable,  (iii)
general  economic  conditions,  specifically  the slow down in housing sales and
moving  activity,  and (iv)  increased  competition.  Many of these  factors are
beyond our control.

     As indicated  above,  it has been our  objective to close the occupancy gap
between the acquired  Shurgard  properties  versus the Public  Storage  existing
portfolio  and achieve a stabilized  tenant base.  We believe that this strategy
has put  pressure on  occupancies  and rental rate growth on our  existing  Same
Store facilities since the merger, as demand appears to have shifted somewhat to
the acquired Shurgard  facilities as we have adjusted the level of discounts and
monthly  rents at the  acquired  Shurgard  facilities  to  accelerate  occupancy
growth.  Because it was important for us to maintain our occupancy levels in the
Public Storage Same Store  portfolio,  we adjusted rental rates and the level of
promotional  discounts  offered  to new  tenants  as a means to  expand  move-in
volumes  throughout the entire  portfolio.  It has been  challenging to maintain
occupancy levels at the Public Storage Same Store group of facilities,  while at
the same time trying to continue to improve the occupancy levels of the acquired
Shurgard facilities and achieve a stabilized tenant base.

     However, since we believe that we have now closed the occupancy gap between
the acquired Shurgard  properties  versus the Public Storage existing  portfolio
and have  achieved a  stabilized  tenant  base,  we expect that the  pressure on
Public  Storage Same Store  portfolio  should  subside.  Despite  this  positive
development,  the other aforementioned factors noted above may still continue to
have a negative impact on our revenue  growth,  and as a result it is unclear as
to when we may achieve  higher  levels of revenue  growth in the Public  Storage
Same Store pool than we achieved in 2007.

                                       43

<PAGE>

     Cost of operations (excluding  depreciation and amortization)  increased by
0.6% in 2007 as compared to 2006,  and 4.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005.  Growth
increased in 2006 due to higher payroll,  property tax,  utilities,  and repairs
and  maintenance  expenses.  Growth  increased  minimally  in 2007,  because the
factors  increasing  payroll expense in 2006 were somewhat reversed in 2007, and
our property tax, utility, and repairs and maintenance expense growth slowed. To
a lesser extent, 2007's expenses also benefited from scale efficiencies from the
Shurgard Merger.

     In 2006, we  experienced a 7.1% increase in payroll  expense as compared to
2005.  This growth was driven by higher wage rates due to a tighter labor market
in several market areas,  higher overtime hours due to understaffing  issues, as
well as the effects of the Shurgard  Merger,  with headcount levels increased in
order to manage an  increased  level of turnover  stemming  from the merger.  In
2007,  property payroll expense declined 1.1% as many of the inefficiencies such
as overtime and increased  staffing  levels that we  experienced  in 2006,  were
eliminated.  This was offset  partially by higher benefits costs, as we improved
the health  benefits  offered to our property level employees  significantly  in
2007. For the last few years,  we have also  benefited  from decreased  workers'
compensation  costs.  For 2008, we expect to incur payroll growth that is higher
than  inflation,  as we do not  expect any  further  declines  in payroll  hours
incurred by our  property  managers  and workers'  compensation  expense  should
increase  as the  declines in expense we  experienced  in the last few years are
expected to subside.

     Property  tax expense  growth  slowed in 2007 as several  states  (Florida,
Texas,  and Arizona) passed laws reducing the property tax rates in 2007.  While
there are states (Indiana,  Pennsylvania,  Georgia and Arizona)  considering new
legislation  in 2008,  nothing has been passed and it is too early to  determine
any impact on 2008  property  tax  expense.  Therefore,  we expect  property tax
expense growth of approximately 4% in 2008.

     Repairs and maintenance  expense  declined 1.6% in 2007 as compared to 2006
but had  increased  5.6% in 2006 as  compared to 2005.  Repairs and  maintenance
expense include snow removal costs, which totaled  $2,297,000,  $1,461,000,  and
$2,209,000, in 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively. Excluding snow removal costs,
repairs and maintenance decreased 4.4% in 2007 as compared to 2006 and increased
9.4% in 2006 as  compared  to 2005.  We expect  moderated  growth in repairs and
maintenance in 2008.

     Advertising and promotion is comprised principally of media (television and
radio), yellow page, and Internet  advertising.  The Public Storage Same Stores'
pro rata share of  advertising  and promotion  costs  increased  0.9% in 2007 as
compared  to 2006 and 4.5% in 2006 as  compared  to  2005.  Despite  significant
increases in our aggregate level of media advertising of 42.9% in 2007 and 29.2%
in  2006,  the  Public  Storage   Same-Store   properties   benefited  from  the
efficiencies of the 487 Shurgard properties added to our portfolio in August 22,
2006, as our aggregate costs were allocated over a larger pool of properties.

     Utility  expenses  increased  8.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and 3.4% in
2007 as compared to 2006, due  principally to  fluctuations  in electricity  and
natural gas costs. Future levels of utility expenses will be dependent primarily
upon current  energy  prices and, to a lesser  extent,  due to changes in demand
driven  by  weather  and  temperature,  both  of  which  are  volatile  and  not
predictable.

     Insurance  expense increased 8.7% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and declined
6.0% in 2007 as compared to 2006.  The  increase in 2006 was due to increases in
rates  occasioned by the  hurricanes  that occurred in 2005. The decline in 2007
was  likewise  market-driven,  as softer  insurance  markets in early 2007 as we
renewed  our  premiums  effective  April 1, 2007,  enabled  us to receive  lower
insurance rates.

     Telephone  reservation  center costs  decreased 0.6% in 2006 as compared to
2005,  and  increased  2.8% in 2007 as compared to 2006. We continue to evaluate
our telephone  reservation center as we evaluate the appropriate staffing levels
and location of personnel relative to our expanded  portfolio,  and as a result,
expect  telephone  reservation  center costs to remain somewhat  volatile during
early 2008 until we determine our appropriate ongoing level of expenses.

                                       44

<PAGE>

     The following  table  summarizes  selected  quarterly  financial  data with
respect to the Same Store Facilities:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_47_LINES]


</TABLE>

                                       45


<PAGE>


ANALYSIS OF REGIONAL TRENDS
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_9_LINES]

                                                 (Amounts in thousands, except for weighted average data)

Same Store Facilities Operating Trends
by Region
Rental income:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_61_LINES]

</TABLE>

                                       46

<PAGE>

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_32_LINES]

</TABLE>

     The Southern  California  Market  consists  principally  of the greater Los
Angeles area and San Diego, and has historically  been a source of strong growth
due to its  diverse  economy  and  continued  population  growth.  In  addition,
barriers  to entry  in the form of  difficult  permitting  requirements  tend to
reduce the potential for increased  competition in the infill locations where we
focus our operations.

     The Northern  California  market consists  principally of San Francisco and
related  peripheral areas.  While this area has a vibrant economy and relatively
strong population  growth,  it has been subject to general economic  conditions,
principally issues associated with the technology sector. In addition, there has
been increased competition in the areas that we do business,  principally in the
peripheral  areas near San Francisco,  due to new supply.  As a result,  revenue
growth in this area has been average relative to our other
markets.

     The Texas market principally includes Dallas, Houston and San Antonio. This
market has  historically  been subject to volatility  due to minimal  regulatory
restraint upon building, which results in cycles of overbuilding and absorption.
For the  last few  years,  we have  been in a period  of  increased  supply  and
competition  in the areas we operate,  and as a result  revenue  growth has been
average relative to other markets.

     The Florida market  principally  includes Miami,  Orlando,  Tampa, and West
Palm Beach.  Florida has been impacted by the comparative  impact of high demand
driven by the  hurricanes  of 2004 and 2005,  which  resulted  in brisk  revenue
growth  in  2006  of  7.6% as  compared  to  2005.  In  2007,  since  demand  is
comparatively lower,  Florida's revenue has declined 1.8% in 2007 as compared to
2006.  Over the longer term, we believe that this market benefits from continued
strong population growth and barriers to entry.

     DOMESTIC - SHURGARD SAME STORE FACILITIES
     -----------------------------------------

     In  connection  with the  Shurgard  Merger,  we acquired  487  self-storage
facilities in the U.S. located in 23 states. A total of 343 facilities have been
operating  at a mature  stabilized  occupancy  level  for  several  years  under
Shurgard  management  prior to the  merger  and then  under the  Public  Storage
management following the merger. These stabilized  facilities are referred to as
"Shurgard Same Store Facilities."

                                       47

<PAGE>

     As  reflected  in a  preceding  table  entitled  "Domestic  self -  storage
operations  summary" above, the historical  operating  results for this group of
facilities  increased  significantly  for 2007 as  compared  to 2006 and 2006 as
compared to 2005.  These  increases  were  primarily the result of having only a
partial  period's  operating  results in 2006, from August 23, 2006 (date of the
Shurgard Merger) through December 31, 2006, as compared to the entire year ended
December 31, 2007.

     To provide  additional  comparative  operating  data,  the table below sets
forth the  operations  of the  Shurgard  Same  Store  Facilities  for the entire
periods  presented  without  regard to the  timing of the  Shurgard  Merger.  We
believe that this  presentation  more effectively  portrays how these facilities
are  performing,  notwithstanding  that the data presented for the 2006 and 2005
periods do not represent  that actual  results  included in our  operations  for
those periods.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_42_LINES]

</TABLE>


(a)  We acquired the  Shurgard  Same Store  facilities  in  connection  with the
     Shurgard  Merger which was  completed  on August 22, 2006.  Included in our
     consolidated financial statements are only the historical operating results
     for these  facilities from the date of the Shurgard Merger through December
     31, 2007, the time that these  facilities were owned by us. For comparative
     purposes,  however,  the table  above  includes  the  historical  operating
     results for these facilities for each of the three years ended December 31,
     2007,  which  includes  operations  prior to the  Shurgard  Merger  and not
     included in our consolidated financial statements.

(b)  Revenues  and cost of  operations  do not include  ancillary  revenues  and
     expenses  generated at the facilities  with respect to tenant  reinsurance,
     and retail sales and truck rentals. "Other costs of management" included in
     cost of operations  principally  represents all the indirect costs incurred
     in the operations of the  facilities.  Indirect costs  principally  include
     supervisory  costs and  corporate  overhead  cost  incurred  to support the
     operating activities of the facilities. These amounts

                                       48

<PAGE>

     presented  herein  will  not  necessarily  compare  to  amounts  previously
     presented  by  Shurgard  in its  public  reporting  due to  differences  in
     classification  of revenues and  expenses,  including  tenant  reinsurance,
     retail sales and truck rental  activities  which are included on our income
     statement under  "ancillary  operations"  but were previously  presented by
     Shurgard as self-storage revenue and operating expenses.

(c)  Net  operating  income  (excluding  depreciation)  or "NOI"  is a  non-GAAP
     (generally accepted accounting  principles) financial measure that excludes
     the impact of depreciation  expense.  Although depreciation is an operating
     expense,  we  believe  that  NOI  is  a  meaningful  measure  of  operating
     performance,  because we utilize NOI in making  decisions  with  respect to
     capital  allocations,  in  determining  current  property  values,  segment
     performance,  and comparing  period-to-period and market-to-market property
     operating  results.  NOI is not a substitute for net operating income after
     depreciation  expense in  evaluating  our  operating  results.  We have not
     presented   depreciation   expense   for  these   facilities   because  the
     depreciation  expense is based upon historical cost, which is substantially
     different before the merger and after.

(d)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

(e)  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square foot is computed by  annualizing
     the result of  dividing  rental  income by the  weighted  average  occupied
     square  footage for the period.  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square
     foot takes into  consideration  promotional  discounts and other costs that
     reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due.

(f)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized  rental income  divided by total  available net rentable  square
     feet.

(g)  Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded from the computation of
     realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF because  exclusion
     of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue,
     by  excluding  the   volatility  of  late  charges,   which  are  dependent
     principally upon the level of tenant delinquency,  and administrative fees,
     which are dependent  principally  upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
     period.

(h)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional  discounts,  and excludes late charges and administrative fees.
     Reliable  data for in place  annual  rent per  occupied  square  foot as of
     December 31, 2005 is not available.

     On the date of the Shurgard Merger, we successfully installed our real-time
property  operation system at all U.S. Shurgard  locations.  As a result,  these
facilities were immediately  integrated into our national call center,  website,
and management structure and began to benefit from our operating platform.

     On August 30, 2006, the occupancy of the Shurgard Same-Store facilities was
approximately  84.1%,  as  compared to 91.3% for the Public  Storage  Same-Store
facilities.  It has been our  objective to close this  occupancy gap in order to
increase  REVPAF at the Shurgard  facilities.  In attempting to accomplish  this
objective,  we significantly  expanded our domestic  pricing,  promotional,  and
media programs beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006.

     Revenues for the Shurgard Same-Store  properties  increased 4.7% in 2007 as
compared to 2006 and 4.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005.  The  increase in 2007 is
primarily  driven by higher  occupancy  levels as  compared  to 2006,  while the
increase in 2006 as compared to 2005 is primarily driven by higher realized rent
per occupied square foot.

     We have improved the occupancy of the Shurgard Same-Store Facilities,  with
average  occupancy  at December  31, 2007 of 87.6% for the  Shurgard  Same-Store
facilities as compared to 88.1% for the Public  Storage  same-store  pool. As we
have  raised  the  occupancy  of the  Shurgard  Same-Store  facilities,  we have
recently  been able to be less  aggressive on pricing and as a result our trends
in realized rent per occupied  square foot trends have improved from a reduction
of 0.6% in the first nine months of 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006,
to a 1.7% increase in the fourth  quarter of 2007 as compared to the same period
in 2006.

     Property tax expense  increased 11.3% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and 3.6%
in 2007 as compared to 2006,  due to higher  assessments  following the Shurgard
Merger, particularly with respect to properties in California.

     Payroll expense decreased from $29,716,000 in 2005, to $28,181,000 in 2006,
and to  $17,322,000  in 2007.  Prior to the Shurgard  Merger,  Shurgard paid its
property managers higher  compensation  than what we pay our property  managers.
From the date of the merger  until  December 31,  2006,  the  existing  Shurgard

                                       49

<PAGE>

employees'  compensation levels were "frozen" at their existing levels. Starting
January  1,  2007,  the  former  Shurgard   employees  who  remained  had  their
compensation  adjusted  to the  existing  Public  Storage  compensation  levels.
Because  of this  pay  disparity  and our plan to  adjust  the  former  Shurgard
employees'  compensation levels, we expected a significant amount of turnover in
the former  Shurgard  employee  ranks  following the merger,  and as a result we
increased the level of "bench"  property  managers  before the merger so that we
would have  sufficient  staffing for the  properties.  As a result,  average pay
rates for the property managers staffing the Shurgard properties began declining
in Q4 2006, as many of the higher-compensated former Shurgard employees left and
were replaced with new employees at the Public Storage compensation levels. This
decline,  however,  was offset  partially by the impact of increased  numbers of
bench  personnel.  Pay rates dropped further on January 1, 2007 as all employees
were  adjusted to  approximate  the Public  Storage  compensation  levels.  As a
result,   the   compensation   levels  paid  in  2007  approximate  the  ongoing
compensation levels.

     Overall  advertising  and promotion  increased  from  $5,148,000 in 2005 to
$5,639,000 in 2006 and to $6,840,000 in 2007. As noted previously,  we increased
advertising and promotional activities immediately following the Shurgard Merger
in order to improve  the  occupancy  levels of the  facilities  acquired  in the
merger. Shurgard did not employ media advertising and, as a result, there was no
media  advertising  in 2005, as compared to $1,477,000 in 2006 and $3,554,000 in
2007.

     Yellow page expenditures declined from $3,488,000 in 2005, to $3,027,000 in
2006,  to  $1,910,000  in  2007.  These  declines  reflect  the  termination  of
Shurgard's  yellow page ads in 2006, and the allocation of the pro-rata  portion
of Public Storage's  aggregate yellow page  expenditures  following the Shurgard
Merger,  which did not increase as a result of the Shurgard Merger.  Yellow page
expenditure  incurred for 2007 approximates the ongoing expected level of yellow
page costs.

     Utility  expense  increased  8.5% in 2006 as compared to 2005,  and 0.7% in
2007 as compared to 2006.  Future  levels of utility  expenses will be dependent
primarily upon current energy prices and changes in demand driven by weather and
temperature, both of which are volatile and not predictable.

     Other  cost of  management,  which  principally  includes  supervisory  and
indirect  overhead costs,  decreased 9.9% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and 17.1%
in  2007 as  compared  to  2006.  These  reductions  principally  represent  the
synergies  created  by the  merger and the  elimination  of certain  duplicative
operating functions.

                                       50


<PAGE>

     OTHER FACILITIES
     ----------------

     In  addition  to the Public  Storage  and  Shurgard  Same  Store  groups of
facilities, at December 31, 2007, we had 325 facilities that were not classified
into  either  of  these  pools.   These  properties  include  recently  acquired
facilities,  recently  developed  facilities and  facilities  that were recently
expanded by adding  additional  storage units. In general,  these facilities are
not stabilized  with respect to occupancies or rental rates.  As a result of the
fill-up  process  and  timing  of when  the  facilities  were  put  into  place,
year-over-year changes can be significant.

     The  following  table  summarizes  operating  data  with  respect  to these
facilities.
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_52_LINES]

</TABLE>

                                       51

<PAGE>

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_47_LINES]

</TABLE>

(a)  Represents the operations of 11 facilities  acquired in the Shurgard Merger
     which we discontinued  consolidation in our financial  statements effective
     May 24, 2007.  On November 15, 2007,  we acquired a  controlling  ownership
     position  in  five  of  these  previously  deconsolidated  facilities,  and
     recommenced  consolidation of these properties effective November 15, 2007.
     The operations for these 11 facilities from August 23, 2006 through May 24,
     2007,  combined  with  the  operations  of  the  five  facilities  that  we
     recommenced  consolidation  after  November 15, 2007,  are included in this
     table.  The revenues and expenses,  respectively,  of these five facilities
     that we  consolidate  at December  31, 2007 was  $2,063,000  and  $965,000,
     respectively  for the year ended  December 31, 2007,  notwithstanding  that
     only a partial period of operations was included in the table above.

(b)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization or "NOI" is
     a non-GAAP  (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial measure
     that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense, for our
     self-storage  facilities  represents  a portion  of our total  self-storage
     segment's  net  operating  income  before   depreciation  and  amortization
     expense,  and is denoted  in the table  "self-storage  operations  summary"
     above. A reconciliation of our total  self-storage  segment's net operating
     income before  depreciation  and  amortization  expense to consolidated net
     income  is  included  in  Note 14 to our  December  31,  2007  consolidated
     financial  statements,  "Segment  Information."  Although  depreciation and
     amortization  expense  are  operating  expenses,  we believe  that NOI is a
     meaningful  measure of  operating  performance,  because we utilize  NOI in
     making  decisions  with  respect to  capital  allocations,  in  determining
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_3_LINES]

     amortization in evaluating our operating results.

(c)  Includes  133  facilities  acquired in the  Shurgard  Merger  which are not
     stabilized,  as well as 33 other  facilities  that were  acquired  or newly
     developed in 2006.

                                       52

<PAGE>

     The  properties  denoted  under  "Facilities  put in  place  in  2007"  and
"Facilities  put in place in 2006"  were put into  operation  within  the Public
Storage system at various dates throughout each period  presented.  Accordingly,
rental income, cost of operations,  depreciation and amortization, net operating
income,  weighted  average square foot occupancies and realized rents per square
foot  represent the operating  results for the partial  period that we owned the
facilities  during the year acquired.  In addition,  in place rents per occupied
square  foot at  December  31,  2007 and 2006,  reflect  the  amounts  for those
facilities we owned at each of those respective dates.

     In 2007, we acquired seven facilities, in single property transactions, for
an  aggregate  cost  of  $72,787,000.  These  facilities  contain  in  aggregate
approximately  511,000 net rentable  square feet,  with one facility  located in
Hawaii and the remainder in California. In addition, we completed development of
three facilities with aggregate square footage of approximately 168,000 and cost
of $16,051,000.

     In 2006, in addition to the facilities we acquired in the Shurgard  Merger,
we  acquired  a total of 12  self-storage  facilities,  each in single  property
transactions. These 12 facilities contain in aggregate approximately 877,000 net
rentable  square feet and were acquired for an aggregate  cost of  $103,544,000.
These  facilities  are  located  in  California,  Florida,  Illinois,  New York,
Virginia,  New Jersey,  Delaware,  Georgia,  and Colorado.  Effective January 1,
2006, we commenced consolidating the accounts of three limited partnerships that
we had previously  accounted for on the equity method, which owned 16 facilities
with  879,000  net  rentable  square  feet.  We also  opened  5 newly  developed
facilities in 2006.

     In 2005, we acquired a total of 32 self-storage facilities,  principally in
single-property  transactions,  for an  aggregate  cost of  $254,549,000.  These
facilities contain in the aggregate  approximately 2,390,000 net rentable square
feet and are located  principally in the Atlanta,  Chicago,  Miami, and New York
metropolitan markets.

     Effective  May  24,  2007,  due  to  a  loss  in  control  of  the  related
partnerships that owned these facilities, we began deconsolidating 11 facilities
with an aggregate of 624,000 net rentable  square feet  (referred to hereinafter
as "The Deconsolidated  Shurgard Properties") that we had originally acquired in
the  Shurgard  Merger.  On  November  15,  2007,  as a  result  of  acquiring  a
controlling  ownership interest,  we recommenced  consolidating five of these 11
facilities in our  operations.  The operating  results for these  facilities are
included  in the  table  above  for the  period  each  respective  facility  was
consolidated.  Our pro-rata share of the operating results of the Deconsolidated
Shurgard  Properties for the periods they were not consolidated are presented in
Equity in Earnings of Real Estate Entities.

     We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially  all of the major
markets in the U.S.  enhances  our  ability to identify  attractive  acquisition
opportunities  and capitalize on the overall  fragmentation  in the self-storage
industry.  Our acquisitions consist of facilities that have been operating for a
number of years as well as newly constructed facilities that were in the process
of filling up to stabilized  occupancy levels. In either case, we have been able
to leverage off of our operating  strategies and improve the occupancy levels of
the facilities,  or with respect to the newly developed  facilities we have been
able to accelerate the fill-up pace.

     We expect  that our  non-stabilized  facilities  will  continue  to provide
earnings  growth  during  2007 and into  2008 as these  facilities  continue  to
improve their occupancy levels as well as realized rental rates.

     The Expansion  facilities represent facilities that have been or are in the
process of being  expanded in terms of their  square  footage.  We have spent an
aggregate of $50,625,000 and $45,300,000 in expanding our facilities in 2007 and
2006, respectively.

     Our level of new development starts has declined  significantly in the last
few years due to increases in construction  cost,  increases in competition with
retail,  condominium,  and apartment operators for quality construction sites in
urban locations,  and more difficult zoning and permitting  requirements,  which
has reduced the number of attractive sites available for development and reduced
our development of facilities.  It is unclear when, or if, these conditions will
improve.

                                       53

<PAGE>

     EUROPEAN SELF-STORAGE OPERATIONS
     --------------------------------

     In the Shurgard Merger, we acquired 160 facilities located in seven Western
European  countries  with an aggregate of  8,385,000  net rentable  square feet.
Since the Shurgard Merger,  we opened 15 additional  self-storage  facilities in
Europe with an  aggregate  of 785,000 net  rentable  square  feet.  In addition,
during  2007,  we  discontinued  a facility  (55,000 net  rentable  square feet)
located in France.  At December 31, 2007, our European  operations  comprise 174
facilities with an aggregate of 9,115,000 net rentable square feet, of which, 96
of these facilities are referred to as the Europe Same Store Facilities (defined
below). The portfolio consists of 104 facilities are wholly owned facilities and
70 facilities  owned by the two joint venture  partnerships,  in which we have a
20% equity interest.

     The following table summarizes  certain  financial data with respect to our
self-storage  operations  from the date of the Shurgard Merger (August 23, 2006)
through December 31, 2006:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_37_LINES]

</TABLE>

                                       54

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Europe self - storage operations summary:
   (Continued)
                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                                             Percentage
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_26_LINES]

</TABLE>

(a)  The European Same Store  facilities,  described  below, are comprised of 96
     facilities that are wholly-owned.

(b)  The other  wholly-owned  facilities include eight facilities that we wholly
     own, which are not considered European Same Store facilities.

(c)  Nine facilities were acquired or developed  during 2007 for an aggregate of
     approximately $90,075,000. Our joint ventures own eight of these facilities
     with aggregate development costs of $81,185,000.

(d)  The  joint  ventures,  in  which  we  have a 20%  equity  interest,  own 70
     facilities which were acquired or developed from 2003 to 2007.

(e)  Total net operating income before depreciation and amortization  expense or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense,
     for  our  commercial  property  segment  is  presented  in  Note  14 to our
     consolidated financial statements,  "Segment Information," which includes a
     reconciliation of net operating income before depreciation and amortization
     expense  for  this  segment  to  our  consolidated  net  income.   Although
     depreciation and amortization are operating  expenses,  we believe that NOI
     is a meaningful measure of operating performance, because we utilize NOI in
     making  decisions  with  respect to  capital  allocations,  in  determining
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_3_LINES]

     amortization expense in evaluating our operating results.

     Amounts  presented  in the table above  reflect  significant  increases  in
revenues  and cost of  operations,  in 2007 as  compared  to  2006,  and 2006 as
compared to 2005,  due to the Shurgard  Merger which was completed on August 23,
2006  (see  Note 3 to the  consolidated  financial  statements).  The  operating
results of all of the  facilities  acquired  in the merger and located in Europe
are  included  in our  financial  statements  and in the table above for periods
after the merger.

     The  Joint  Venture  opened  eight  facilities  in 2007  with an  aggregate
development  cost of $81,185,000.  Revenues and expenses  presented in the table
above  with  respect  to  these  properties  totaled  $869,000  and  $2,347,000,
respectively.

     The operating data presented in the table below reflect the historical data
through August 22, 2006, the period for which the 96 facilities were operated by
Shurgard,  combined  with the  historical  data from  August  23,  2006  through

                                       55

<PAGE>

December 31, 2007, the period  operated under Public Storage.  In addition,  the
table utilizes the average  exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2007,
rather than the respective  exchange rates in effect for each period. We present
this data on such a "constant  exchange rate" basis because we believe it allows
comparability of the various periods,  and isolates the impact of exchange rates
with respect to the trends in revenues and cost of operations.  As a result, the
data  presented  below does not  reflect  the  actual  results  included  in our
operations for 2005, 2006, and 2007.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_49_LINES]


</TABLE>


(a)  We acquired the Shurgard  Europe Same Store  facilities in connection  with
     the Shurgard Merger which was completed on August 22, 2006. Included in our
     consolidated financial statements are only the historical operating results
     for these  facilities from the date of the Shurgard Merger through December
     31, 2007, the time that these  facilities were owned by us. For comparative
     purposes,  however,  the table  above  includes  the  historical  operating
     results for these facilities for each of the three years ended December 31,
     2007,  which  includes  operations  prior to the  Shurgard  Merger  and not
     included in our consolidated financial statements.

(b)  The majority of our  European  operations  are  denominated  in Euros.  For
     comparative  purposes,  amounts for 2005,  2006, and 2007 are translated at
     constant  exchange rates  representing  the average  exchange rates for the
     year ended  December 31, 2007.  The average  exchange rate for the Euro was
     approximately  1.3698  during  2007.  The amounts  that are included in our
     consolidated  financial  statements are based upon the actual exchange rate
     for each  period.

(c)  Revenues  and cost of  operations  do not include  ancillary  revenues  and
     expenses generated at the facilities with respect to tenant reinsurance and
     retail sales.  "Other costs of  management"  included in cost of operations
     principally represents all the indirect costs incurred in the operations of
     the facilities.  Indirect costs principally  include  supervisory costs and
     corporate overhead cost incurred to support the operating activities of the
     facilities.

                                       56

<PAGE>

(d)  Net operating income (excluding  depreciation and amortization  expense) or
     "NOI" is a non-GAAP (generally accepted  accounting  principles)  financial
     measure that excludes the impact of depreciation and amortization  expense.
     Although  depreciation and amortization are operating expenses,  we believe
     that NOI is a  meaningful  measure  of  operating  performance,  because we
     utilize NOI in making  decisions  with respect to capital  allocations,  in
     determining  current property values,  segment  performance,  and comparing
     period-to-period  and  market-to-market  property operating results. NOI is
     not  a  substitute  for  net  operating   income  after   depreciation  and
     amortization  expense in  evaluating  our  operating  results.  We have not
     presented  depreciation  and  amortization  expense  for  these  facilities
     because the depreciation and amortization  expense is based upon historical
     cost, which is substantially different before the merger and after.

(e)  Square foot occupancies  represent  weighted average  occupancy levels over
     the entire period.

(f)  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square foot is computed by  annualizing
     the result of  dividing  rental  income by the  weighted  average  occupied
     square  footage for the period.  Realized  annual rent per occupied  square
     foot takes into  consideration  promotional  discounts and other costs that
     reduce rental income from the contractual amounts due.

(g)  Annualized  rental income per available  square foot ("REVPAF")  represents
     annualized  rental income  divided by total  available net rentable  square
     feet.

(h)  Late charges and  administrative  fees are excluded from the computation of
     realized annual rent per occupied square foot and REVPAF because  exclusion
     of these amounts provides a better measure of our ongoing level of revenue,
     by  excluding  the   volatility  of  late  charges,   which  are  dependent
     principally upon the level of tenant delinquency,  and administrative fees,
     which are dependent  principally  upon the absolute level of move-ins for a
     period.

(i)  In place  annual  rent  per  occupied  square  foot  represents  annualized
     contractual   rents  per  occupied  square  foot  without   reductions  for
     promotional discounts, and excludes late charges and administrative fees.

     The Europe Same Store properties  continue to reflect above average growth.
With  occupancy  stabilized  at above 90%, we believe we have pricing  power and
expect  to  generate  additional  growth  through  rental  rate  increases.  The
properties  are also  benefiting  from  expense  control,  resulting in negative
expense  growth.  The European team is selectively  adapting  various  operating
strategies we use in the U.S. and incorporating them into their operating model.

     The following  table sets forth certain  regional trends in the Europe Same
Store facilities:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_33_LINES]

</TABLE>

                                       57

<PAGE>


(continued)
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_62_LINES]

</TABLE>

                                       58


<PAGE>


     ANCILLARY  OPERATIONS:  Ancillary operations include (i) the reinsurance of
policies  against  losses  to  goods  stored  by  tenants  in  our  self-storage
facilities,  (ii) sale of  merchandise  at our  self-storage  facilities,  (iii)
containerized  storage  operations,  (iv)  truck  rentals  at  our  self-storage
facilities  and (v)  commercial  property  operations,  and (vi)  management  of
facilities  owned by third-party  owners and facilities owned by affiliates that
are not included in our consolidated financial statements.


     The following table sets forth our ancillary operations:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_49_LINES]

</TABLE>


     TENANT  REINSURANCE  OPERATIONS:  We reinsure  policies  offered  through a
non-affiliated insurance broker against losses to goods stored by tenants in our
self-storage  facilities.  Revenues  are  comprised  of fees  charged to tenants
electing such policies.  Cost of operations  primarily includes claims paid that
are not covered by our outside third-party insurers, as well as claims adjusting
expenses.

     The significant increase in tenant reinsurance  operations is due primarily
to the increase in properties  associated with the Shurgard Merger.  In 2007 and
2006, respectively, tenant insurance revenues included $9,560,000 and $3,243,000
with  respect  to  the  Shurgard  facilities  in the  U.S.  and  $9,605,000  and
$2,731,000,   respectively,   in  tenant  insurance  revenues  with  respect  to
facilities in Europe.

                                       59

<PAGE>

     Further  contributing to our increase in tenant  reinsurance  revenues were
higher  rates,  and an  increase  in the  percentage  of  our  existing  tenants
retaining such policies, with respect to our ongoing tenant insurance activities
in the U.S.  Approximately  45.5%,  35.1%,  and  32.4% of our  tenants  had such
policies during 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively.

     The future level of tenant  reinsurance  revenues is largely dependent upon
the number of new tenants electing to purchase  policies,  the level of premiums
charged  for  such   insurance,   and  the  number  of  tenants  that   continue
participating in the insurance program.

     The future cost of operations will be dependent primarily upon the level of
losses incurred, including the level of catastrophic events, such as hurricanes,
that occur and affect our properties.

     MERCHANDISE  AND TRUCK  RENTAL  OPERATIONS:  Our  subsidiaries  sell locks,
boxes,  and  packing  supplies  to our  tenants as well as the  general  public.
Revenues and cost of operations  for these  activities are included in the table
above as "Merchandise  Sales." In addition,  at selected  locations in the U.S.,
our subsidiaries maintain trucks on site for rent to our self-storage  customers
and the general public on a short-term basis for local use. In addition, we also
act as an agent for a national  truck  rental  company to provide  their  rental
trucks to customers for  long-distance  use. The revenues and cost of operations
for these activities are included in the table above as "Truck rentals."

     These  activities  generally  serve  as  an  adjunct  to  our  self-storage
operations  providing  our  tenants  with goods and  services  that they need in
connection with moving and storing their goods.

     The primary factor impacting the level of operations of these activities is
the level of customer  traffic at our  self-storage  facilities,  including  the
level of  move-ins.  The  significant  increase in  merchandise  revenues is due
primarily to the increase in properties  associated with the Shurgard Merger. In
2007 and  2006,  respectively,  merchandise  revenues  included  $8,477,000  and
$2,674,000  with respect to the Shurgard  facilities in the United  States;  and
$7,963,000 and $2,390,000, respectively, in merchandise revenues with respect to
Shurgard  Europe.  In 2007  and  2006,  respectively,  truck  revenues  included
$1,694,000 and $795,000 with respect to the Shurgard facilities in the U.S.

     CONTAINERIZED STORAGE OPERATIONS:  We have containerized storage facilities
located in eight densely populated markets with above-average rent and income.

     Rental and other income  includes  monthly  rental charges to customers for
storage of the  containers,  service  fees  charged  for pickup and  delivery of
containers to customers'  homes and  businesses  and certain  non-core  services
which were eliminated,  such as handling and packing  customers' goods from city
to city.  Direct operating costs principally  includes payroll,  equipment lease
expense, utilities and vehicle expenses (fuel and insurance).

     We closed certain  containerized  storage  locations;  the results of these
facilities  for all periods  presented have been  reclassified  to the line item
"discontinued operations."

     There  can be no  assurance  as to the level of the  containerized  storage
business's   expansion,   level  of  gross   rentals,   level  of  move-outs  or
profitability. We continue to evaluate the business's operations, based on which
we have closed certain of these facilities in recent years, and we may decide to
close additional facilities in the future.

     COMMERCIAL PROPERTY OPERATIONS:  Commercial property operations included in
our  consolidated  financial  statements  include  commercial space owned by the
Company and entities consolidated by the Company. We have a much larger interest
in commercial  properties  through our ownership interest in PSB. Our investment
in PSB is accounted for using the equity method of accounting,  and  accordingly
our share of PSB's  earnings is  reflected as "Equity in earnings of real estate
entities," below.

                                       60

<PAGE>

     Our commercial  operations  are comprised of 1,455,000 net rentable  square
feet of  commercial  space,  which is  principally  operated  at  certain of the
self-storage  facilities.   The  significant  increase  in  commercial  property
revenues is due principally to commercial space in the facilities we acquired in
the Shurgard Merger in the U.S.

     Our commercial property operations consist primarily of facilities that are
at a stabilized level of operations, and generally reflect the conditions in the
markets in which they operate.  We do not expect any  significant  growth in net
operating income from this segment of our business for 2008.

     EQUITY IN EARNINGS OF REAL ESTATE ENTITIES: In addition to our ownership of
equity  interests  in PSB, we had general and limited  partnership  interests in
five limited partnerships at December 31, 2007 (PSB and the limited partnerships
are  collectively  referred  to as the  "Unconsolidated  Entities").  Due to our
limited  ownership  interest and limited  control of these  entities,  we do not
consolidate the accounts of these entities for financial reporting purposes, and
account for such investments using the equity method.

     Equity in earnings of real estate  entities for the year ended December 31,
2007 consists of our pro-rata  share of the  Unconsolidated  Entities based upon
our  ownership  interest  for the  period.  The  following  table sets forth the
significant components of equity in earnings of real estate entities:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_38_LINES]

</TABLE>

(1)  Amounts  primarily reflect equity in earnings recorded for investments that
     have been held consistently throughout each of the years ended December 31,
     2007,  2006 and 2005,  including our  investment in the  Acquisition  Joint
     Venture that is accounted for on the equity method of accounting  (see Note
     8 to our consolidated financial statements).

(2)  On  January 1, 2006,  we  commenced  consolidating  the  accounts  of three
     limited  partnerships that we had previously accounted for under the equity
     method of accounting.  Accordingly,  equity in income with respect to these
     partnerships ceased effective January 1, 2006. In addition, as described in
     Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements,  we deconsolidated certain
     investments in limited  partnerships owning 11 properties effective May 24,
     2007, and equity in earnings with respect to these  partnerships  commenced
     effective May 24, 2007. We  subsequently  acquired  interests in certain of
     these  deconsolidated  partnerships  owning five properties and recommenced
     consolidating these interests effective November 17, 2007.

(3)  "Other" reflects our share of general and administrative expense,  interest
     expense, interest income, and other non-property;  non-depreciation related
     operating results of these entities.

                                       61

<PAGE>

(4)  "Other"  with respect to PSB also  includes our pro-rata  share of gains on
     sale of real estate assets, impairment charges relating to pending sales of
     real estate and the impact of PSB's application of the SEC's  clarification
     of EITF Topic D-42 on redemptions of preferred securities.

     Our  investment in PSB has remained  consistent  throughout the years ended
December 31, 2007,  2006 and 2005).  Throughout  2005,  2006 and 2007,  we owned
5,418,273 common shares and 7,305,355  operating  partnership units (units which
are convertible  into common shares on a one-for-one  basis) in PSB. At December
31,  2007,  PSB owned and  operated  19.6  million net  rentable  square feet of
commercial  space located in eight  states.  PSB also manages  commercial  space
owned by the Company and  affiliated  entities at December 31, 2007  pursuant to
property management agreements.

     Our future  equity  income from PSB will be dependent  entirely  upon PSB's
operating results.  Our investment in PSB provides us with some  diversification
into another asset type. We have no plans of disposing of our investment in PSB.
PSB's filings and selected  financial  information  can be accessed  through the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and on its website, www.psbusinessparks.com.

     The  "Consistent  Investments"  are  comprised  primarily  of our equity in
earnings  from four limited  partnerships,  as well as our equity in earnings of
two properties owned by the Acquisition Joint Venture as described more fully in
Note  8 to  our  consolidated  financial  statements.  We  held  an  approximate
consistent level of equity interest throughout 2005, 2006, and 2007. The Company
formed the four  limited  partnerships  during  the  1980's  and is the  general
partner of these partnerships, and we entered into the Acquisition Joint Venture
in  2004.  We  manage  each of these  facilities  for a  management  fee that is
included  in  "Ancillary   operations."   The  limited   partners  of  the  four
partnerships  consist of numerous individual  investors,  including the Company,
which throughout the 1990's acquired units of limited  partnership  interests in
these limited partnerships in various transactions.

     Our future  earnings with respect to the "Consistent  Investments"  will be
dependent  upon the operating  results of the 22  self-storage  facilities  that
these  entities  own. The  operating  characteristics  of these  facilities  are
similar to those of the Company's  self-storage  facilities,  and are subject to
the same operational issues as the Same Store Facilities as discussed above. See
Note 5 to our  consolidated  financial  statements for the operating  results of
these entities for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005.

OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE ITEMS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     INTEREST AND OTHER  INCOME:  Interest and other income was  $11,417,000  in
2007,  $31,799,000 in 2006, and  $16,447,000 in 2005.  Interest and other income
has decreased in 2007 as compared to 2006  principally as a result of lower cash
balances  invested  in interest  bearing  accounts,  offset by  slightly  higher
interest rates.  Interest and other income increased in 2006 as compared to 2005
principally  as a result of higher  average cash  balances  invested in interest
bearing  accounts at higher interest rates. The changes in average cash balances
are  primarily  due to the timing of  investing  retained  cash into real estate
assets; in the case of 2006, we had significant cash balances from proceeds from
preferred equity issuances completed in anticipation of the Shurgard Merger.

     DEPRECIATION AND  AMORTIZATION:  Depreciation and amortization  expense was
$622,410,000,  $437,568,000  and  $196,153,000  for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

     The increases in depreciation and amortization expense in 2007 and 2006 are
due  primarily to the  amortization  of  intangibles  acquired  primarily in the
Shurgard Merger totaling  $247,844,000 in 2007 and  $175,944,000 in 2006.  These
intangible  assets  represent  the value of the storage  tenants in place at the
time of the merger,  and are being  amortized  relative to the  expected  future
benefit of the tenants in place to each  period.  These  increases  also reflect
depreciation  of  the  buildings  acquired  in  the  Shurgard  Merger,  totaling
approximately  $142,800,000  in 2007 and  $61,703,000  in 2006. In addition,  we
acquired and opened for operations additional  self-storage  facilities in 2005,
2006, and 2007, resulting in increased  depreciation expense of the buildings of
these  facilities.  Depreciation  expense  in 2007 with  respect  to  facilities
acquired or opened for  operations  in 2007  totaled  $2,206,000.  We expect the
depreciation expense with respect to these facilities to approximate  $4,361,000
in 2008.

                                       62

<PAGE>

     GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSE:  General and administrative expense was
$59,749,000, $84,661,000, and $21,115,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005  respectively.  General  and  administrative  expense  principally
consists of state income taxes,  investor relations expenses,  and corporate and
executive salaries.  In addition,  general and administrative  expenses includes
expenses that vary depending on the Company's  activity levels in certain areas,
such as overhead  associated with the acquisition and development of real estate
facilities,   certain  expenses  related  to  capital  raising  and  merger  and
acquisition activities, employee severance, and stock-based compensation.

     General and  administrative  expense includes the following items that vary
depending upon our  activities:  a) costs and expenses  totaling  $5,300,000 and
$44,010,000, respectively, during 2007 and 2006, incurred in connection with the
integration  of Shurgard and Public  Storage b) costs for cancelled  development
projects in the U.S. and Europe totaling  $2,120,000 and $10,211,000 in 2007 and
2006, respectively;  c) $9,600,000 related to our proposed offering of shares in
our European business in 2007; d) $2,019,000  associated with our reorganization
as a Maryland REIT in 2007; e) $1,900,000 in additional  incentive  compensation
in 2007;  and f) contract  termination  fees of $2,213,000 in 2006. In addition,
with the Shurgard Merger, we began to incur general and  administrative  expense
relating to the management and administration of the European operations,  which
are operated under a separate management team.

     Restricted  stock  and  stock  option  expense  amounted  to  approximately
$8,511,000,  $6,309,000,  and  $4,758,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively.

     INTEREST  EXPENSE:  Interest  expense  was  $63,671,000,  $33,062,000,  and
$8,216,000 for the years ended December 31, 2007,  2006 and 2005,  respectively.
The  increases  in  interest  expense  in 2006  and 2007  are  primarily  due to
$24,855,000  and  $58,656,000  in  interest  incurred  on  the  debt  and  other
obligations  we assumed in the  Shurgard  Merger.  See also Notes 7 and 8 to our
consolidated financial statements for a schedule of our debt balances, principal
repayment requirements, and average interest rates.

     Capitalized interest expense totaled $4,746,000, $2,716,000, and $2,820,000
for the  years  ended  December  31,  2007,  2006  and  2005,  respectively,  in
connection with our development activities. Included in the interest capitalized
for 2007 and 2006 is $2,710,000 and $935,000,  respectively,  in connection with
our development activities in Europe.

     GAIN ON DISPOSITION OF REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS: During 2007, 2006, and 2005
we have recorded gains on sale of assets,  principally partial condemnations and
other disposals of real estate facilities, totaling $1,354,000,  $2,177,000, and
$3,099,000, respectively, in 2007, 2006, and 2005.

     In addition, on May 14, 2007, one of our European subsidiaries sold limited
liability partner  interests ("LLP Interests") it held in Shurgard  Self-Storage
SCA  ("Shurgard  Europe"),  also an indirect  subsidiary of Public  Storage,  to
various  officers of the Company  other than our chief  executive  officer.  The
aggregate  proceeds  of the sale  were  $4,909,000.  The sale  price for the LLP
Interests  was the net asset value per LLP  Interest  using,  among other items,
information  provided by an  independent  third party  appraisal firm of the net
asset value of Shurgard Europe as of March 31, 2007. In connection with the sale
of  these  LLP  Interests,  we  recorded  a  gain  of  $1,193,000  during  2007,
representing  the  excess of the sales  proceeds  less the book value of the LLP
Interests  sold.  The gain is  reflected in gain on  disposition  of real estate
investments in our accompanying consolidated statements of income.

     FOREIGN EXCHANGE GAIN: At December 31, 2007, our European subsidiaries owed
approximately  (euro)377.7  million  ($555.9 million as of December 31, 2007) to
our  domestic  subsidiaries.  The  loans are  eliminated  in  consolidation  for
financial  reporting  purposes.  We expect our European  subsidiaries  to obtain
external financing in the next 12 to 24 months, which will fund the repayment of

                                       63

<PAGE>

the loans. The loans,  which are denominated in Euros, have not been hedged. The
amount of US dollars  that will be  received on  repayment  will depend upon the
exchange rates at the time.  Based upon the change in estimated US dollars to be
received caused by fluctuation in currency rates during 2007,  foreign  currency
translation  gains of $57.6  million  were  recorded  in 2007.  The U.S.  Dollar
exchange rate relative to the Euro was approximately 1.319 and 1.472 at December
31, 2006 and 2007, respectively.

     Future foreign  exchange  gains or losses will be dependent  primarily upon
the  movement  of the  Euro  relative  to the  U.S.  Dollar,  the  level  of our
intercompany  debt  and our  continued  expectation  with  respect  to  repaying
intercompany debt.

     HURRICANE CASUALTY GAIN OR LOSS: Our policy is to record casualty losses or
gains in the period the casualty  occurs equal to the  differential  between (a)
the book value of assets destroyed and (b) insurance  proceeds,  if any, that we
expect  to  receive  in  accordance  with  our  insurance  contracts.  Potential
insurance proceeds that are subject to uncertainties,  such as interpretation of
deductible  provisions of the governing agreements or the estimation of costs of
restoration,  are treated as a contingent  proceeds in accordance with Statement
of Financial  Accounting  Standards No. 5 ("SFAS 5"), and not recorded until the
uncertainties  are satisfied.  During 2007, we recorded a casualty gain totaling
$2,665,000, representing the realization of such contingent proceeds relating to
hurricanes  which occurred in 2005.  During 2005, we recorded a casualty loss of
$1,917,000 related to damage to our properties from hurricanes.

     INCOME  FROM  DERIVATIVES,  NET:  This  represents  the net gain or loss as
recognized  for the  changes  in the fair  market  values  of  those  derivative
financial  instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting  treatment under
SFAS No.  133,  combined  with net  payments  from  derivative  instruments.  We
recognized  net income of $851,000 and  $3,926,000  for the years ended December
31, 2007 and 2006,  respectively.  The  decrease in income in 2006 is due to the
extinguishment  of certain  derivatives on January 2, 2007 and, as a result,  no
further gains or losses or net payments  resulted for these  derivatives.  We do
not expect any significant activity in these derivatives in 2008.

     MINORITY  INTEREST IN INCOME:  Minority  interest in income  represents the
income that is allocable to equity interests in the Consolidated Entities, which
are not owned by the Company.  The following table summarizes  minority interest
in income for each of the three years ended December 31, 2007:
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_17_LINES]

</TABLE>


(a)  The increase in  preferred  partnership  interests is primarily  due to the
     issuance of additional preferred partnership units offset by the redemption
     of $40,000,000  of our 9.5% Series N Preferred  Units on March 17, 2005 and
     $45,000,000 of our 9.125% Series O Preferred units on March 29, 2005.

(b)  These  amounts  reflect  income  allocated to minority  interests for three
     entities that we commenced consolidating the accounts for effective January
     1, 2006 (see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).  Included in
     minority  interest in income for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006
     was $108,000 and $132,000 in depreciation expense.

(c)  These amounts reflect income allocated to minority  interests from entities
     we  acquired  in the  Shurgard  Merger.  These  interests  include  the 80%
     partner's  interests in the European  joint  ventures,  First  Shurgard and
     Second Shurgard,  as well as those in domestic joint ventures.  Included in
     minority  interest in income is  $11,513,000  and  $3,013,000 for the years
     ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 in depreciation expense.

(d)  The other minority  interest  include  depreciation  expense of $2,437,000,
     $1,339,000, and $3,152,000, respectively, for 2007, 2006, and 2005.

     The level of income allocated to these interests in the future is dependent
upon the operating results of the storage facilities that these entities own, as
well as any minority interests that the Company acquires in the future.

                                       64

<PAGE>

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     We believe that our  internally  generated  net cash  provided by operating
activities  will  continue to be  sufficient  to enable us to meet our operating
expenses,  capital  improvements,  debt service  requirements and  distributions
requirements to shareholders for the foreseeable future.

     Operating as a REIT,  our ability to retain cash flow for  reinvestment  is
restricted.  In order for us to maintain our REIT status, a substantial  portion
of  our  operating  cash  flow  must  be  used  to  make  distributions  to  our
shareholders (see "Requirement to Pay Distributions"  below).  However,  despite
the  significant  distribution  requirements,  we have  been  able to  retain  a
significant  amount of our operating cash flow. The following  table  summarizes
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_32_LINES]

</TABLE>

(a)  Represents net cash provided from operating  activities for each respective
     year as presented in our December 31, 2007 Consolidated  Statements of Cash
     Flows.

(b)  Cash  available for principal  payments on debt and  reinvestment  is not a
     substitute  for cash flows from  operations  in our  liquidity,  ability to
     repay our debt, or to meet our distribution requirements.

     Cash available for principal  payments on debt and  reinvestment  increased
from  $143.2  million  in 2006 to $324.3  million in 2007  principally  due to a
significant  increase in our self-storage  operations,  primarily as a result of
the Shurgard Merger,  as well as additional tax depreciation with respect to the
assets acquired in the Shurgard Merger which serves to reduce our taxable income
and required distributions requirements.

     Our  financial  profile is  characterized  by a low level of  debt-to-total
capitalization  and a  conservative  dividend  payout  ratio with respect to the
common shares. We expect to fund our growth strategies and debt obligations with
(i) cash on hand at December 31, 2007, (ii) internally  generated  retained cash
flows and (iii) proceeds from issuing equity securities. In general, our current
strategy is to continue to finance  our growth with  permanent  capital,  either
common or preferred equity.

     Over  the  past  three  years,  we  have  funded  substantially  all of our
acquisitions with permanent capital (both common and preferred  securities).  We
have elected to use preferred  securities as a form of leverage despite the fact
that the dividend rates of our preferred securities exceed the prevailing market
interest rates on conventional debt. We have chosen this method of financing for
the following  reasons:  (i) under the REIT structure,  a significant  amount of
operating  cash flow  needs to be  distributed  to our  shareholders,  making it
difficult  to repay debt with  operating  cash flow  alone,  (ii) our  perpetual
preferred  shares have no sinking fund  requirement  or maturity date and do not
require  redemption,  all of which eliminate any future refinancing risks, (iii)
after the end of a non-call  period,  we have the option to redeem the preferred

                                       65

<PAGE>

shares at any time,  which enable us to refinance higher coupon preferred shares
with new preferred  shares at lower rates if appropriate,  (iv) preferred shares
do not contain  covenants,  thus allowing us to maintain  significant  financial
flexibility, and (v) dividends on the preferred shares can be applied to satisfy
our REIT distribution requirements.

     Our credit ratings on each of our series of preferred  shares are "Baa1" by
Moody's and "BBB+" by Standard & Poor's.

     On March 27, 2007, we entered into a five-year  revolving  credit agreement
(the "Credit  Agreement")  with an aggregate  limit with respect to  borrowings,
letters of credit and foreign currency  borrowings in Euros or British pounds of
$300 million.  Amounts drawn under the Credit  Agreement bear an annual interest
rate ranging from the London  Interbank  Offered  Rate  ("LIBOR")  plus 0.35% to
LIBOR plus 1.00%  depending on our credit  ratings (LIBOR plus 0.35% at December
31, 2007). In addition,  we are required to pay a quarterly facility fee ranging
from 0.10% per annum to 0.25% per annum  depending on our credit  ratings (0.10%
per annum at December 31, 2007). We had no outstanding  borrowings on our Credit
Agreement at December 31, 2007 or February 28, 2008.

     At December  31,  2007,  we had undrawn  standby  letters of credit,  which
reduce our  borrowing  capacity with respect to our line of credit by the amount
of the standby letters of credit, totaling $20.4 million.

     The Credit Agreement  includes various  covenants,  the more significant of
which require us to (i) maintain a leverage  ratio (as defined  therein) of less
than 0.55 to 1.00,  (ii)  maintain  certain  fixed charge and interest  coverage
ratios  (as  defined  therein)  of not  less  than  1.5 to 1.0 and  1.75 to 1.0,
respectively,  and (iii)  maintain  a minimum  total  shareholders'  equity  (as
defined  therein).  We were in  compliance  with  all  covenants  of the  Credit
Agreement at December 31, 2007.

     RECENT ISSUANCE OF PREFERRED  SHARES AND PROJECTED  REDEMPTION OF PREFERRED
SECURITIES: One of our financing objectives over the past several years has been
to reduce our average cost of capital with respect to our preferred  securities.
Accordingly,  we have redeemed higher rate preferred securities  outstanding and
have  financed the  redemption  with cash on-hand or from the proceeds  from the
issuance of lower rate preferred securities.

     We believe  that our size and  financial  flexibility  enables us to access
capital when appropriate. Since the beginning of 2005 through December 31, 2007,
we have raised  approximately  $2.6  billion of preferred  securities,  and used
approximately   $1.2   billion  of  these  net   proceeds  in  order  to  redeem
higher-coupon  preferred  securities.  Over the past several  months,  accessing
capital through the credit markets has become very difficult, in part due to the
lack of liquidity.

     At December  31, 2007,  our 7.500%  Series V  Cumulative  Preferred  Shares
($172.5  million)  were  redeemable at our option;  however,  we have not called
these shares for  redemption.  In addition,  in October 2008 our 6.500% Series W
Cumulative  Preferred Shares ($132.5  million),  and in November 2008 our 6.450%
Series X Cumulative  Preferred  Shares  ($120.0  million)  become  available for
redemption at our option.  It is not advantageous to redeem these shares at this
time because,  based upon current market conditions,  we cannot issue additional
preferred  securities at a lower coupon rate than the  securities  that would be
called. The timing of redemption of any of these series of preferred shares will
depend upon many factors including when, or if, market  conditions  improve such
that we can  issue new  preferred  shares at a lower  cost of  capital  than the
shares that would be redeemed.

     In the past we have typically raised  additional  capital in advance of the
redemption  dates  to  ensure  that we have  available  funds  to  redeem  these
securities.  Provided  market  conditions  improve in the  future,  we may raise
capital in advance to fund redemptions.

     REQUIREMENT TO PAY DISTRIBUTIONS:  We have operated, and intend to continue
to  operate,  in such a manner as to qualify  as a REIT  under the Code,  but no
assurance can be given that we will at all times so qualify.  To the extent that
the Company  continues to qualify as a REIT, we will not be taxed,  with certain
limited   exceptions,   on  the  taxable  income  that  is  distributed  to  our
shareholders, provided that at least 90% of our taxable income is so distributed
to our  shareholders.  We  believe  we  have  satisfied  the  REIT  distribution
requirement since 1981.

     Aggregate  dividends paid during 2007 totaled $236.7 million to the holders
of our Cumulative Preferred Shares,  $340.0 million to the holders of our common
shares and $21.4 million to the holders of our Equity Shares, Series A. Although
we have not finalized the  calculation  of our 2007 taxable  income,  we believe
that the  aggregate  dividends  paid in 2007 to our  shareholders  enable  us to
continue to meet our REIT distribution requirements.

                                       66

<PAGE>


     During 2007, we paid  distributions  totaling $21.6 million with respect to
our Preferred Partnership Units. We estimate the 2008 distribution  requirements
with respect to the  preferred  partnership  units  outstanding  at December 31,
2007,  to be  approximately  $21.6  million.  In addition,  we estimate the 2008
distribution  requirements  with respect to our preferred shares  outstanding at
December 31, 2007, to be  approximately  $241.3 million,  assuming no additional
preferred share issuances or redemptions during 2008.

     For 2008,  distributions  with  respect  to the  common  shares  and Equity
Shares,   Series  A  will  be  determined  based  upon  our  REIT   distribution
requirements  after taking into  consideration  distributions  to the  preferred
shareholders.  We anticipate  that, at a minimum,  quarterly  distributions  per
common share for 2008 will be $0.55 per common  share.  For the first quarter of
2008, a quarterly  distribution  of $0.55 per common share has been  declared by
our Board,  representing a 10% increase from our previous  dividend of $0.50 per
common share.

     With  respect to the  depositary  shares  representing  the Equity  Shares,
Series A, we have no obligation to pay  distributions  if no  distributions  are
paid  to  the  common  shareholders.  To  the  extent  that  we  do  pay  common
distributions  in any year, the holders of the depositary  shares receive annual
distributions  equal to the lesser of (i) five times the per share  dividend  on
the common shares or (ii) $2.45. The depositary shares are  non-cumulative,  and
have  no  preference  over  our  Common  Shares  either  as to  dividends  or in
liquidation.

     CAPITAL   IMPROVEMENT   REQUIREMENTS:   During  2008,   we  have   budgeted
approximately $92 million for capital  improvements for our facilities.  Capital
improvements include major repairs or replacements to the facilities, which keep
the  facilities in good  operating  condition and maintain  their visual appeal.
Capital  improvements  do not  include  costs  relating  to the  development  or
expansion of  facilities.  During the year ended  December 31, 2007, we incurred
capital improvements of approximately $69.1 million.

     EUROPEAN ACTIVITIES:  As we previously disclosed, we attempted to liquidate
a portion of our  investment  in our  European  subsidiaries  through an initial
public offering,  and although market  conditions are not favorable at this time
for such a  transaction,  we  continue to evaluate  our  alternatives  and still
believe that a public entity is the best structure for our European  operations'
long-term  growth.  At  December  31,  2007,  our  European   subsidiaries  owed
approximately  (euro)377.7  million  ($555.9 million as of December 31, 2007) to
our  domestic  subsidiaries.  We  expect  our  European  subsidiaries  to obtain
external financing in the next 12 to 24 months, which will fund the repayment of
the loan,  resulting in the receipt of  additional  cash.  The loans,  which are
denominated in Euros,  have not been hedged to limit our exposure to fluctuation
in exchange rates between the Euro and the U.S. Dollar; as a result,  the amount
of U.S.  Dollars  that will be received on repayment  will depend upon  exchange
rates at the time.

     As disclosed in January  2008,  we reached an agreement in principle  for a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% interest in Shurgard  Europe in a private
transaction  at a price  generally  consistent  with  the  previously  disclosed
proceeds  Public  Storage  expected to receive  for its equity  interest in last
year's terminated European share offering.  No binding agreement has been signed
with the prospective investor and there is no assurance that a binding agreement
will be signed or that the transaction will be completed. We estimate completion
of the  transaction  at the end of the first  quarter of 2008 assuming a binding
agreement is signed and the conditions related to the transaction are satisfied.

     DEBT SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:  At December 31, 2007, we have total outstanding
debt of  approximately  $1.1 billion.  We do not believe we have any significant
refinancing risks with respect to our debt.

     In  connection  with the Shurgard  Merger,  we assumed  approximately  $2.0
billion of debt from  Shurgard  and its  affiliates.  As of December  31,  2007,
approximately $945.2 million of such debt remains outstanding.

     In late December 2006, we entered into a short-term  unsecured  bridge loan
with a  commercial  bank  for  borrowings  up to $300  million  and  immediately
borrowed the entire amount, increasing our cash balances to $555.6 million as of
December 31, 2006. A substantial portion of this cash was utilized on January 2,
2007,  to retire  approximately  $429 million of debt assumed from Shurgard that
was secured by substantially all of our wholly-owned  facilities in Europe.  The
bridge loan was subsequently  repaid and terminated on January 10, 2007 with the
proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities.

                                       67

<PAGE>

     Our portfolio of real estate facilities remains substantially unencumbered.
At December 31, 2007,  we have  domestic  mortgage  debt  outstanding  of $236.9
million,  which encumbers 88 self-storage  facilities with an aggregate net book
value of approximately  $601.2 million.  In Europe, our joint ventures (in which
we have a 20%  ownership  interest)  had  mortgage  debt at  December  31,  2007
totaling  $376.7  million,  which  encumbers 68 facilities with an aggregate net
book value of approximately $538.9 million at December 31, 2007.

     We  anticipate  that our retained  operating  cash flow will continue to be
sufficient to enable us to make scheduled principal payments.  See Notes 7 and 8
to our consolidated financial statements for approximate principal maturities of
such borrowings.  It is our current  intention to fully amortize our outstanding
debt  as  opposed  to  refinance   debt   maturities   with   additional   debt.
Alternatively,  we may prepay debt and finance such  prepayments  with  retained
operating cash flow or proceeds from the issuance of preferred securities.

     Approximately  $189.1 million in debt owed by First Shurgard was originally
scheduled to mature in May 2008.  However,  in February 2008, under the terms of
the related credit agreement we have requested a one-year  extension of the loan
until May 2009.  Assuming  we have met our loan  covenants,  which we believe we
have met,  the lender is  required  to grant our  request.  Notwithstanding  our
expectation of receiving the requested one-year  extension,  if the extension is
not granted,  we and our joint venture  partner are required to  contribute  our
pro-rata  share of funds  necessary to repay the debt. We believe that our joint
venture partner has the intention and ability to contribute  their potential 80%
share towards repayment of this debt if it is necessary.

     Concurrent   with  the  completion  of  the  proposed   transaction  for  a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, we
will seek to obtain a waiver  from the  lenders  of the Second  Shurgard  credit
facility for the change in control  acceleration  clause contained in the credit
facility.  See Note 19 to our December 31, 2007 financial statements for further
information regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT OF FACILITIES: During 2008, we will continue to
seek to acquire additional self-storage facilities from third parties;  however,
it is  difficult  to  estimate  the amount of third party  acquisitions  we will
undertake.

     At December 31, 2007,  we have a  development  "pipeline" of 29 projects in
the U.S. and 14 projects in Europe,  consisting of newly developed  self-storage
facilities,  conversion  of space at  facilities  that was  previously  used for
containerized  storage and expansions to existing  self-storage  facilities.  At
December 31, 2007,  we have  acquired the land for all of the U.S.  projects and
seven of the projects in Europe.

     The  development  and  fill-up of these  storage  facilities  is subject to
significant  contingencies such as obtaining appropriate governmental approvals.
We estimate that the amount remaining to be spent to complete  development to be
approximately  $190.7 million and will be incurred over the next 24 months.  The
following table sets forth certain  information  with respect to our development
pipeline.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_18_LINES]

</TABLE>


     The  development  and  fill-up of these  storage  facilities  is subject to
significant  contingencies such as obtaining appropriate governmental approvals.
We estimate that the amount  remaining to be spent to complete  development will
be incurred over the next 24 months.  Substantially  all of the future costs for
the  seven  European  projects  that are in  construction  will be funded by the
Shurgard  European Joint  Ventures,  in which we have a 20% interest,  and which
have a substantial  degree of funding by debt.  The future costs with respect to
all other development projects will be funded by us.

                                       68


<PAGE>

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS

     Our  significant  contractual  obligations  at December  31, 2007 and their
impact on our cash flows and liquidity are summarized below for the years ending
December 31 (amounts in thousands):
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED_16_LINES]

</TABLE>


(1)  Amounts  include  interest  payments  on our notes  payable  based on their
     contractual terms. See Note 8 to our consolidated  financial statements for
     additional  information on our notes payable. Debt to Joint Venture Partner
     is not  reflected  since we have not  exercised  our option to acquire  our
     partner's  interest.  Approximately  $189.1  million  in debt owed by First
     Shurgard  was  originally  scheduled  to mature in May  2008.  However,  in
     February  2008,  under the terms of the related  credit  agreement  we have
     requested a one-year extension of the loan until May 2009. Assuming we have
     met our loan  covenants,  which we  believe  we have  met,  the  lender  is
     required to grant our request.


(2)  This  line item  reflects  amounts  due on five  European  properties  with
     commitments extending to April 2052 that we assumed in the Shurgard Merger.


(3)  We lease trucks,  land,  equipment and office space under various operating
     leases. Certain leases are cancelable with substantial penalties.

(4)  Includes   obligations  for  facilities  currently  under  construction  at
     December 31, 2007 as described above under  "Acquisition and Development of
     Facilities."

     In  January  2004,  we entered  into a joint  venture  partnership  with an
institutional  investor  for the  purpose of  acquiring  up to  $125,000,000  of
existing   self-storage   properties   in  the  U.S.  from  third  parties  (the
"Acquisition Joint Venture").  As described more fully in Note 8 to our December
31, 2007 consolidated  financial statements,  our partner's equity contributions
with respect to certain  transactions  are  classified as debt under the caption
"Debt to Joint Venture Partner" in our condensed consolidated balance sheets. At
December 31, 2007,  our Debt to Joint  Venture  Partner was  $38,081,000.  For a
six-month  period  beginning  54 months  after  formation,  we have the right to
acquire our partner's interest based upon the market value of the properties. If
we do not exercise our option, our partner can elect to purchase our interest in
the  properties  during a six-month  period  commencing  upon  expiration of our
six-month  option  period.  If our  partner  fails to exercise  its option,  the
Acquisition   Joint  Venture  will  be  liquidated  and  the  proceeds  will  be
distributed to the partners  according to the joint venture  agreement.  We have
not included our Debt to Joint Venture  Partner as a  contractual  obligation in
the  table  above,  since we only  have the  right,  rather  than a  contractual
obligation, to acquire our partner's interest.

     Approximately  $189.1 million in debt owed by First Shurgard was originally
scheduled to mature in May 2008.  However,  in February 2008, under the terms of
the related credit agreement we have requested a one-year  extension of the loan
until May 2009.  Assuming  we have met our loan  covenants,  which we believe we
have met,  the lender is  required  to grant our  request.  Notwithstanding  our
expectation of receiving the requested one-year  extension,  if the extension is
not granted,  we and our joint venture  partner are required to  contribute  our
pro-rata  share of funds  necessary to repay the debt. We believe that our joint
venture partner has the intention and ability to contribute  their potential 80%
share towards repayment of this debt if it is necessary.

     Concurrent   with  the  completion  of  the  proposed   transaction  for  a
prospective  investor to acquire a 51% ownership interest in Shurgard Europe, we
will seek to obtain a waiver  from the  lenders  of the Second  Shurgard  credit
facility for the change in control  acceleration  clause contained in the credit
facility.  See Note 19 to our December 31, 2007 financial statements for further
information regarding the proposed transaction involving Shurgard Europe.

     OFF-BALANCE  SHEET  ARRANGEMENTS:  At December  31, 2007 we had no material
off-balance sheet arrangements as defined under Regulation S-K 303(a)(4) and the
instructions thereto.

                                       69

<PAGE>


     SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM: Our Board has authorized the repurchase from time
to time of up to  25,000,000  of our  common  shares  on the open  market  or in
privately  negotiated  transactions.  During 2004, we repurchased 445,700 shares
for approximately  $20.3 million.  During 2005, we repurchased 84,000 shares for
approximately  $5.0  million.  During 2006 and 2007, we did not  repurchase  any
shares. During 2008 (through February 28, 2008), we repurchased 1,520,196 shares
for approximately  $111.9 million.  From the inception of the repurchase program
through  February 28, 2008, we have  repurchased  a total of  23,721,916  common
shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $679.1 million.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK