PART II  

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

2009 Financial Results. For the year-ended December 31, 2009, Duke Energy Corporation (Duke Energy) reported net income attributable to Duke Energy of $1,075 million and basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $0.83, as compared to net income attributable to Duke Energy of $1,362 million and basic and diluted EPS of $1.08 and $1.07, respectively, for the year-ended December 31, 2008. Income from continuing operations was $1,073 million for 2009 as compared to $1,275 million for 2008. Total reportable segment EBIT (defined below in “Segment Results” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) decreased to $2,713 million in 2009 from $3,073 million in 2008.  

See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as well as a detailed discussion of EBIT results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.  

2009 Areas of Focus and Accomplishments. In 2009, management was focused on managing through the economic recession, investing in modernization of Duke Energy’s regulated infrastructure and dealing with increased competition in Ohio.  

Managing Through the Economic Recession and Changing Competitive Landscapes. In U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, Duke Energy’s largest business segment, weather-normalized electric volumes were down approximately 4% when compared to 2008. This was driven primarily by a decrease in industrial sales volumes, which were down approximately 14% compared to 2008. Although industrial sales volumes were down year over year, industrial volumes began to show signs of stabilization late in 2009. On a weather-normalized basis, residential sales volumes were slightly positive, while commercial sales volumes were slightly negative. Looking forward to 2010, management expects the load forecast to be relatively flat compared to 2009.  

In 2009, Commercial Power’s operations were impacted by the competitive markets in Ohio, which were triggered by low commodity prices that put downward pressure on power prices. The available capacity and lower prices provided opportunities for native load customers in Ohio to switch generation suppliers. Competitive power suppliers began supplying power to current Commercial Power native load customers in Ohio and Commercial Power experienced an increase in customer switching beginning in the second quarter of 2009. As of December 31, 2009, customer switching levels approximated 40% of Commercial Power’s native load. However, through Duke Energy Retail Sales (DERS), Commercial Power acquired approximately 60% of the switched load by offering customers a discount to the Electric Security Plan (ESP) price. When factoring in the DERS activity, Commercial Power experienced net customer switching of about 15%, although those native load customers acquired by DERS were at lower margins than customers served under the ESP. Additionally, DERS has been able to acquire new customers outside Commercial Power’s native load territory. As a result of lower forecasted energy prices, lower demand for electricity due to the economy and competitive pressures in Ohio, and other valuation factors, a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $371 million was recorded by Commercial Power in the third quarter of 2009.  

In light of the above economic factors that impacted Duke Energy’s business in 2009, management was focused on offsetting those economic pressures by successfully managing costs and achieving excellent operational performance. Duke Energy achieved significant operations and maintenance cost mitigation goals across its business segments and also reduced planned capital expenditures by approximately $200 million, which highlights Duke Energy’s ability to take advantage of the flexibility within its capital spending plan. Additionally, Duke Energy’s generation fleet operated at some of the highest levels in Duke Energy’s history. These combined efforts allowed Duke Energy to largely mitigate the negative impact of the economy on its results of operations in 2009.  

Key Regulatory Accomplishments. During 2009, Duke Energy completed the following regulatory initiatives:  

   •    Obtained favorable rate case outcomes in North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio and Kentucky which will increase revenues by nearly $460 million upon full implementation.  

   •    Updated/enabled construction work-in-progress (CWIP) recovery for Duke Energy Carolinas’ Cliffside Unit 6 and the Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station.  

   •    Received approval for cost recovery mechanisms for save-a-watt programs in North Carolina, South Carolina and Ohio. Approval in Indiana is anticipated in February 2010.  

   •    Began deployment of SmartGrid in Ohio, along with the initiation of a rate rider cost recovery mechanism, which is awaiting approval and a ruling is expected in the first quarter of 2010. Additionally, Duke Energy was awarded a stimulus grant for approximately $200 million to be used for reimbursement of costs related to SmartGrid.  

   •    Received approvals of wind, solar and other renewable energy projects, which will enable innovative renewable energy initiatives and help Duke Energy meet specific renewable energy standards over time.  

Overall, the regulatory and legislative accomplishments during 2009 have positioned Duke Energy well for 2010 and beyond.  

Capital Expenditures and Fleet and Grid Modernization. Duke Energy’s strategy for meeting customer demand, while building a sustainable business that allows its customers and its shareholders to prosper in a carbon-constrained environment, includes significant commitments to renewable energy, customer energy efficiency, advanced nuclear power, advanced clean-coal and high-efficiency natural gas electric generating plants, and retirement of older less efficient coal-fired power plants. Due to the likelihood of upcoming environmental regulations, including carbon legislation, air pollutant regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and coal regulation, Duke Energy has been focused on modernizing its fleet in preparation for a low carbon future. During 2009, Duke Energy has continued the construction of Cliffside Unit 6 in North Carolina and the Edwardsport IGCC plant in Indiana and these construction projects are approximately 55% complete and 50% complete, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Both are scheduled to be placed in service during 2012. Once in service, Duke Energy will begin retiring older, less efficient coal and gas-fired units. Additionally, Duke Energy Carolinas has begun construction on a 620 megawatt (MW) combined cycle natural gas-fired generating facility at each of its existing Buck and Dan River Steam Stations. These facilities are scheduled to be placed in service in 2011 and 2012, respectively. In conjunction with these and other capital projects, management is continuing its focus on reducing regulatory lag, which refers to the period of time between making an investment and earning a return and recovering that investment. In 2007, the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) approved the timely recovery of initial construction cost estimates associated with the Edwardsport IGCC plant. The 2009 rate case settlements in North Carolina and South Carolina included stipulations allowing for the recovery in base rates of financing costs related to Cliffside Unit 6, although the recovery is delayed in North Carolina for a one year period.  

35  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy Carolinas is also continuing to seek all necessary regulatory approvals for the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station, including the December 2007 filings of a Combined Construction and Operating License (COL) application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and requests to incur up to $230 million in development costs through 2009, which were approved in 2008. Although these actions are necessary steps as management continues to pursue the option of building a new nuclear plant, submitting these applications does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build a nuclear unit.  

In 2009, Duke Energy made significant strides in adding to its existing renewable energy portfolio. One way Duke Energy is reducing its environmental footprint while meeting demand for reliable, clean energy is by investing in zero carbon wind power. During 2009, Commercial Power, through Duke Energy Generation Services (DEGS), brought approximately 364 MW of wind generation online through a combination of completed construction and acquisition. At December 31, 2009, DEGS had approximately 735 MW of wind generation in commercial operation. The wind assets in service have long-term power purchase agreements to sell the output to an end customer. Additionally, DEGS became an owner in a biomass development joint venture and, in early 2010, announced it would acquire a 16 MW solar development project in San Antonio, Texas.  

Management is also making progress on increasing the role energy efficiency will have in meeting customers’ growing energy needs. Energy efficiency is considered a “fifth fuel” in the portfolio available to meet customers’ growing needs for electricity, along with coal, nuclear, natural gas and renewable energy. During 2009, Duke Energy’s save-a-watt models were approved in North Carolina, South Carolina and Ohio and Duke Energy is awaiting a decision on the proposed save-a-watt model in Indiana, which is expected in the first quarter of 2010. The save-a-watt proposal in Kentucky was withdrawn and will be addressed in Duke Energy Kentucky’s next general rate case.  

Duke Energy Objectives – 2010 and beyond. Duke Energy will continue to focus on operational excellence, shaping federal and state legislative and regulatory policy, continued modernization of infrastructure and investing in renewable energy, including energy efficiency. The majority of future earnings are anticipated to be contributed from U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, which consists of Duke Energy’s regulated businesses that currently own a capacity of approximately 27,000 MW of generation. The regulated generation portfolio consists of a mix of coal, nuclear, natural gas and hydroelectric generation, with the substantial majority of all of the sales of electricity coming from coal and nuclear generation facilities. The favorable rate case outcomes reached in the various jurisdictions in 2009, as discussed above, will increase U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ revenues by approximately $460 million upon full implementation.  

As a result of the downturn in the economy, Duke Energy experienced reductions in sales volumes in 2009, most notably within the industrial customer class. Management anticipates that recessionary pressures will continue in 2010, resulting in essentially flat kilowatt-hour sales in both the Carolinas and the Midwest service territories. In order to address these pressures, management is focused on containing costs in 2010 and currently expects non-recoverable (i.e., not directly recovered via a rider or other mechanism) operations and maintenance expense to be flat compared to 2009, due largely to sustainable reductions achieved during 2009, as well as certain 2010 initiatives such as a voluntary severance program and office consolidation. In addition, management will continue efforts to achieve constructive regulatory outcomes to reduce regulatory lag, including continually reviewing the need for general rate case filings in certain jurisdictions in 2010 and beyond.  

Additionally, due to the competitive markets in Ohio, customer switching will continue to impact the results of the Commercial Power business, as management currently estimates that an incremental 5% of current customer load will switch to alternative suppliers in 2010. Management is focused on mitigating lost volume and margin erosion in 2010 through DERS efforts to acquire native load customers, as well as acquiring customers outside of Commercial Power’s Ohio native load territory that are currently supplied by other electric generators.  

During the three-year period from 2010 through 2012, Duke Energy anticipates total capital expenditures of approximately $14 billion to $15 billion. Of this amount, approximately $5.7 billion is expected to be spent on committed projects, including base load power plants to meet long-term growth in customer demand and to modernize the generation fleet, ongoing environmental projects, and nuclear fuel. Approximately $6.8 billion of capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system maintenance, customer connections, and corporate expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions and customer growth. The remaining estimated capital expenditures of approximately $1.2 billion to $2.7 billion are of a discretionary nature and relate to growth opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities to meet return expectations along with assurance of constructive regulatory treatment in the regulated businesses. Discretionary capital primarily includes Commercial Power renewable and transmission projects, projects at International Energy and renewable projects at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. Capital expenditures are currently estimated to be approximately $5.2 billion in 2010. These expenditures are principally related to expansion plans, maintenance costs, environmental spending related to Clean Air Act (CAA) requirements and nuclear fuel. Duke Energy is committed to adding base load capacity at a reasonable price while modernizing the current generation facilities by replacing older, less efficient plants with cleaner, more efficient plants. Significant expansion projects include the Edwardsport IGCC plant, an 825 MW coal unit at Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Cliffside facility and new gas-fired generation units at Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Dan River and Buck Steam Stations, as well as other additions due to system growth. Additionally, Duke Energy is evaluating the potential construction of the William States Lee III nuclear power plant in Cherokee County, South Carolina.  

Duke Energy anticipates capital expenditures at Commercial Power will primarily relate to growth opportunities, such as renewable energy generation projects and environmental control equipment, as well as maintenance on existing plants. Capital expenditures at International Energy, which will be funded with cash held or raised by International Energy, will primarily be for strategic growth opportunities, as well as maintenance on existing plants.  

With the exception of equity issuances to fund the dividend reinvestment plan and other internal plans, Duke Energy does not currently anticipate the issuance of any other common equity in the foreseeable future. Duke Energy expects to have access to liquidity in the capital markets at reasonable rates and terms in 2010. Additionally, Duke Energy has access to unsecured revolving credit facilities, which are not restricted upon general market conditions, with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $3.14 billion. At December 31, 2009, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of approximately $1.9 billion under this facility. For further information related to management’s assessment of liquidity and capital resources, including known trends and uncertainties, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” below.  

 As the majority of Duke Energy’s anticipated future capital expenditures are related to its regulated operations, a risk to Duke Energy is the ability to recover costs related to such expansion in a timely manner. Energy legislation passed in North Carolina and South Carolina in 2007 provides, among other things, mechanisms for Duke Energy to recover financing costs for new nuclear or coal base load generation during the construction phase. In Indiana, Duke Energy has received approval to recover its development costs for the new IGCC plant at the Edwardsport Generating Station. Duke Energy has received approval for nearly $260 million of future federal tax credits related to costs to be incurred for the modernization of Cliffside Unit 6, as well as the IGCC plant in Indiana. In addition, Duke Energy has received general assurances from the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) that the North Carolina allocable portion of development costs associated with the William States Lee III nuclear station will be recoverable through a future rate case proceeding as long as the costs are deemed prudent and reasonable. Duke Energy does not anticipate beginning construction of the proposed nuclear power plant without adequate assurance of cost recovery from the state legislators or regulators.  

36  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

In summary, Duke Energy is coordinating its future capital expenditure requirements with regulatory initiatives in order to ensure adequate and timely cost recovery while continuing to provide low cost energy to its customers.  

Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s Business. Duke Energy’s business model provides diversification between stable regulated businesses like U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations, and the traditionally higher-growth businesses like the unregulated portion of Commercial Power’s operations and International Energy. As was the case throughout much of 2009, all of Duke Energy’s businesses can be negatively affected by sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy, including low market prices of commodities, all of which are beyond Duke Energy’s control, and could impair Duke Energy’s ability to meet its goals for 2010 and beyond.  

As Duke Energy experienced in 2009, declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns reduce overall electricity sales and have the potential to lessen Duke Energy’s cash flows, especially as industrial customers reduce production and, thus, consumption of electricity. A weakening economy could also impact Duke Energy’s customer’s ability to pay, causing increased delinquencies, slowing collections and lead to higher than normal levels of accounts receivables, bad debts and financing requirements. A portion of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ business risk is mitigated by its regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of fuel costs under fuel adjustment clauses. The ESP in Ohio also helps mitigate a portion of the risk associated with certain portions of Commercial Power’s generation operations by providing mechanisms for recovery of certain costs associated with, among other things, fuel and purchased power for native-load customers.  

If negative market conditions should persist over time and estimated cash flows over the lives of Duke Energy’s individual assets, including goodwill, do not exceed the carrying value of those individual assets, asset impairments may occur in the future under existing accounting rules and diminish results of operations. A change in management’s intent about the use of individual assets (held for use versus held for sale) could also result in impairments or losses.  

Duke Energy’s 2010 goals can also be substantially at risk due to the regulation of its businesses. Duke Energy’s businesses in the United States (U.S.) are subject to regulation on the federal and state level. Regulations, applicable to the electric power industry, have a significant impact on the nature of the businesses and the manner in which they operate. New legislation and changes to regulations are ongoing, including anticipated carbon legislation, and Duke Energy cannot predict the future course of changes in the regulatory or political environment or the ultimate effect that any such future changes will have on its business.  

Duke Energy’s earnings are impacted by fluctuations in commodity prices. Exposure to commodity prices generates higher earnings volatility in the unregulated businesses as there are timing differences as to when such costs are recovered in rates. To mitigate these risks, Duke Energy enters into derivative instruments to effectively hedge some, but not all, known exposures.  

Additionally, Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. Changes in these factors are difficult to predict and may impact Duke Energy’s future results.  

Duke Energy also relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not met by cash flow from operations. An inability to access capital at competitive rates or at all could adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to implement its strategy. Market disruptions or a downgrade of Duke Energy’s credit rating may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access one or more sources of liquidity. Additionally, there are no assurances that commitments made by lenders under Duke Energy’s credit facilities will be available if needed as a source of funding due to ongoing uncertainties in the financial services industry.  

For further information related to management’s assessment of Duke Energy’s risk factors, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Consolidated Operating Revenues  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. Consolidated operating revenues for 2009 decreased approximately $476 million compared to 2008. This change was primarily driven by the following:  

   •    An approximate $726 million decrease at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $27 million decrease at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    An approximate $288 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. Consolidated operating revenues for 2008 increased approximately $487 million compared to 2007. This change was primarily driven by the following:  

   •    An approximate $419 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $125 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    An approximate $55 million decrease at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

Consolidated Operating Expenses  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. Consolidated operating expenses for 2009 decreased approximately $247 million compared to 2008. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    An approximate $626 million decrease at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas below for further information;  

   •    An approximate $65 million decrease at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $40 million decrease at Other. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Other below for further information.  

37  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    An approximate $489 million increase at Commercial Power, which includes approximately $413 million of impairment charges in 2009 primarily related to a goodwill impairment charge associated with the non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. Consolidated operating expenses for 2008 increased approximately $543 million compared to 2007. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    An approximate $401 million increase at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas below for further information;  

   •    An approximate $123 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information; and  

   •    An approximate $27 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information.  

Consolidated Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net  

Consolidated gains (losses) on sales of other assets and other, net was a gain of approximately $36 million and $69 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, and a loss of approximately $5 million for 2007. The gains and losses for all years relate primarily to sales of emission allowances by U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power.  

Consolidated Operating Income  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. For 2009, consolidated operating income decreased approximately $262 million compared to 2008. Drivers to operating income are discussed above.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. For 2008, consolidated operating income increased approximately $18 million compared to 2007. Drivers to operating income are discussed above.  

Other drivers to operating income are discussed above. For more detailed discussions, see the segment discussions that follow.  

Consolidated Other Income and Expenses  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. For 2009, consolidated other income and expenses increased approximately $212 million compared to 2008. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in equity earnings of approximately $172 million due mostly to impairment charges recorded by Crescent JV (Crescent) in 2008, of which Duke Energy’s proportionate share was approximately $238 million, partially offset by decreased equity earnings from International Energy of approximately $55 million primarily related to lower contributions from its investment in National Methanol Company (NMC) and losses from its investment in Attiki Gas Supply S.A. (Attiki). Also, the mark-to-market and investment income on investments that support benefit obligations and within the captive insurance portfolio increased approximately $45 million as a result of gains in 2009 compared to losses in 2008. Additionally, foreign exchange impacts, primarily related to the remeasurement of certain U.S. dollar denominated cash and debt balances at International Energy, resulted in gains in 2009 compared to losses in 2008 due to favorable foreign exchange rates, resulting in an increase of approximately $43 million in 2009 compared to 2008. Partially offsetting these increases was decreased interest income of approximately $53 million due primarily to lower average cash and short-term investment balances, an approximate $26 million charge in 2009 related to certain performance guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent and an approximate $18 million impairment charge in 2009 to write down the carrying value of International Energy’s investment in Attiki to its fair value.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. For 2008, consolidated other income and expenses decreased approximately $307 million compared to 2007. This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in equity earnings of approximately $259 million due primarily to impairment charges recorded by Crescent, of which Duke Energy’s proportionate share was approximately $238 million, partially offset by increased equity earnings from International Energy of approximately $25 million primarily related to its investment in NMC primarily as a result of higher margins, an approximate $62 million decrease in interest income primarily due to favorable income tax settlements in 2007 and lower earnings on invested cash and short-term investment balances during 2008 as compared to 2007, an approximate $54 million decrease due to unfavorable investment returns and an approximate $34 million decrease associated with foreign currency losses due primarily to losses in 2008 associated with the remeasurement of certain U.S. dollar denominated cash and debt balances at International Energy, partially offset by an approximate $80 million increase in the equity component of allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) as a result of increased capital spending and the absence of convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million recognized in 2007 related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy Corp. (Spectra Energy).  

Consolidated Interest Expense  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. Consolidated interest expense increased approximately $10 million in 2009 as compared to 2008. This increase is primarily attributable to higher debt balances, partially offset by lower average interest rates on floating rate debt and commercial paper balances.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. Consolidated interest expense increased approximately $56 million in 2008 as compared to 2007. This increase is primarily attributable to higher debt balances, partially offset by a higher debt component of AFUDC and capitalized interest due to increased capital spending.  

Consolidated Income Tax Expense from Continuing Operations  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008. For 2009, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations increased approximately $142 million compared to 2008. Although pre-tax income was lower in 2009 compared to 2008, the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009 was approximately 41% compared to 33% for the year ended December 31, 2008 due primarily to an approximate $371 million non-deductible goodwill impairment charge in 2009.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007. For 2008, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations decreased approximately $96 million compared to 2007. This decrease primarily resulted from lower pre-tax income in 2008 compared to 2007. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased to approximately 33% compared to 32% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate during 2008 is primarily attributable to adjustments related to prior year tax returns, an increase in foreign taxes, a decrease in the manufacturing deduction and a deferred state tax benefit recorded in 2007 partially offset by higher AFUDC equity and a tax benefit recorded for certain foreign restructurings.  

38  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Consolidated Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, net of tax  

Consolidated income (loss) from discontinued operations was income of approximately $12 million and $16 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively, and a loss of $22 million for 2007. The 2008 amount is primarily comprised of Commercial Power’s sale of its 480 MW natural gas-fired peaking generating station located near Brownsville, Tennessee to Tennessee Valley Authority, which resulted in an approximate $15 million after-tax gain.  

The 2007 amount is primarily comprised of an after-tax loss of approximately $18 million associated with former Duke Energy North America (DENA) contract settlements, an after-tax loss of approximately $8 million related to Cinergy Corp. (Cinergy) commercial marketing and trading operations and after-tax earnings of approximately $23 million related to Commercial Power’s synfuel operations.  

Extraordinary Item, net of tax  

The reapplication of regulatory accounting treatment to certain of Commercial Power’s operations on December 17, 2008 resulted in an approximate $67 million after-tax (approximately $103 million pre-tax) extraordinary gain related to total mark-to-market losses previously recorded in earnings associated with open forward native load economic hedge contracts for fuel, purchased power and emission allowances, which the ESP allows to be recovered through a fuel and purchased power rider.  

Segment Results  

Management evaluates segment performance based on earnings before interest and taxes from continuing operations (excluding certain allocated corporate governance costs), after deducting amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests related to those profits (EBIT). On a segment basis, EBIT excludes discontinued operations, represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests related to those profits. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed centrally by Duke Energy, so interest and dividend income on those balances, as well as gains and losses on remeasurement of foreign currency denominated balances, are excluded from the segments’ EBIT. Management considers segment EBIT to be a good indicator of each segment’s operating performance from its continuing operations, as it represents the results of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.  

See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for a discussion of Duke Energy’s segment structure.  

Duke Energy’s segment EBIT may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure of another company because other entities may not calculate EBIT in the same manner. Segment EBIT is summarized in the following table, and detailed discussions follow.  

EBIT by Business Segment   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Other within Interest income and other includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses and additional noncontrolling interest amounts not allocated to reportable segment and Other EBIT.  

Noncontrolling interest amounts presented below includes only expenses and benefits related to EBIT of Duke Energy’s joint ventures. It does not include the noncontrolling interest component related to interest and taxes of the joint ventures.  

Segment EBIT, as discussed below, includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

39  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas includes the regulated operations of Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana), and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky) and certain regulated operations of Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Gigawatt-hours (GWh).  

 (b) Duke Energy Ohio (Ohio transmission and distribution only), Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest within this U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment discussion.  

 (c) Megawatt (MW).  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Midwest.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Midwest’s retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Midwest’s sales, including retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

40  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $536 million decrease in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by decreased demand from retail and near-term wholesale customers and lower natural gas fuel rates primarily in Ohio and Kentucky, partially offset by higher fuel rates for electric retail customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to both retail and wholesale customers;  

   •    A $117 million decrease due to lower weather normalized sales volumes to retail customers largely reflecting the overall declining economic conditions in 2009, which primarily impacted the industrial sector;  

   •    A $63 million decrease in GWh and thousand cubic feet (Mcf) sales to retail customers due to overall milder weather conditions in 2009 compared to 2008. Weather statistics for heating degree days in 2009 were unfavorable in the Midwest but favorable in the Carolinas compared to 2008. Weather statistics for cooling degree days in 2009 were unfavorable in both the Midwest and Carolinas compared to 2008; and  

   •    A $30 million net decrease in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to decreased sales volumes and lower prices on near-term sales as a result of weak market conditions, partially offset by higher prices and increased sales volumes to customers served under certain long-term contracts.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $31 million net increase in retail rates and rate riders primarily due to increases in recoveries of Duke Energy Indiana’s environmental compliance costs and the IGCC rider, partially offset by the expiration of the one-time increment rider related to merger savings that was included in North Carolina retail rates in 2008.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $541 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to a lower volume of coal used in electric generation, lower prices and volumes for natural gas purchased for resale and used in electric generation and reduced purchased power, partially offset by higher coal prices;  

   •    A $71 million decrease in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to lower scheduled outage and maintenance costs at nuclear and fossil generating stations, lower power and gas delivery maintenance and decreased capacity costs due to the expiration of certain drought mitigation contracts in 2008, partially offset by higher benefits costs; and  

   •    A $36 million decrease in depreciation and amortization due primarily to lower depreciation rates in the Carolinas, partially offset by increases in depreciation due primarily to additional capital spending.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $22 million increase in property and other taxes due primarily to normal increases.  

Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The increase is primarily due to gains on the sale of nitrogen oxide (NOx) emission allowances in 2009.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase is due primarily to a higher equity component of AFUDC earned from additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects, partially offset by a favorable 2008 IURC ruling.  

EBIT. The decrease resulted primarily from lower weather adjusted sales volumes, milder weather, lower wholesale power revenues, higher benefits costs and higher property and other taxes. These negative impacts were partially offset by decreased operation and maintenance costs as a result of lower outage and maintenance costs, lower depreciation rates in the Carolinas and overall net higher rates and rate riders.  

Matters Impacting Future U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas Results  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas continues to increase the overall number of retail customers served, maintain low costs and deliver high-quality customer service in the Carolinas and Midwest; however, sales to all retail customer classes were negatively impacted by the economic downturn in 2009, particularly sales to the industrial sector. These trends are expected to continue for some period into 2010, and perhaps beyond, until the economy begins to recover. The general decline in the textile industry in the Carolinas, exacerbated by the struggling economy, is also expected to continue in 2010, fueled by the expiration of certain import limitations related to foreign textile products.  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of August 31 and performs interim impairment assessments if a triggering event occurs that indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. For further information on key assumptions that impact U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ goodwill impairment assessments, see Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment Assessments. As of the date of the 2009 annual impairment analysis, the fair value of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ reporting units exceeded their respective carrying value, thus no goodwill impairment charges were recorded. However, the fair value of the Ohio Transmission and Distribution reporting unit (Ohio T&D), which had a goodwill balance of approximately $700 million as of December 31, 2009, exceeded the carrying value of equity by less than 15%. Management is continuing to monitor the impact of recent market and economic events to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit has been impaired. Should any such triggering events or circumstances occur in 2010 that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit below its carrying value, management would perform an interim impairment assessment of the Ohio T&D goodwill and it is possible that a goodwill impairment charge could be recorded as a result of this assessment. Potential circumstances that could have a negative effect on the fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit include additional declines in load volume forecasts, changes in the weighted average cost of capital (WACC), changes in the timing and/or recovery of and on investments in SmartGrid technology, and the success of future rate case filings.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $474 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by higher fuel rates in all regions and legislative changes that allow Duke Energy Carolinas to collect additional purchased power and environmental compliance costs from retail customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to both retail and wholesale customers; and  

   •    A $92 million increase related to substantial completion in 2007 of the sharing of anticipated merger savings through rate decrement riders with regulated customers.  

41  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    A $73 million decrease in weather adjusted sales volumes to retail customers reflecting the overall declining economic conditions, which are primarily impacting the industrial sector;  

   •    A $53 million decrease in retail rates and rate riders primarily related to the new retail base rates implemented in North Carolina in the first quarter of 2008, net of increases in recoveries of Duke Energy Indiana’s environmental compliance costs from retail customers and higher gas base rates implemented in the second quarter of 2008 for Duke Energy Ohio; and  

   •    A $49 million decrease in GWh and Mcf sales to retail customers due to milder weather in 2008 compared to 2007. While weather statistics for heating degree days in 2008 were favorable compared to 2007, this favorable impact was more than offset by the impact of fewer cooling degree days in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $441 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to higher coal and natural gas prices and increased purchased power. This increase also reflects a $21 million reimbursement in first quarter 2007 of previously incurred fuel expenses resulting from a settlement between Duke Energy Carolinas and U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) resolving Duke Energy Carolinas’ used nuclear fuel litigation against the Department of Energy (DOE). The settlement between the parties was finalized on March 5, 2007;  

   •    A $67 million increase in depreciation due primarily to additional capital spending; and  

   •    A $66 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to higher scheduled outage and maintenance costs at nuclear and fossil generating plants, storm costs primarily in the Midwest related to Hurricane Ike in September 2008 net of deferral of a portion of the Ohio and Kentucky storm costs associated with Hurricane Ike, increased capacity costs due to additional contracts that were entered into in late 2007 to ensure customer electricity needs were met despite ongoing drought conditions and increased power delivery maintenance charges to increase system reliability, partially offset by lower benefit costs including short-term incentives.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $170 million decrease in regulatory amortization expenses, including approximately $187 million for the amortization of compliance costs related to North Carolina clean air legislation, which was completed in 2007. This decrease was partially offset by the write-off in 2007 of a portion of the investment in the GridSouth Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) (approximately $17 million) per a rate order from the NCUC.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase is due primarily to the equity component of AFUDC due to additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects and a favorable $25 million IURC ruling.  

EBIT. The increase resulted primarily from decreased regulatory amortization, the substantial completion of the required rate reductions due to the merger with Cinergy and increased AFUDC. These increases were partially offset by the impacts of the unfavorable economy on sales, milder weather, additional depreciation as rate base increased during 2008, higher operation and maintenance costs, overall net lower retail rates and rate riders, and the 2007 DOE settlement.  

Commercial Power  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as compared to December 31, 2008  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $98 million increase in retail electric revenues resulting from higher retail pricing principally related to implementation of the ESP in 2009 and the timing of fuel and purchased power rider collections in 2008, net of lower sales volumes driven by the economy and increased customer switching levels;  

   •    A $70 million increase in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $2 million in 2009 compared to losses of $72 million in 2008;  

   •    A $68 million increase in revenues due to higher generation volumes and increased PJM capacity revenues from the Midwest gas-fired assets in 2009 compared to 2008;  

   •    A $48 million increase in wholesale electric revenues due to higher generation volumes and hedge realization in 2009 compared to 2008 and margin earned from participation in wholesale auctions in 2009; and  

   •    A $25 million increase in wind generation revenues due to commencement of operations of wind facilities in the third quarter of 2008 and additional wind generation facilities placed in service in 2009.  

42  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $413 million impairment charge primarily related to goodwill associated with non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest;  

   •    A $55 million increase in fuel expense due to mark-to-market losses on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $58 million in 2009 compared to losses of $3 million in 2008;  

   •    A $44 million increase in depreciation and administrative expenses associated with wind projects placed in service in the third quarter of 2008 and throughout 2009, as well as the continued development of the renewable business in 2009;  

   •    A $36 million increase in operating expenses resulting from depreciation expense on environmental projects placed in service in the second half of 2008 and higher plant maintenance expenses resulting from increased plant outages in 2009 compared to 2008;  

   •    A $29 million increase in retail and wholesale fuel expense due to higher purchased power expenses and higher long-term contract prices and lower realized gains on fuel hedges in 2009 compared to 2008; and  

   •    A $10 million increase in fuel and operating expenses for the Midwest gas-fired assets primarily due to higher generation volumes in 2009 compared to 2008, partially offset by bad debt reserves recorded in 2008 associated with the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    An $82 million impairment of emission allowances due to the invalidation of the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) in July 2008.  

Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease in 2009 compared to 2008 is attributable to lower gains on sales of emission allowances.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase in 2009 compared to 2008 is attributable to higher equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 primarily as a result of a full year of equity earnings from investments held by Catamount Energy Corporation (Catamount). Catamount, which is a leading wind power company, was acquired in September 2008. Partially offsetting this increase was a 2009 impairment charge to the carrying value of an equity method investment.  

EBIT. The decrease is primarily attributable to higher impairment charges in 2009 primarily due to a goodwill impairment charge, partially offset by a 2008 impairment charge related to emission allowance, increased plant maintenance expenses and fewer gains on sales of emission allowances. These factors were partially offset by higher retail revenue pricing as a result of implementation of the ESP, higher margins from the Midwest gas-fired assets due to increased generation volumes and PJM capacity revenues.  

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Power Results  

Commercial Power’s current strategy is focused on maintaining its competitive position in Ohio, maximizing the returns and cash flows from its current portfolio, as well as growing its non-regulated renewable energy portfolio. Results for Commercial Power are sensitive to changes in power supply, power demand, fuel and power prices and weather, as well as dependent upon completion of energy asset construction projects and tax credits on renewable energy production.  

Recently, low commodity prices have put downward pressure on power prices. The available capacity and lower prices have provided opportunities for customers in Ohio to switch generation suppliers. Competitive power suppliers have begun supplying power to current Commercial Power customers in Ohio and Commercial Power has experienced an increase in customer switching in the second half of 2009. Customer switching is anticipated to continue in 2010 and could have a significant impact on Commercial Power’s results. Additionally, these evolving market conditions may potentially impact Commercial Power’s ability to continue to apply regulatory accounting treatment to certain portions of its Commercial Power business segment. As of December 31, 2009, Commercial Power had regulatory assets of approximately $163 million related to under-collections under its ESP and mark-to-market losses on certain economic hedges.  

As discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill and Intangible Assets,” Commercial Power recorded an impairment charge in the third quarter of 2009 of approximately $371 million within its non-regulated generation reporting unit to write down the goodwill to its implied fair value. As a result of this impairment charge, the carrying value of goodwill associated with the non-regulated generation reporting unit of approximately $520 million is equivalent to its implied fair value. This impairment charge was based on a number of factors, including a decline in load forecast, depressed market power prices, customer switching and carbon emission legislation and/or EPA regulation developments. Should the assumptions used related to these factors change in the future as a result of then market conditions, as well as any acceleration in the timing of carbon emission legislation/EPA regulation developments, it is possible that further goodwill impairment charges could be recorded. For further information on key assumptions that impact Commercial Power’s goodwill impairment assessments, see Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment Assessments.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as compared to December 31, 2007  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $21 million decrease in wholesale electric revenues due to lower hedge realization and lower generation volumes primarily resulting from increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007;  

   •    A $20 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $72 million in 2008 compared to losses of $52 million in 2007; and  

   •    A $17 million decrease in revenues due to lower generation volumes from the Midwest gas-fired assets resulting from milder weather net of increased PJM capacity revenues in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    An $82 million impairment of emission allowances due to the invalidation of the CAIR in July 2008;  

   •    A $68 million increase in fuel expense due to mark-to-market losses on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $3 million in 2008 compared to gains of $65 million in 2007; and  

   •    A $14 million increase in plant maintenance expenses resulting from increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    A $63 million decrease in emission allowance expenses due to lower cost basis emission allowances consumed and lower overall emission allowance consumption due to installation of flue gas desulfurization equipment and lower generation volumes due to increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007;  

   •    A $46 million decrease in net fuel and purchased power expense for retail load due to realized gains on fuel hedges partially offset by higher purchased power as a result of increased plant outages in 2008 compared to 2007; and  

43  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

   •    A $24 million decrease in fuel and operating expenses for the Midwest gas-fired assets primarily due to lower generation volumes and lower amortization of locked-in hedge losses in 2008 compared to 2007, net of an approximate $15 million bad debt reserve related to the Lehman Bros. bankruptcy and higher plant maintenance expenses.  

Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The increase in 2008 as compared to 2007 is attributable to gains on sales of emission allowances in 2008 compared to losses on sales of emission allowances in 2007. Gains in 2008 were a result of sales of zero cost basis emission allowances, while losses in 2007 were as a result of sales of emission allowances acquired in connection with Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy in 2006 which were written up to fair value as part of purchase accounting.  

EBIT. The decrease is primarily attributable to higher mark-to-market losses on economic hedges due to decreasing commodity prices, the impairment of emission allowances, lower retail and wholesale revenues resulting from lower volumes due to the weakening economy and plant outages. Partially offsetting these decreases were gains on sales of zero cost basis emission allowances, lower emission allowance expense due to lower cost basis emission allowances consumed and lower consumption due to installation of flue gas desulfurization equipment and lower purchase accounting expense primarily due to the Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP) valuation.  

International Energy  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $41 million decrease in Peru due to unfavorable average hydrocarbon and spot prices; and  

   •    A $16 million decrease in Central America due to lower average sales prices and lower dispatch in El Salvador, partially offset by favorable hydrology in Guatemala as a result of drier weather.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $29 million increase in Ecuador due to higher dispatch as a result of drier weather.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    An $81 million decrease in Peru due to lower purchased power costs, thermal generation and hydrocarbon royalty costs; and  

   •    A $55 million decrease in Central America due to lower fuel costs.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $31 million increase in Ecuador due to higher fuel consumption and the reversal of a bad debt allowance as a result of collection of an arbitration award in the prior year;  

   •    A $24 million increase in Brazil due to transmission cost adjustments, partially offset by favorable exchange rates; and  

   •    An $8 million increase in general and administrative expenses due to reorganization costs and higher legal costs.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease was driven primarily by a $41 million decrease in equity earnings at NMC as a result of lower pricing for both methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE), partially offset by lower butane costs, an approximate $18 million impairment of the investment in Attiki and approximately $14 million of decreased equity earnings at Attiki due to lower margins and the absence of prior year hedge income due to hedge contract terminations.  

EBIT. The decrease in EBIT was primarily due to lower equity earnings at NMC and Attiki, an impairment of the investment in Attiki and unfavorable exchange rates and transmission adjustments in Brazil, partially offset by favorable hydrology in Brazil and Central America and lower operating expenses in Peru.  

Matters Impacting Future International Energy Results  

International Energy’s current strategy is focused on selectively growing its Latin American power generation business while continuing to maximize the returns and cash flow from its current portfolio. EBIT results for International Energy are sensitive to changes in hydrology, power supply, power demand, transmission and fuel constraints and fuel and commodity prices. Regulatory matters can also impact EBIT results, as well as impacts from fluctuations in exchange rates, most notably the Brazilian Real.  

Certain of International Energy’s long-term sales contracts and long-term debt in Brazil contain inflation adjustment clauses. While this is favorable to revenue in the long run, as International Energy’s contract prices are adjusted, there is an unfavorable impact on interest expense resulting from revaluation of International Energy’s outstanding local currency debt.  

44  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

As noted above, International Energy is committed to selectively growing its Latin American power generation business while continuing to maximize the returns and cash flow from its current portfolio. However, International Energy periodically evaluates all of its businesses to ensure those businesses continue to align with its overall strategies. As such, International Energy is in the early stages of exploring a possible sale of certain long-lived assets in Latin America. The estimated fair value for these assets currently being evaluated for potential sale is less than carrying value. Consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), write-downs to fair value have not been recorded on these long-lived assets as the forecasted undiscounted cash flows for the assets exceed the carrying value. In 2010, it is possible that a write-down of the carrying value of these assets to fair value could occur if a sale at an amount below carrying value becomes likely.  

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $60 million increase in Brazil due to higher sales prices, higher demand and favorable exchange rates;  

   •    A $49 million increase in Guatemala and El Salvador due to favorable sales prices partially offset by lower dispatch; and  

   •    A $15 million increase in Argentina due to favorable sales prices as a result of higher demand.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $70 million increase in Guatemala and El Salvador primarily due to higher fuel prices;  

   •    A $57 million increase in Peru primarily due to higher purchased power, fuel costs, and royalty fees due to unfavorable hydrology and higher oil reference pricing; and  

   •    A $15 million increase in Argentina due to higher gas and power marketing purchases and increased fuel prices.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $24 million decrease in Ecuador due to lower fuel consumption and maintenance costs as a result of lower thermal dispatch and the reversal of a bad debt allowance as a result of collection of an arbitration award; and  

   •    A $5 million decrease in Brazil due to a transmission credit adjustment and reversal of a bad debt allowance as a result of a customer settlement, partially offset by unfavorable exchange rates.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was driven primarily by a $16 million increase in equity earnings at NMC as a result of higher pricing and volumes for both methanol and MTBE and approximately $9 million of increased equity earnings at Attiki due to a hedge termination.  

EBIT. The increase in EBIT was primarily due to higher average prices, increased demand, and favorable exchange rates in Brazil, higher MTBE and methanol margins and sales volumes at NMC; partially offset by unfavorable hydrology, higher royalty fees and the lack of the 2007 transmission congestion in Peru, and unfavorable results in Guatemala, primarily due to higher fuel prices and maintenance costs.  

Other  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2009 as Compared to December 31, 2008  

Operating Income. The increase was primarily due to favorable results at Duke Energy Trading and Marketing (DETM) and Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison) and lower corporate costs, partially offset by higher deferred compensation expense due to improved market performance.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was due primarily to impairment charges recorded by Crescent in 2008, for which Duke Energy’s proportionate share was approximately $238 million, with no comparable losses in 2009, and favorable returns on investments that support benefit obligations. Partially offsetting these favorable variances was a 2009 charge related to certain performance guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent.  

EBIT. The increase was due primarily to prior year losses at Crescent, favorable results at Bison and DETM and lower corporate costs, partially offset by a 2009 charge related to certain performance guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent.  

Matters Impacting Future Other Results  

Other’s future results could be impacted by continued volatility in the debt and equity markets and other economic conditions, which could result in the recording of other-than-temporary impairment charges for investments in debt and equity securities, including certain investments in auction rate debt securities. Duke Energy analyzes all investments in debt and equity securities to determine whether a decline in fair value should be considered other-than-temporary. Criteria used to evaluate whether an impairment is other-than-temporary  

45  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 includes, but is not limited to, the length of time over which the market value has been lower than the cost basis of the investment, the percentage decline compared to the cost of the investment and management’s intent and ability to retain its investment in the issuer for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. For investments in debt securities, the other-than-temporary analysis also involves the consideration of underlying collateral and guarantees of principal by government entities, as well as other factors relevant to determine the amount of credit loss, if any.  

In January 2010, Duke Energy announced plans to offer a voluntary severance plan to approximately 8,750 eligible employees. As this is a voluntary plan, all severance benefits offered under this plan are considered special termination benefits under GAAP. Special termination benefits are measured upon employee acceptance and recorded immediately absent a significant retention period. If a significant retention period exists, the costs of the special termination benefits are recorded ratably over the remaining service periods of the affected employees. The window for employees to request to voluntarily end their employment under this plan opened on February 3, 2010 and closed on February 24, 2010 for approximately 8,400 eligible employees. For employees affected by the consolidation of Duke Energy’s corporate functions in Charlotte, North Carolina, as discussed further below, the window will close March 31, 2010. Duke Energy currently estimates severance payments associated with this voluntary plan, based on employees’ requests to voluntarily end their employment received through February 24, 2010, of approximately $130 million. However, until management of Duke Energy approves the requests, it reserves the right to reject any request to volunteer based on business needs and/or excessive participation.  

In addition, in January 2010, Duke Energy announced that it will consolidate certain corporate office functions, resulting in transitioning over the next two years of approximately 350 positions from its offices in the Midwest to its corporate headquarters in Charlotte, North Carolina. Employees who do not relocate have the option to elect to participate in the voluntary plan discussed above, find a regional position within Duke Energy or remain with Duke Energy through a transition period, at which time a reduced severance benefit would be paid under Duke Energy’s ongoing severance plan. Management cannot currently estimate the costs, if any, of severance benefits which will be paid to its employees due to this office consolidation.  

Duke Energy believes that it is possible that the voluntary severance plan may trigger settlement accounting or curtailment accounting with respect to its pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. At this time, management is unable to determine the likelihood that settlement or curtailment accounting will be triggered.  

Additionally, Duke Energy has a 50% ownership interest in Crescent, a partnership for U.S. tax purposes. Crescent filed for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy in a U.S. Bankruptcy Court in June 2009. As of December 31, 2009, Duke Energy believes it is more likely than not that all tax benefits associated with its investment in Crescent will be realized. However, the form, timing and structure of Crescent’s future emergence from bankruptcy remain unresolved. Based on this uncertainty, as of December 31, 2009, it is reasonably possible that Duke Energy could incur a future tax liability related to its inability to fully utilize tax losses associated with its partnership interest in Crescent and the resolution of Crescent’s emergence from bankruptcy. 

Year Ended December 31, 2008 as Compared to December 31, 2007  

Operating Revenues. The reduction was driven primarily by higher premiums earned by Bison in 2007 related to the assumption of liabilities by Bison from other Duke Energy business units.  

Operating Expenses. The reduction was primarily driven by the establishment of reserves related to liabilities assumed by Bison from other Duke Energy business units in 2007 with no comparable charges in 2008, a prior year donation to the Duke Foundation, reduced benefit costs, and decreased severance costs. These favorable variances were partially offset by a prior year benefit related to contract settlement negotiations and unfavorable property loss experience at Bison.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase in net expense was primarily driven by approximately $230 million of losses at Crescent in 2008 compared to earnings of approximately $38 million in 2007 due to Duke Energy recording its proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by Crescent and lower earnings as a result of the downturn in the real estate market, unfavorable returns on investments related to executive life insurance and lower investment income at Bison, partially offset by prior year convertible debt charges of approximately $21 million related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy with no comparable charges in 2008.  

EBIT. The decrease was due to Duke Energy’s proportionate share of impairment charges recorded by Crescent and lower overall earnings at Crescent, a prior year benefit related to contract settlement negotiations, unfavorable investment returns and unfavorable property loss experience at Bison, partially offset by a prior year donation to Duke Foundation, prior year convertible debt charges, decreased severance costs and reduced benefits costs.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

The application of accounting policies and estimates is an important process that continues to evolve as Duke Energy’s operations change and accounting guidance evolves. Duke Energy has identified a number of critical accounting policies and estimates that require the use of significant estimates and judgments.  

Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other various assumptions that they believe are reasonable at the time of application. The estimates and judgments may change as time passes and more information about Duke Energy’s environment becomes available. If estimates and judgments are different than the actual amounts recorded, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to take into consideration the new information. Duke Energy discusses its critical accounting policies and estimates and other significant accounting policies with senior members of management and the audit committee, as appropriate. Duke Energy’s critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed below.  

Regulatory Accounting  

Certain of Duke Energy’s regulated operations (primarily the majority of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and certain portions of Commercial Power) meet the criteria for application of regulatory accounting treatment. As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recorded under GAAP in the U.S. for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that either are not likely to or have yet to be incurred. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in Duke Energy’s jurisdictions, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels, and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of nuclear decommissioning costs and amortization of regulatory assets. Total regulatory assets were $3,886 million as of December 31, 2009 and $4,077 million as of  

46  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 December 31, 2008. Total regulatory liabilities were $3,108 million as of December 31, 2009 and $2,678 million as of December 31, 2008. For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”  

In order to apply regulatory accounting treatment and record regulatory assets and liabilities, certain criteria must be met. In determining whether the criteria are met for its operations, management makes significant judgments, including determining whether revenue rates for services provided to customers are subject to approval by an independent, third-party regulator, whether the regulated rates are designed to recover specific costs of providing the regulated service, and a determination of whether, in view of the demand for the regulated services and the level of competition, it is reasonable to assume that rates set at levels that will recover the operations’ costs can be charged to and collected from customers. This final criterion requires consideration of anticipated changes in levels of demand or competition, direct and indirect, during the recovery period for any capitalized costs. If facts and circumstances change so that a portion of Duke Energy’s regulated operations meet all of the scope criteria when such criteria had not been previously met, regulatory accounting treatment would be reapplied to all or a separable portion of the operations. Such reapplication includes adjusting the balance sheet for amounts that meet the definition of a regulatory asset or regulatory liability.  

Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants in the Midwestern United States. Commercial Power’s generation asset fleet consists of Duke Energy Ohio’s generation in Ohio, primarily coal-fired assets, that are dedicated to serve Ohio native load customers (native load), as well as wholesale customers to the extent there is excess generation, and five Midwestern gas-fired non-regulated generation assets that are not dedicated to serve Ohio native load customers (non-native). The non-native generation operations do not qualify for regulatory accounting treatment as these operations do not meet the scope criteria. Most of the generation asset native load output in Ohio was contracted through the RSP through December 31, 2008. As discussed further in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, specifically Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 4, “Regulatory Matters”, beginning on December 17, 2008, Commercial Power began applying regulatory accounting treatment to certain portions of its native load operations due to the passing of Ohio Senate Bill 221 (SB 221) and the approval of the ESP. However, other portions of Commercial Power’s native load operations continue to not qualify for regulatory accounting treatment, as certain costs of the native load operations do not result in a rate structure designed to recover the specific costs of that portion of the operations. Despite certain portions of the Ohio native load operations not qualifying for regulatory accounting treatment, all of Commercial Power’s Ohio native load operations’ rates are subject to approval by the PUCO, and thus these operations are referred to here-in as Commercial Power’s regulated operations. Moreover, generation remains a competitive market in Ohio and native load customers continue to have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service. As customers switch, there is a risk that some or all of Commercial Power’s regulatory assets will not be recovered through the established riders. Duke Energy will continue to monitor the amount of native load customers that have switched to alternative suppliers when assessing the recoverability of its regulatory assets established for its native load generation operations. At December 31, 2009, management has concluded that the established regulatory assets of approximately $163 million are still probable of recovery even though there have been increased levels of customer switching.  

No other operations within Commercial Power, and no operations within the International Energy business segment, qualify for regulatory accounting treatment.  

The substantial majority of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’s operations qualify for regulatory accounting treatment and thus its costs of business and related revenues can result in the recording of regulatory assets and liabilities, as described above.  

Goodwill Impairment Assessments  

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, Duke Energy had goodwill balances of $4,350 million and $4,720 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009, the goodwill balances at the segment level were $3,483 million at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas, $569 million at Commercial Power, and $298 million at International Energy. The majority of Duke Energy’s goodwill relates to the acquisition of Cinergy in April 2006, whose assets are primarily included in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. Commercial Power also has approximately $70 million of goodwill that resulted from the September 2008 acquisition of Catamount, a leading wind power company located in Rutland, Vermont. As of the acquisition date, Duke Energy allocates goodwill to a reporting unit, which Duke Energy defines as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment.  

Duke Energy is required to perform an annual goodwill impairment test at the reporting unit level as of the same date each year and, accordingly, performs its annual impairment testing of goodwill for all reporting units as of August 31 each year. Duke Energy updates the test between annual tests if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. The annual analysis of the potential impairment of goodwill requires a two step process. Step one of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of reporting units with their aggregate carrying values, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, step two must be performed to determine the amount, if any, of the goodwill impairment loss. If the carrying amount is less than fair value, further testing of goodwill impairment is not performed. Duke Energy did not record any impairment on its goodwill as a result of the 2008 or 2007 impairment tests.  

Step two of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill against the carrying value of the goodwill. Under step two, determining the implied fair value of goodwill requires the valuation of a reporting unit’s identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination on the testing date. The difference between the fair value of the entire reporting unit as determined in step one and the net fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. The goodwill impairment charge, if any, would be the difference between the carrying amount of goodwill and the implied fair value of goodwill upon the completion of step two.  

For purposes of the step one analyses, determination of reporting units’ fair value was based on a combination of the income approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on estimated discounted future cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. Based on completion of step one of the 2009 annual impairment tests, management determined that the fair values of all reporting units except for Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit, for which the carrying value of goodwill was approximately $890 million as of the annual impairment testing date, were greater than their respective carrying values. Accordingly, for only Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit, management was required to perform step two of the goodwill impairment test to determine the amount of the goodwill impairment.  

Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit includes nearly 4,000 MW of coal-fired generation capacity in Ohio dedicated to serve Ohio native load customers under the ESP through December 31, 2011. These assets, as excess capacity allows, also generate revenues through sales outside the native load customer base, and such revenue is termed non-native. Additionally, this reporting unit has approximately 3,600 MW of gas-fired generation capacity in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois and Indiana. The businesses within Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit operate in an unregulated environment in Ohio. As a result, the operations within this reporting unit are subjected to competitive pressures that do not exist in any of Duke Energy’s regulated jurisdictions.  

Commercial Power’s other businesses, including the wind generation assets, are in a separate reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing purposes. No impairment exists with respect to Commercial Power’s wind generation assets.  

47  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The fair value of the non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit is impacted by a multitude of factors, including current and forecasted customer demand, current and forecasted power and commodity prices, impact of the economy on discount rates, valuation of peer companies, competition, and regulatory and legislative developments. Management’s assumptions and views of these factors continually evolves, and such views and assumptions used in determining the step one fair value of the reporting unit in 2009 changed significantly from those used in the 2008 annual impairment test. These factors had a significant impact on the risk-adjusted discount rate and other inputs used to value the non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit. These factors significantly impacted management’s valuation of the reporting unit, and consequently resulted in an approximate $371 million goodwill impairment charge in 2009.  

As noted above, for purposes of the step one analyses, determination of the reporting units’ fair values was based on a combination of the income approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on discounted future cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. Key assumptions used in the income approach analyses for the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units include, but are not limited to, the use of an appropriate discount rate, estimated future cash flows and estimated run rates of operation, maintenance, and general and administrative costs. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory stability and ability to renew contracts, as well as other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts.  

Estimated future cash flows under the income approach are based to a large extent on Duke Energy’s internal business plan, and adjusted as appropriate for Duke Energy’s views of market participant assumptions. In addition to the factors noted above for the Commercial Power non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit, Duke Energy’s internal business plan reflects management’s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third party sources, as well as projected commodity pricing data. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service and the renewal of certain contracts. Management also makes assumptions regarding the run rate of operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. Should the actual outcome of some or all of these assumptions differ significantly from the current assumptions, revisions to current cash flow assumptions could cause the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units to be significantly different in future periods.  

One of the most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the cost of equity and pre-tax cost of debt. In calculating the WACCs, Duke Energy considered implied WACC’s for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs were adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company specific risk premiums. For example, transmission and distribution reporting units generally would have a lower company specific risk premium as they do not have the higher level of risk associated with owning and operating generation assets nor do they have significant construction risk or risk associated with potential future carbon legislation or carbon regulation. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2009 for each of Duke Energy’s domestic reporting units were commensurate with the risks associated with each reporting unit and ranged from 6.0% to 9.0%. For Duke Energy’s international operations, a base discount rate of 8.5% was used, with specific adders used for each separate jurisdiction in which International Energy operates to reflect the differing risk profiles of the jurisdictions and countries. This resulted in discount rates for the August 31, 2009 goodwill impairment test for the international operations ranging from approximately 9.5% to 13.5%.  

Another significant assumption that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the long-term growth rate of the businesses for purposes of determining a terminal value at the end of the discrete forecast period. A long-term growth rate of three percent was used in the valuations of all of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units, reflecting the median long-term inflation rate and the significant capital investments forecasted for all of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units. A long-term growth rate of two percent was used in the valuation of the Commercial Power non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit given the finite lives of the unregulated generation power plants and current absence of plans to reinvest in the unregulated generation assets.  

These underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time; subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in a future impairment charge to goodwill. Management continues to remain alert for any indicators that the fair value of a reporting unit could be below book value and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate.  

As discussed above, with the exception of the Commercial Power non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit, the impairment tests as of August 31, 2009 did not indicate that the fair value of any of Duke Energy’s reporting units were less than its book value. For these reporting units, the estimated fair value of equity exceeded the carrying value of equity by over 15%, with the exception of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’s Ohio T&D reporting unit. As of December 31, 2009, the Ohio T&D reporting unit had a goodwill balance of approximately $700 million. Potential circumstances that could have a negative effect on the fair value of the Ohio T&D reporting unit include additional declines in load volume forecasts, changes in the WACC, changes in the timing and/or recovery of and on investments in SmartGrid technology, and the success of future rate case filings.  

As an overall test of the reasonableness of the estimated fair values of the reporting units, Duke Energy reconciled the combined fair value estimates of its reporting units to its market capitalization as of August 31, 2009. The reconciliation confirmed that the fair values were reasonably representative of market views when applying a reasonable control premium to the market capitalization. Additionally, Duke Energy would perform an interim impairment assessment should any events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Subsequent to August 31, 2009, management did not identify any indicators of potential impairment that required an update to the annual impairment test. The majority of Duke Energy’s business is in environments that are either fully or partially rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy’s regulated utilities operate to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. Additionally, with respect to the Commercial Power non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit, the Ohio generation assets have begun to be negatively impacted by increased competition. However, the effects of increased competition in Ohio were appropriately considered in the August 31, 2009 valuation of the reporting unit, and subsequent to August 31, 2009 management did not identify any indicators of potential impairment that required an update to the annual impairment test. However, management will continue to monitor changes in the business, as well as overall market conditions and economic factors that could require additional impairment tests.  

Revenue Recognition  

Revenues on sales of electricity and gas are recognized when either the service is provided or the product is delivered. Operating revenues include unbilled electric and gas revenues earned when service has been delivered but not billed by the end of the accounting period. Unbilled retail revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue per kilowatt-hour (kWh) or per Mcf for all customer classes to  

48  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 the number of estimated kWh or Mcfs delivered but not billed. Unbilled wholesale energy revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per megawatt-hour (MWh) to the number of estimated MWh delivered but not yet billed. Unbilled wholesale demand revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per MW to the MW volume delivered but not yet billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns and customer mix. Unbilled revenues, which are primarily recorded as Receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and exclude receivables sold to Cinergy Receivables Company, LLC (Cinergy Receivables), were approximately $460 million and $390 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana sell, on a revolving basis, nearly all of their retail accounts receivable and a portion of their wholesale accounts receivable and related collections to Cinergy Receivables, a bankruptcy remote, special purpose entity that is a wholly-owned limited liability company of Cinergy, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. The securitization transaction was structured to meet the criteria for sale accounting treatment under the accounting guidance for transfers and servicing of financial assets and, accordingly, the transfers of receivables are accounted for as sales. Receivables for unbilled retail and wholesale revenues of approximately $238 million and $266 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were included in the sales of accounts receivables to Cinergy Receivables. Effective January 1, 2010, Duke Energy began consolidating Cinergy Receivables as a result of the adoption of new accounting rules, under which the criteria for sale accounting treatment is not met.  

Accounting for Loss Contingencies  

Duke Energy is involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business. In the preparation of its consolidated financial statements, management makes judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and records a loss contingency when it is determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Management regularly reviews current information available to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts and scenarios that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as federal, state and local courts and other regulators. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long periods of time. Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual outcome once the contingency is resolved, which could have a material impact on future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical cost reimbursement relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985.  

Amounts recognized as asbestos-related reserves related to Duke Energy Carolinas in the Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled approximately $980 million and $1,031 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and are classified in Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other within Current Liabilities. These reserves are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy’s best estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2027. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy Carolinas after 2027. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a longer-term forecast, management does not believe that they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2027 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change our estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors outside our control, management believes that it is possible Duke Energy Carolinas may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of the recorded reserves.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,051 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of approximately $984 million and $1,032 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

For further information, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Accounting for Income Taxes  

Significant management judgment is required in determining Duke Energy’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation recorded against Duke Energy’s net deferred tax assets, if any.  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the book basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The probability of realizing deferred tax assets is based on forecasts of future taxable income and the use of tax planning that could impact the ability to realize deferred tax assets. If future utilization of deferred tax assets is uncertain, a valuation allowance may be recorded against certain deferred tax assets.  

In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable income. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the impacts of various items, including changes to income tax laws, Duke Energy’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. Although management believes current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.  

 Significant judgment is also required in computing Duke Energy’s quarterly effective tax rate (ETR). ETR calculations are revised each quarter based on the best full year tax assumptions available at that time, including, but not limited to, income levels, deductions and credits. In accordance with interim tax reporting rules, a tax expense or benefit is recorded every quarter to adjust for the difference in tax expense computed based on the actual year-to-date ETR versus the forecasted annual ETR.  

With the adoption of new income tax accounting guidance on January 1, 2007, Duke Energy began recording unrecognized tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns, including the decision to exclude certain income or transactions from a return, when a more-likely-than-not threshold is met for a tax position and management believes that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. Duke Energy records the largest amount of the unrecognized tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant  

49  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 management judgment is required to determine whether the recognition threshold has been met and, if so, the appropriate amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management reevaluates tax positions each period in which new information about recognition or measurement becomes available.  

Undistributed foreign earnings associated with International Energy’s operations are considered indefinitely reinvested, thus no U.S. tax is recorded on such earnings. This assertion is based on management’s determination that the cash held in International Energy’s foreign jurisdictions is not needed to fund the operations of its U.S. operations and that International Energy either has invested or has plans to reinvest such earnings. While management currently plans to indefinitely reinvest all of International Energy’s unremitted earnings, should circumstances change, Duke Energy may need to record additional income tax expense in the period in which such determination changes.  

For further information, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Income Taxes.”  

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits  

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and pension and other post-retirement liabilities require the use of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and reported liability amounts, and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes that the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. Additionally, medical and prescription drug cost trend rate assumptions are critical to Duke Energy’s estimates of other post-retirement benefits.  

Funding requirements for defined benefit (DB) plans are determined by government regulations. Duke Energy made voluntary contributions to its DB retirement plans of approximately $800 million in 2009, zero in 2008 and $350 million in 2007. Additionally, during 2007, Duke Energy contributed approximately $62 million to its other post-retirement benefit plans.  

Duke Energy Plans  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries (including legacy Cinergy businesses) maintain non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans (Plans). The Plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits that are based upon a percentage (which may vary with age and years of service) of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain legacy Cinergy employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. Under a final average earnings formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Duke Energy also maintains non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.  

Duke Energy and most of its subsidiaries also provide some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Certain employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.  

Duke Energy recognized pre-tax qualified pension cost of $6 million in 2009. In 2010, Duke Energy’s pre-tax qualified pension cost is expected to be approximately $30 million higher than in 2009 as a result of an increase in net actuarial loss amortization in 2010, primarily attributable to the effect of negative actual returns on assets from 2008. Duke Energy recognized pre-tax nonqualified pension cost of $13 million and pre-tax other post-retirement benefits cost of $34 million, in 2009. In 2010, pre-tax non-qualified pension cost and pre-tax other post-retirement benefits costs are expected to remain approximately the same as 2009.  

For both pension and other post-retirement plans, Duke Energy assumed that its plan’s assets would generate a long-term rate of return of 8.5% as of December 31, 2009. The assets for Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement plans are maintained in a master trust. The investment objective of the master trust is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation target was set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile with respect to the trust. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities, and real estate are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers or investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to its targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Duke Energy also invests other post-retirement assets in the Duke Energy Corporation Employee Benefits Trust (VEBA I) and the Duke Energy Corporation Post-Retirement Medical Benefits Trust (VEBA II). The investment objective of the VEBAs is to achieve sufficient returns, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of promoting the security of plan benefits for participants. The VEBAs are passively managed.  

The expected long-term rate of return of 8.5% for the plan’s assets was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted average returns expected by asset classes were 3.2% for U.S. equities, 2.0% for Non-U.S. equities, 1.0% for Global equities, 2.0% for fixed income securities, and 0.3% for real estate.  

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 5.50% as of December 31, 2009. Duke Energy determines the appropriate discount based on a yield curve approach. Under the yield curve approach, expected future benefit payments for each plan are discounted by a rate on a third-party bond yield curve corresponding to each duration. The yield curve is based on a bond universe of AA and AAA-rated long-term corporate bonds. A single discount rate is calculated that would yield the same present value as the sum of the discounted cash flows.  

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact Duke Energy’s future pension expense and liabilities. Management cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2009 pre-tax pension expense, pension obligation and other post-benefit obligation if a 0.25% change in rates were to occur:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

50  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a medical care trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in medical health care costs. Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a prescription drug trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug health care costs. As of December 31, 2009, the medical care trend rates were 8.50%, which grades to 5.00% by 2019. As of December 31, 2009, the prescription drug trend rate was 11.00%, which grades to 5.00% by 2024. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2009 pre-tax other post-retirement expense and other post-benefit obligation if a 1% point change in the health care trend rate were to occur:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For further information, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Known Trends and Uncertainties  

At December 31, 2009, Duke Energy had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.5 billion, of which approximately $600 million is held in foreign jurisdictions and is forecasted to be used to fund the operations of and investments in International Energy. To fund its liquidity and capital requirements during 2010, Duke Energy will rely primarily upon cash flows from operations, borrowings, equity issuances to fund the dividend reinvestment plan (DRIP) and other internal plans and its existing cash and cash equivalents. The relatively stable operating cash flows of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas business segment compose a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s cash flows from operations and it is anticipated that it will continue to do so for the next several years. A material adverse change in operations, or in available financing, could impact Duke Energy’s ability to fund its current liquidity and capital resource requirements.  

Ultimate cash flows from operations are subject to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends and market volatility (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for details).  

Duke Energy projects 2010 capital and investment expenditures of approximately $5.2 billion, primarily consisting of:  

   •    $4.2 billion at U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

   •    $0.6 billion at Commercial Power  

   •    $0.2 billion at International Energy and  

   •    $0.2 billion at Other  

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors. Based on this goal, approximately 80% of total projected 2010 capital expenditures are allocated to the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. Total U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas projected 2010 capital and investment expenditures include approximately $2.3 billion for system growth, $1.6 billion for maintenance and upgrades of existing plants and infrastructure to serve load growth, approximately $0.2 billion of nuclear fuel and approximately $0.1 billion of environmental expenditures.  

With respect to the 2010 capital expenditure plan, Duke Energy has flexibility within its $5.2 billion budget to defer or eliminate certain spending should the broad economy continue to deteriorate. Of the $5.2 billion budget, approximately $2.9 billion relates to projects for which management has committed capital, including, but not limited to, the continued construction of Cliffside Unit 6 and the Edwardsport IGCC plant, and management intends to spend those capital dollars in 2010 irrespective of broader economic factors. Approximately $2.1 billion of projected 2010 capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system maintenance, customer connections and corporate expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions and customer growth, thus management has more flexibility in terms of when these dollars are actually spent. The remaining planned 2010 capital expenditures of approximately $0.2 billion are of a discretionary nature and relate to growth opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities to meet return expectations.  

As a result of Duke Energy’s significant commitment to modernize its generating fleet through the construction of new units, as well as its focus on increasing its renewable energy portfolio, the ability to cost effectively manage the construction phase of current and future projects is critical to ensuring full and timely recovery of costs of construction within its regulated operations. Should Duke Energy encounter  

51  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 significant cost overruns above amounts approved by the various state commissions, and those amounts are disallowed for recovery in rates, future cash flows and results of operations could be adversely impacted.  

Duke Energy anticipates its debt to total capitalization ratio to remain at approximately 44% in 2010. In 2010, Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing additional net debt of approximately $1.7 billion at the operating subsidiary level, primarily for the purpose of funding capital expenditures. Due to the flexibility in the timing of projected 2010 capital expenditures, the timing and amount of debt issuances throughout 2010 could be influenced by changes in the timing of capital spending. Additionally, Duke Energy plans to generate approximately $400 million of cash from the issuance of common stock under its DRIP and other internal plans.  

Duke Energy has access to unsecured revolving credit facilities, which are not restricted upon general market conditions, with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $3.14 billion. At December 31, 2009, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of approximately $1.9 billion under this facility. Management currently believes that amounts available under its revolving credit facility are accessible should there be a need to generate additional short-term financing in 2010, such as the issuance of commercial paper; however, due to the sustained downturn in overall economic conditions, specifically in the financial services sector, there is no guarantee that commitments provided by financial institutions under the revolving credit facility will be available if needed. Management expects that cash flows from operations, issuances of debt and cash generated from the issuance of common stock under the DRIP and other internal plans will be sufficient to cover the 2010 funding requirements related to capital and investments expenditures and dividend payments.  

Duke Energy monitors compliance with all debt covenants and restrictions and does not currently believe it will be in violation or breach of its significant debt covenants during 2010. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view. If and when management had a belief that such potential breach could exist, appropriate action would be taken to mitigate any such issue. Duke Energy also maintains an active dialogue with the credit rating agencies.  

Operating Cash Flows  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,463 million in 2009, compared to $3,328 million in 2008, an increase in cash provided of $135 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by:  

   •    Excluding the impacts of non-cash impairment charges, net income increased during the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the same period in 2008, and  

   •    Changes in traditional working capital amounts due to timing of cash receipts and cash payments, principally a net increase in cash from taxes of approximately $740 million, partially offset by an increase in coal inventory, partially offset by  

   •    An approximate $800 million increase in contributions to company sponsored pension plans.  

Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,328 million in 2008, compared to $3,208 million in 2007, an increase in cash provided of $120 million. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was driven primarily by:  

   •    An approximate $412 million decrease in contributions to Duke Energy’s pension plan and other post retirement benefit plans, partially offset by  

   •    Net income of $1,362 million in 2008 compared to $1,500 million in 2007.  

Investing Cash Flows  

Net cash used in investing activities was $4,492 million in 2009, $4,611 million in 2008, and $2,151 million in 2007.  

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.  

Capital, Investment and Acquisition Expenditures by Business Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2009 as compared to 2008 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    An approximate $365 million decrease in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, due primarily to 2008 acquisitions discussed below.  

This decrease in cash used was partially offset by the following:  

   •    An approximate $125 million decrease in proceeds from available-for-sale securities, net of purchases, due to net purchases of approximately $25 million in 2009 compared to net proceeds of approximately $100 million in 2008,  

   •    An approximate $70 million decrease in net emission allowance activity, reflecting net purchases in 2009 compared to net sales in 2008, and  

   •    An approximate $30 million decrease in proceeds from asset sales.  

The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2008 as compared to 2007 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    An approximate $1,640 million increase in capital and investment expenditures, due primarily to capital expansion projects, the acquisition of Catamount (approximately $245 million) and the purchase of a portion of Saluda River Electric Cooperative (Saluda), Inc.’s ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station in 2008 (approximately $150 million),  

   •    An approximate $875 million decrease in proceeds from available-for-sale securities, net of purchases, due to net proceeds of approximately $100 million in 2008 compared to net proceeds of approximately $975 million in 2007, primarily as a result of investing  

52  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 excess cash obtained from the issuances of debt during 2008 versus utilizing short-term investments as a source of cash in 2007, and  

   •    An approximate $60 million decrease in proceeds from asset sales.  

These increases in cash used were partially offset by the following:  

   •    An approximate $100 million increase in proceeds from the sale of emission allowances, net of purchases.  

53  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Financing Cash Flows and Liquidity  

Duke Energy’s consolidated capital structure as of December 31, 2009, including short-term debt, was 44% debt and 56% common equity. The fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) guidelines, was 3.0 times for 2009, 3.4 times for 2008, and 3.7 times for 2007.  

Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,585 million in 2009 compared to $1,591 million in 2008, a decrease in cash provided of $6 million. The change was due primarily to the following:  

   •    An approximate $475 million decrease due to the repayment of the Duke Energy Ohio credit facility drawdown and outstanding commercial paper, and  

   •    An approximate $80 million increase in dividends paid in 2009.  

These decreases in cash provided were partially offset by:  

   •    An approximate $385 million increase in proceeds from the issuances of common stock primarily related to the DRIP and other internal plans, and  

   •    An approximate $210 million increase in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions, as a result of net issuances of approximately $2,875 million during 2009 as compared to net issuances of approximately $2,665 million during 2008.  

Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,591 million in 2008 compared to $1,327 million of cash used in 2007, an increase in cash provided of $2,918 million. The change was due primarily to the following:  

   •    An approximate $3,090 million increase in proceeds from issuances of long-term debt, net of redemptions, as a result of net issuances of approximately $2,665 million during 2008 as compared to net repayments of approximately $425 million during 2007,  

   •    An approximate $400 million increase due to the distribution of cash in 2007 related to the spin-off of Spectra Energy,  

   •    An approximate $110 million increase due to payments for the redemption of convertible notes in 2007, and  

   •    An approximate $80 million increase in proceeds from the issuances of common stock primarily related to the DRIP and other internal plans.  

These increases were partially offset by:  

   •    An approximate $690 million decrease in proceeds from issuances of notes payable and commercial paper, net of repayments, and  

   •    An approximate $50 million increase in dividends paid in 2008.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2009. Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy began issuing authorized but unissued shares of common stock to fulfill obligations under its DRIP and other internal plans, including 401(k) plans. Proceeds from all issuances of common stock, primarily related to the DRIP and other employee benefit plans, including employee exercises of stock options, were approximately $519 million in 2009.  

During the year ended December 31, 2009, Duke Energy’s total dividend per share of common stock was $0.94, which resulted in dividend payments of approximately $1,222 million.  

In December 2009, Duke Energy Ohio issued $250 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 2.10% and mature June 15, 2013. Proceeds from this issuance, together with cash on hand, were used to repay Duke Energy Ohio’s borrowing under Duke Energy’s master credit facility. In conjunction with this debt issuance, Duke Energy Ohio entered into an interest rate swap agreement that converted interest on this debt issuance from the fixed coupon rate to a variable rate. The initial variable rate was set at 0.31%. 

In November 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $750 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 5.30% and mature February 15, 2040. Proceeds from this issuance will be used to fund capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including the repayment at maturity of $500 million of senior notes and first mortgage bonds in the first half of 2010. 

In October 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $50 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds through the issuance of $50 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.95% and mature October 1, 2040. The tax-exempt bonds are secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana repaid and immediately re-borrowed approximately $279 million and $123 million, respectively, under Duke Energy’s master credit facility.  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $77 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 3.60% and mature February 1, 2017. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Kentucky issued $100 million of senior debentures, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.65% and mature October 1, 2019. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay Duke Energy Kentucky’s borrowings under Duke Energy’s master credit facility, to replenish cash used to repay $20 million principal amount of debt due September 15, 2009 and for general corporate purposes.  

In August 2009, Duke Energy issued $1 billion principal amount of senior notes, of which $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.95% and mature September 15, 2014 and $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.05% and mature September 15, 2019. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In June 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $55 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds through the issuance of $55 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds due August 1, 2039, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.00% and are secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds. The refunded bonds were redeemed July 1, 2009.  

In March 2009, Duke Energy Ohio issued $450 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 5.45% and mature April 1, 2019. Proceeds from this issuance were used to repay short-term notes and for general corporate purposes, including funding capital expenditures.  

In March 2009, Duke Energy Indiana issued $450 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.45% and mature April 1, 2039. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures, to replenish cash used to repay $97 million of senior notes which matured on March 15, 2009, to fund the repayment at maturity of $125 million of first mortgage bonds due July 15, 2009, and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of short-term notes.  

In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of 6.30% senior notes due February 1, 2014. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.  

In January 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $271 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $271 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by direct-pay letters of credit, of which $144 million had initial rates of 0.7% reset on a weekly basis with $44 million maturing May 2035, $23 million maturing March 2031 and $77 million maturing December 2039. The  

54  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 remaining $127 million had initial rates of 0.5% reset on a daily basis with $77 million maturing December 2039 and $50 million maturing October 2040.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2008. Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, Duke Energy began issuing authorized but unissued shares of common stock to fulfill obligations under its DRIP and other internal plans, including 401(k) plans. Proceeds from all issuances of common stock, primarily related to the DRIP and other employee benefit plans, including employee exercises of stock options, were approximately $133 million in 2008.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, Duke Energy’s total dividend per share of common stock was $0.90, which resulted in dividend payments of approximately $1,143 million.  

In December 2008, Duke Energy Kentucky refunded $50 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $50 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due August 1, 2027, had an initial interest rate of 0.65% which is reset on a weekly basis.  

In November 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 7.00% and mature November 15, 2018 and $400 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.75% and mature November 15, 2013. The net proceeds from issuance were used to repay amounts borrowed under the master credit facility, to repay senior notes due January 1, 2009, to replenish cash used to repay senior notes at their scheduled maturity in October 2008 and for general corporate purposes.  

In October 2008, International Energy issued approximately $153 million of debt in Brazil, of which approximately $112 million mature in September 2013 and carry a variable interest rate equal to the Brazil interbank rate plus 2.15%, and approximately $41 million mature in September 2015 and carry a fixed interest rate of 11.6% plus an annual inflation index. International Energy used these proceeds to pre-pay existing long-term debt balances.  

In September 2008, Duke Energy and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky, borrowed a total of approximately $1 billion under Duke Energy’s master credit facility. For additional information, see “Available Credit Facilities and Restrictive Debt Covenants” below.  

In August 2008, Duke Energy Indiana issued $500 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.35% and mature August 15, 2038. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of short-term notes and to redeem first mortgage bonds maturing in September 2008.  

In June 2008, Duke Energy issued $500 million principal amount of senior notes, of which $250 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.65% and mature June 15, 2013 and $250 million carry a fixed interest rate of 6.25% and mature June 15, 2018. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $300 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.10% and mature April 15, 2018 and $600 million carry a fixed interest rate of 6.05% and mature April 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of approximately $23 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of Interest Expense over the life of the debt.  

In April 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas refunded $100 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $100 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by a direct-pay letter of credit. The variable-rate demand bonds, which are due November 1, 2040, had an initial interest rate of 2.15% which will be reset on a weekly basis.  

In January 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $900 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $400 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.25% and mature January 15, 2018 and $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 6.00% and mature January 15, 2038. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of commercial paper. In anticipation of this debt issuance, Duke Energy Carolinas executed a series of interest rate swaps in 2007 to lock in the market interest rates at that time. The value of these interest rate swaps, which were terminated prior to issuance of the fixed rate debt, was a pre-tax loss of approximately $18 million. This amount was recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized as a component of Interest Expense over the life of the debt.  

Significant Financing Activities—Year Ended 2007. Duke Energy issues shares of its common stock to meet certain employee benefit and long-term incentive obligations. Proceeds from all issuances of common stock, primarily related to employee benefit plans, including employee exercises of stock options, were approximately $50 million in 2007.  

During the year ended December 31, 2007, Duke Energy’s total dividend per share of common stock was $0.86, which resulted in dividend payments of approximately $1,089 million.  

In December 2007, Duke Energy Ohio issued $140 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2041. The initial interest rate was set at 4.85%. The bonds were issued through the Ohio Air Quality Development Authority to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Conesville, Stuart and Killen Generation Stations in Ohio.  

In November 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $100 million in tax-exempt floating-rate bonds. The bonds are structured as insured auction rate securities, subject to an auction process every 35 days and bear a final maturity of 2040. The initial interest rate was set at 3.65%. The bonds were issued through the North Carolina Capital Facilities Finance Agency to fund a portion of the environmental capital expenditures at the Belews Creek and Allen Steam Stations.  

In June 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $500 million principal amount of 6.10% senior unsecured notes due June 1, 2037. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper that was issued to repay the outstanding $249 million 6.6% Insured Quarterly Senior Notes due 2022 on April 30, 2007, and approximately $110 million of convertible debt discussed below. The remainder was used for general corporate purposes.  

On May 15, 2007, substantially all of the holders of the Duke Energy convertible senior notes required Duke Energy to repurchase the balance then outstanding at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest. In May 2007, Duke Energy repurchased approximately $110 million of the convertible senior notes.  

On January 2, 2007, Duke Energy completed the spin-off of the natural gas businesses. In connection with this transaction, Duke Energy distributed all the shares of Spectra Energy to Duke Energy shareholders. The distribution ratio approved by Duke Energy’s Board of Directors was one-half share of Spectra Energy stock for each share of Duke Energy stock.  

Available Credit Facilities and Restrictive Debt Covenants. The total capacity under Duke Energy’s master credit facility, which expires in June 2012, is approximately $3.14 billion. The credit facility contains an option allowing borrowing up to the full amount of the facility on the day of initial expiration for up to one year. Duke Energy and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky (collectively referred to as the borrowers), each have borrowing capacity under the master credit  

55  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 facility up to specified sub limits for each borrower. However, Duke Energy has the unilateral ability to increase or decrease the borrowing sub limits of each borrower, subject to per borrower maximum cap limitations, at any time. The amount available under the master credit facility has been reduced by draw downs of cash and the use of the master credit facility to backstop the issuances of commercial paper, letters of credit and certain tax-exempt bonds.  

Master Credit Facility Summary as of December 31, 2009 (in millions)(a)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) This summary excludes certain demand facilities and committed facilities that are insignificant in size or which generally support very specific requirements, which primarily include facilities that backstop various outstanding tax-exempt bonds.  

 (b) Credit facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65% for each borrower.  

 (c) Contains sub limits at December 31, 2009 as follows: $1,097 million for Duke Energy, $840 million for Duke Energy Carolinas, $650 million for Duke Energy Ohio, $450 million for Duke Energy Indiana and $100 million for Duke Energy Kentucky.  

The loans under the master credit facility are revolving credit loans that currently bear interest at one-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable spread ranging from 19 to 23 basis points. The loan for Duke Energy, which was approximately $274 million at December 31, 2009, has a stated maturity of June 2012, while the loan for Duke Energy Indiana, which was approximately $123 million at December 31, 2009, had a stated maturity of September 2009; however, the borrowers have the ability under the master credit facility to renew the loans due in September 2009 on an annual basis up through the date the master credit facility matures in June 2012. As a result of these annual renewal provisions, in September 2009, Duke Energy Indiana repaid and immediately re-borrowed approximately $123 million under the master credit facility. Duke Energy and Duke Energy Indiana have the intent and ability to refinance these obligations on a long-term basis, either through renewal of the terms of the loan through the master credit facility, which has non-cancelable terms in excess of one-year, or through issuance of long-term debt to replace the amounts drawn under the master credit facility. Accordingly, total borrowings by Duke Energy and Duke Energy Indiana of approximately $397 million are reflected as Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009.  

In September 2008, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively entered into a $330 million three-year letter of credit agreement with a syndicate of banks, under which Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky may request the issuance of letters of credit up to $279 million and $51 million, respectively, on their behalf to support various series of variable rate demand bonds issued or to be issued on behalf of either Duke Energy Indiana or Duke Energy Kentucky. This credit facility, which is not part of Duke Energy’s master credit facility, may not be used for any purpose other than to support the variable rate demand bonds issued by Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky.  

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements. As of December 31, 2009, Duke Energy was in compliance with all covenants related to its significant debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or to the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.  

Credit Ratings. Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries each hold credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s). Duke Energy’s corporate credit rating and issuer credit rating from S&P and Moody’s, respectively, as of February 1, 2010 is A- and Baa2, respectively. The following table summarizes the February 1, 2010 unsecured credit ratings from the rating agencies retained by Duke Energy and its principal funding subsidiaries.  

Senior Unsecured Credit Ratings Summary as of February 1, 2010  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s credit ratings are dependent on, among other factors, the ability to generate sufficient cash to fund capital and investment expenditures and pay dividends on its common stock, while maintaining the strength of its current balance sheet. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, Duke Energy is unable to maintain its current balance sheet strength, or if its earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, Duke Energy’s credit ratings could be negatively impacted.  

Credit-Related Clauses. Duke Energy may be required to repay certain debt should the credit ratings at Duke Energy Carolinas fall to a certain level at S&P or Moody’s. As of December 31, 2009, Duke Energy had approximately $6 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2012 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB- at S&P or Baa3 at Moody’s, and $16 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2016 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB at S&P or Baa2 at Moody’s.  

56  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Other Financing Matters. In October 2007, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the SEC. Under this Form S-3, which is uncapped, Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has paid quarterly cash dividends for 84 consecutive years and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.  

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries. As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Regulatory Matters”, Duke Energy’s wholly-owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy via dividend, advance or loan as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2009, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly-owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is approximately $10.5 billion. However, Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated Retained Earnings account. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have any significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications.  

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly-owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Capital) through indemnification agreements entered into as part of the spin-off of Spectra Energy, having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.  

Duke Energy performs ongoing assessments of its guarantee obligations to determine whether any liabilities have been triggered as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees. Except for certain performance obligations related to Crescent, which filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy petitions in a U.S. Bankruptcy court in June 2009 and for which a liability of approximately $26 million was recorded during 2009 due to the probability of performance under certain guarantees, it is not probable as of December 31, 2009 that Duke Energy will have to perform under its remaining existing guarantee obligations. However, management continues to monitor the financial condition of the third parties or non-wholly-owned entities for whom Duke Energy has issued guarantees on behalf of to determine whether performance under these guarantees becomes probable in the future.  

See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.  

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky have an agreement to sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections to Cinergy Receivables, which purchases, on a revolving basis, nearly all of the retail accounts receivable and related collections of Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. Cinergy Receivables is not consolidated by Duke Energy since it meets the requirements to be accounted for as a qualifying special purpose entity (QSPE). Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky each retain an interest in the receivables transferred to Cinergy Receivables. The transfers of receivables are accounted for as sales under the accounting guidance for transfers and servicing of financial assets. For a more detailed discussion of the sale of certain accounts receivable, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.” With the adoption of new accounting rules related to variable interest entities (VIEs) and transfers and servicing of financial assets on January 1, 2010, Duke Energy began consolidating Cinergy Receivables as of that date.  

Duke Energy also holds interests in other VIEs, both consolidated and unconsolidated. For further information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities”.  

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above and normal operating lease arrangements, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information on these commitments, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

57  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Contractual Obligations  

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations for each of the periods presented. It is expected that the majority of current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets will be paid in cash in 2010.  

Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2009  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.” Amount includes interest payments over life of debt. Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using interest rates derived from the interpolation of the forecast interest rate curve. In addition, a spread was placed on top of the interest rates to aid in capturing the volatility inherent in projecting future interest rates.  

 (b) See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”. Amounts in the table above include the interest component of capital leases based on the interest rates explicitly stated in the lease agreements.  

 (c) Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity, and natural gas transportation contracts.  

 (d) Includes contractual obligations to purchase physical quantities of electricity, coal, nuclear fuel and limestone. Also, includes contracts that Duke Energy has designated as hedges, undesignated contracts and contracts that qualify as normal purchase/normal sale (NPNS). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on forward market prices at December 31, 2009. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.  

 (e) Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new generation plants and nuclear plant refurbishments, environmental projects on fossil facilities, major maintenance of certain non-regulated plants, maintenance and day to day contract work at certain wind facilities and commitments to buy wind and combustion turbines (CT). Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase cannot be determined.  

 (f) Relates to future annual funding obligations to the nuclear decommissioning trust fund (NDTF) (see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”).  

 (g) The table above excludes certain obligations discussed herein related to amounts recorded within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the uncertainty of the timing and amount of future cash flows necessary to settle these obligations. The amount of cash flows to be paid to settle the asset retirement obligations is not known with certainty as Duke Energy may use internal resources or external resources to perform retirement activities. As a result, cash obligations for asset retirement activities are excluded from the table above. However, the vast majority of asset retirement obligations will be settled beyond 2014. Asset retirement obligations recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets total $3,185 million and the fair value of the NDTF, which will be used to help fund these obligations, is $1,765 million at December 31, 2009. The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing of when cash payments will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans”) and regulatory liabilities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also excluded are Deferred Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year. Additionally, amounts related to uncertain tax positions are excluded from the table above due to uncertainty of timing of future payments.  

 (h) Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, have been excluded from the above table.  

58  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Risk Management Policies  

Duke Energy is exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, credit exposure, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Management has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Chief Risk Officer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall governance of managing credit risk and commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.  

Commodity Price Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. Duke Energy’s exposure to these fluctuations is limited by the cost-based regulation of its U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas operations and certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations as these regulated operations are typically allowed to recover certain of these costs through various cost-recovery clauses, including the fuel clause. While there may be a delay in timing between when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered through rates, changes from year to year have no material impact on operating results of these regulated operations. Additionally, most of Duke Energy’s long-term power sales contracts substantially shift all fuel price risk to the purchaser.  

Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage its risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”  

Validation of a contract’s fair value is performed by an internal group separate from Duke Energy’s deal origination areas. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in Duke Energy’s pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.  

Hedging Strategies. Duke Energy closely monitors the risks associated with commodity price changes on its future operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.  

Certain derivatives used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. To the extent that instruments accounted for as hedges are effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations until after delivery or settlement occurs. Accordingly, assumptions and valuation techniques for these contracts have no impact on reported earnings prior to settlement. Several factors influence the effectiveness of a hedge contract, including the use of contracts with different commodities or unmatched terms and counterparty credit risk. Hedge effectiveness is monitored regularly and measured at least quarterly.  

In addition to the hedge contracts described above and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, Duke Energy enters into other contracts that qualify for the NPNS exception. When a contract meets the criteria to qualify as a NPNS, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power apply such exception. Income recognition and realization related to normal purchases and normal sales contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of power. For contracts qualifying for the NPNS exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract as long as the transaction remains probable of occurring.  

Other derivatives used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as a hedge or do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts. Undesignated derivatives entered into by regulated businesses reflect mark-to-market changes of the derivative instruments fair value as a regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Undesignated derivatives entered into by unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.  

Generation Portfolio Risks for 2010. Duke Energy is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, natural gas, and coal prices in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. Duke Energy optimizes the value of its bulk power marketing and non-regulated generation portfolios. The portfolios include generation assets (power and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. The generation portfolio not utilized to serve native load or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations, although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations reported earnings is partially offset by mechanisms in the regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, it was estimated that a 10% price change per MWh in forward wholesale power prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $12 million in 2010 and would have had a $10 million impact in 2009, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, it was estimated that a 10% change in the forward price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $8 million in 2010 and would have had a $10 million impact in 2009, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying or undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, it was estimated that a 10% price change per Million British Thermal Unit (MMBtu) in natural gas prices would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $6 million in 2010 and would have had a $5 million impact in 2009, excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes on undesignated hedges relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date, which are discussed further below.  

Sensitivities for derivatives beyond 2010. Derivative contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks for delivery periods beyond 2010 are also exposed to changes in fair value due to market price fluctuations of wholesale power and coal. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, it was estimated that a 10% price change in the forward price per MWh of wholesale power would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $24 million in 2010 and would have had a $11 million impact in 2009, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated power contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date. Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, it was estimated that a 10% change in the forward price per ton of coal would have a corresponding effect on Duke Energy’s pre-tax income of approximately $10 million  

59  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 in 2010 and 2009, resulting from the impact of mark-to-market changes on non-qualifying and undesignated coal contracts pertaining to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.  

Other Commodity Risks. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, pre-tax income in 2010 and 2009 was not expected to be materially impacted for exposures to other commodities’ price changes.  

The commodity price sensitivity calculations above consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.  

Credit Risk  

Credit risk represents the loss that Duke Energy would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. To reduce credit exposure, Duke Energy seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. Duke Energy attempts to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable Duke Energy to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. Duke Energy may, at times, use credit derivatives or other structures and techniques to provide for third-party credit enhancement of Duke Energy’s counterparties’ obligations. Duke Energy also obtains cash or letters of credit from customers to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on its financial analysis of the customer and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction.  

Duke Energy’s industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. Duke Energy frequently uses master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents an unsecured credit limit, determined in accordance with the corporate credit policy. Collateral agreements also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions.  

Duke Energy’s principal customers for power and natural gas marketing and transportation services are industrial end-users, marketers, local distribution companies and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. Duke Energy has concentrations of receivables from natural gas and electric utilities and their affiliates, as well as industrial customers and marketers throughout these regions. These concentrations of customers may affect Duke Energy’s overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Where exposed to credit risk, Duke Energy analyzes the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establishes credit limits and monitors the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $1,051 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of approximately $984 million and $1,032 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly-owned entities and third parties. Where Duke Energy has issued these guarantees, it is possible that Duke Energy could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where Duke Energy has issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, Duke Energy attempts to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by Duke Energy or its subsidiaries.  

Duke Energy is also subject to credit risk of its vendors and suppliers in the form of performance risk on contracts including, but not limited to, outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and commodity purchases. Duke Energy’s credit exposure to such vendors and suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance.  

Based on Duke Energy’s policies for managing credit risk, its exposures and its credit and other reserves, Duke Energy does not anticipate a materially adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

Interest Rate Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of its issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages its interest rate exposure by limiting its variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 8, 9, and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” “Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities,” and “Debt and Credit Facilities.”  

Based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2009, it was estimated that if market interest rates average 1% higher (lower) in 2010 than in 2009, interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would increase (decrease) by approximately $19 million. Comparatively, based on a sensitivity analysis as of December 31, 2008, had interest rates averaged 1% higher (lower) in 2009 than in 2008, it was estimated that interest expense, net of offsetting impacts in interest income, would have increased (decreased) by approximately $28 million. These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges, short-term and long-term investments, cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The decrease in interest rate sensitivity is primarily due to a decrease in tax-exempt bonds and commercial paper, partial repayment of the master credit facility borrowings, and increased cash balances. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in Duke Energy’s financial structure.  

60  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Marketable Securities Price Risk  

As described further in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in debt and equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations of the business. The vast majority of the investments in equity securities are within the NDTF and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.  

NDTF. As discussed further in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”, Duke Energy maintains trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning. As of December 31, 2009, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, fixed-income securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per NRC and NCUC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. The investments are exposed to price fluctuations in debt and equity markets. Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ rates; therefore, fluctuations in equity prices do not affect Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations as changes in the fair value of these investments are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’ rates over time. Management monitors the NDTF investment portfolio by benchmarking the performance of the investments against certain indices and by maintaining and periodically reviewing target allocation percentages for various asset classes.  

The following table provides the fair value of investments held in the NDTF at December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Pension Plan Assets. Duke Energy maintains investments to help fund the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. Those investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. Duke Energy’s target asset allocation for equity securities is approximately 64% of the value of the plan assets and the holdings are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase its funding of the pension plan in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension cost required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy’s results of operations in those periods. During 2009, Duke Energy contributed approximately $800 million to its qualified pension plan. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information on pension plan assets.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments in international affiliate businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. Dollar and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of the foreign currencies to which it has exposure.  

In 2010, Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian Real. A 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates as of December 31, 2009 in all of Duke Energy’s exposure currencies would result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $20 million to Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2010. The Consolidated Balance Sheet would be negatively impacted by approximately $160 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31, 2009 as a result of a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates. For comparative purposes, as of December 31, 2008, a 10% devaluation in the currency exchange rates in all of Duke Energy’s exposure currencies was expected to result in an estimated net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings of approximately $10 million to Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations and a reduction of approximately $120 million currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in AOCI as of December 31, 2008.  

Other Issues  

Global Climate Change. Although there is still much to learn about the causes and long-term effects of climate change, many, including Duke Energy, advocate taking steps now to begin reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions with the long-term aim of stabilizing the atmospheric concentration of GHGs at a level that avoids any potentially worst-case effects of climate change.  

The EPA publishes an inventory of man-made U.S. GHG emissions annually. Carbon dioxide (CO2), a byproduct of fossil fuel combustion, currently accounts for about 85% of total U.S. GHG emissions. Duke Energy’s GHG emissions consist primarily of CO2 and most come from its fleet of coal fired power plants in the U.S. In 2009, Duke Energy’s U.S. power plants emitted approximately 91 million tons of CO2. The CO2 emissions from Duke Energy’s international electric operations are less than 3 million tons annually. Duke Energy’s future CO2 emissions will be influenced by variables including new regulations, economic conditions that affect electricity demand, and Duke Energy’s decisions regarding generation technologies deployed to meet customer electricity needs.  

Congress has not yet passed legislation mandating control or reduction of GHGs. On June 26, 2009, the U. S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2454 - the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACES). This legislation includes a GHG cap-and-trade program that covers approximately 85% of the GHG emissions in the U.S. economy, including emissions from the electric utility sector. The legislation also includes a combined efficiency and renewable electricity standard that applies to the electric utility sector. The standard establishes  

61  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 minimum requirements for the amount of renewable energy electric utilities must provide to end-use customers on an annual basis. It allows companies to comply by providing renewable energy, buying renewable energy credits from other companies or the government, or by reducing customer electricity demand through the deployment of energy efficiency programs.  

On November 5, 2009, the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee passed and sent to the Senate floor S. 1733 - the Clean Energy Jobs and American Power Act of 2009 (S. 1733). The legislation included an economy-wide cap-and-trade program similar to the one contained in ACES. The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee had previously passed legislation containing new requirements for energy efficiency and for a renewable electricity standard. No further Senate action has been taken on either bill since passage out of their respective committees.  

The debates that took place in the U.S. Senate in 2008 and 2009 make it clear that there are wide-ranging views among Senators regarding what constitutes acceptable climate change legislation. These divergent views, the state of the economy, the current structure of the Senate necessitating 60 votes to move legislation and the political pressures as the 2010 mid-term election approaches, make passage of federal climate change legislation in the Senate in 2010 highly uncertain. If the Senate were to pass some type of climate change legislation in 2010, the Senate legislation would need to be reconciled with ACES. This adds another layer of uncertainty to the prospects for enactment of climate change legislation in 2010.  

On December 7, 2009, the EPA finalized an Endangerment Finding for greenhouse gases under the CAA. The Endangerment Finding does not impose any regulatory requirements on industry, but is a necessary prerequisite for the EPA to be able to finalize its proposed GHG emission standard for new motor vehicles. It is expected that the EPA will finalize its New Motor Vehicle Rule by the end of March 2010. Implementation of the New Motor Vehicle Rule may trigger permitting requirements and potentially GHG emission control requirements for new and existing “major” stationary sources of GHG emissions which would include all of Duke Energy’s fossil fuel facilities. The EPA has stated that permitting requirements for GHGs will not apply to stationary sources in 2010.  

The EPA has also proposed the Tailoring Rule, which is expected to be finalized by the end of March 2010. This rule is intended to provide relief from the EPA’s GHG regulations for certain types of stationary sources, but not electric generating facilities. There is, at present, considerable uncertainty over the timing and the specific requirements that would apply to any stationary source that might potentially be subject to GHG permitting and emission reduction requirements as a result of the EPA’s rules. Although Duke Energy does not anticipate taking actions that would trigger the GHG permitting requirements or GHG emission reduction requirements at any of its existing generating facilities, if it were to do so, the current uncertainty surrounding the implementation of the rules and the requirements that might apply prevent management from being able to determine at this time whether the EPA rules will have a material impact on Duke Energy’s future results of operations. Numerous groups have already filed petitions with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals for review of the EPA’s Endangerment Finding. It is likely that the EPA’s upcoming New Motor Vehicle and Tailoring rules will also be challenged in court once they are finalized. The current and expected legal challenges create additional uncertainty with respect to the EPA rules and what regulatory requirements, if any, will result from the rules.  

Duke Energy supports the enactment of workable federal GHG legislation. Duke Energy prefers federal legislation over any EPA regulation of GHG emissions under the current CAA and believes that any legislation must include provisions that block the EPA from doing so and provide that the legislative program is the sole remedy for a source’s GHG emissions. To permit the economy to adjust rationally to the policy, legislation should establish a long-term program that first slows the growth of emissions, stops them and then transitions to a gradually declining emissions cap as new lower-and zero-emitting technologies are developed and become available for wide-scale deployment at a reasonable cost. Federal legislation should also include effective cost-containment measures to protect the U.S. economy from harmful consequences if compliance costs are excessive.  

Duke Energy is unable to determine the potential cost of complying with unspecified and unknowable future GHG legislation or any indirect costs that might result, however, such costs could be significant. Duke Energy’s cost of complying with any legislatively-mandated federal GHG emissions regulations will depend upon the design details of the program, and upon the future levels of Duke Energy’s GHG emissions that might be regulated under the program. If potential future federal GHG legislation mandates a cap-and-trade approach, for example, the design elements of such a program that will have the greatest influence on Duke Energy’s compliance costs include (i) the level of the emissions cap over time, (ii) the GHG emission sources covered under the cap, (iii) the number of allowances that Duke Energy might be allocated at no cost on a year-to-year basis, (iv) the type and effectiveness of any cost containment measures that may be included in the program, (v) the role of emission offsets in the program, (vi) the availability and cost of technologies that will be available for Duke Energy to deploy to lower its emissions over time, and (vii) the price of allowances and emission offsets. Although Duke Energy believes it is likely that Congress will adopt mandatory GHG emission reduction legislation at some point, the timing and design details of any such legislation are highly uncertain at this time.  

Assuming that a federal GHG cap-and-trade program is eventually enacted, Duke Energy’s compliance obligation under such a program would generally be determined by the difference between the level of its emissions in a given year and the number of no-cost allowances it receives for that year. This difference would represent the emission reductions that Duke Energy would need to achieve to comply and/or the number of allowances and/or offsets Duke Energy would need to purchase to comply, or a combination of the two. The cost of achieving the emission reductions and/or the cost of purchasing the needed allowances and/or emission offsets would represent Duke Energy’s compliance costs. This is why the more no-cost allowances Duke Energy receives, the lower its compliance obligation will be, and the lower its compliance cost will be. This is also why actions Duke Energy is taking today to reduce its GHG emissions over time will lower its exposure to any future GHG regulation. Under any future scenario involving mandatory GHG limitations, Duke Energy would plan to seek to recover its compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms in the jurisdictions in which it operates.  

 Although a near-term compliance strategy under a GHG cap-and-trade program might be focused primarily on the purchase of allowances and/or offsets due to the lack of available emission reduction technologies and/or the time it would take to deploy technologies once they become available, it is likely that over time there would be more focus placed on deploying technology to achieve large-scale reductions in emissions. This strategy could involve replacing some existing coal-fired generation with new lower-and zero-emitting generation technologies, and/or installing new carbon capture and sequestration technology when the technologies become ready for deployment. Although there is uncertainty about what new technologies may be developed, when they may be deployed, and what their costs will be, Duke Energy currently is focused on advanced nuclear generation, IGCC with CO2 capture and sequestration, and CO2 capture and storage retrofit technology for existing pulverized coal-fired generation as promising technologies for generating electricity with lower or no CO2 emissions. Duke Energy is also making a significant commitment to increased customer energy efficiency and promoting enhanced use of renewable energy for meeting customers’ electricity needs. Duke Energy’s actions are designed to build a sustainable business that allows our customers and our shareholders to prosper in what is expected to be a carbon-constrained environment.  

At the state level, the Midwestern Governors Association launched an initiative several years ago called the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord (Accord). One of the objectives of the initiative was to produce a Model Rule for implementing a GHG cap-and-trade system on a regional level for consideration by individual states. In October 2009, the Accord produced a draft Model Rule, and plans to finalize the document in early 2010. Once finalized, the Model Rule will be available to states for their consideration and possible adoption and implementation. The states of Ohio and Indiana, where Duke Energy has electric generation operations, have been observers to the  

62  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 Accord process and have shown no interest in adopting the Model Rule. Based on the current position of Indiana and Ohio in this regard, Duke Energy does not anticipate any cost impacts from the initiative.  

In December 2007, Duke Energy began the regulatory process to construct a new nuclear power plant, William States Lee III Nuclear Station, in South Carolina, by petitioning the NRC for a COL. If constructed, this facility would produce virtually no GHGs.  

With regard to advanced clean-coal, Duke Energy is in the process of constructing an IGCC power plant in Indiana. One of the key features of the IGCC technology is that it has the potential to support the capture of its CO2 emissions, with subsequent underground storage of the captured CO2. Although the IGCC plant, scheduled to begin operations in 2012, is not currently being equipped with the technology to capture CO2, space was included in the design of the plant for this technology to be added later. Duke Energy is working to complete in early 2011 the front-end engineering and design of a CO2-capture facility. The deployment of CO2 capture and storage technology would help Duke Energy comply with any future GHG emission reduction requirements.  

The state legislatures of North Carolina and Ohio have passed laws that require Duke Energy to meet increasing percentages of its customers’ electricity needs with renewable energy and customer energy efficiency. In North Carolina the requirement reaches 12.5% in 2021 and in Ohio it reaches a minimum of 12.5% in 2024. Duke Energy will be meeting these requirements through a variety of actions and each is expected to assist Duke Energy’s overall effort to reduce its CO2 emissions. Versions of an energy efficiency and renewable electricity standard have been passed by the House as part of ACES and by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in S. 1462. Given the current challenges associated with passing comprehensive federal climate change legislation, Congress could instead attempt to pass energy legislation in 2010 that includes a federal energy efficiency and renewable electricity standard – provisions both the full House and a Senate committee have approved, albeit at different levels. If this were to occur, Duke Energy’s compliance with the North Carolina and Ohio requirements would further its ability to comply with whatever federal requirements Congress might enact.  

In addition to relying on new technologies to reduce its CO2 emissions, Duke Energy has filed for regulatory approval in most of the states in which it operates for its energy efficiency programs, which will help meet customer electricity needs by increasing energy efficiency, thereby reducing demand instead of relying almost exclusively on new power plants to generate electricity. Duke Energy has received regulatory approval from Ohio, North Carolina and South Carolina and is in the process of rolling programs out in these states. Duke Energy received regulatory approval from Indiana and has withdrawn its filing in Kentucky.  

Duke Energy recognizes that certain groups associate frequent and severe extreme weather events with climate change and the associated damage to the electric distribution system and the possibility that these weather events could have a material impact on future results of operations should these events occur. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and severity), the long period of time over which any changes might take place, and the inability to predict these accurately, make estimating any potential future financial risk to Duke Energy’s operations that may be caused by the physical risks of climate change impossible. Currently, Duke Energy plans and prepares for extreme weather events that it experiences from time to time, such as ice storms, tornados, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts. Duke Energy’s past experiences preparing for and responding to the impacts of these types of weather-related events would reasonably be expected to help management plan and prepare for future climate change-related severe weather events to reduce, but not eliminate, the operational, economic and financial impacts of such events. Duke Energy also routinely takes steps to reduce the potential impact of severe weather events on its electric distribution systems. Duke Energy does not currently operate in coastal areas and therefore is not exposed to the effects of potential sea level rise. Duke Energy’s electric generating facilities are designed to withstand extreme weather events without damage. Duke Energy maintains an inventory of coal and oil on site to mitigate the effects of any potential short-term disruption in its fuel supply so it can continue to provide its customers with an uninterrupted supply of electricity.  

For additional information on other issues related to Duke Energy, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

New Accounting Standards  

The following new Accounting Standard Updates (ASU) have been issued, but have not yet been adopted by Duke Energy, as of December 31, 2009:  

Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 860 – Transfers and Servicing. In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued revised accounting guidance for transfers and servicing of financial assets and extinguishment of liabilities, to require additional information about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, as well as additional information about an enterprise’s continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. This revised accounting guidance eliminates the concept of a QSPE and requires those entities which were not subject to consolidation under previous accounting rules to now be assessed for consolidation. In addition, this accounting guidance clarifies and amends the derecognition criteria for transfers of financial assets (including transfers of portions of financial assets) and requires additional disclosures about a transferor’s continuing involvement in transferred financial assets. For Duke Energy, this revised accounting guidance is effective prospectively for transfers of financial assets occurring on or after January 1, 2010, and early adoption of this statement is prohibited. Since 2002, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana, and Duke Energy Kentucky have sold, on a revolving basis, nearly all of their accounts receivable and related collections through Cinergy Receivables, a bankruptcy-remote QSPE. The securitization transaction was structured to meet the criteria for sale accounting treatment, and accordingly, Duke Energy has not consolidated Cinergy Receivables, and the transfers have been accounted for as sales. Upon adoption of this revised accounting guidance, the accounting treatment and/or financial statement presentation of Duke Energy’s accounts receivable securitization programs will be impacted as Cinergy Receivables will be consolidated by Duke Energy as of January 1, 2010. See Note 21 for additional information.  

 ASC 810 - Consolidations. In June 2009, the FASB amended existing consolidation accounting guidance to eliminate the exemption from consolidation for QSPEs, and clarified, but did not significantly change, the criteria for determining whether an entity meets the definition of a VIE. This revised accounting guidance also requires an enterprise to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE based on whether that enterprise has both the power to direct matters that most significantly impact the activities of a VIE and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of a VIE that could potentially be significant to a VIE. In addition, this revised accounting guidance modifies existing accounting guidance to require an ongoing evaluation of a VIE’s primary beneficiary and amends the types of events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a VIE. Furthermore, this accounting guidance requires enterprises to provide additional disclosures about their involvement with VIEs and any significant changes in their risk exposure due to that involvement. For Duke Energy, this accounting guidance is effective beginning on January 1, 2010, and is applicable to all entities in which Duke Energy is involved with, including entities previously subject to existing accounting guidance for VIEs, as well as any QSPEs that exist as of the effective date. Early adoption of this revised accounting guidance is prohibited. Upon adoption of this revised accounting guidance, the accounting treatment and/or financial statement presentation of Duke Energy’s accounts receivable securitization programs will be impacted as Cinergy Receivables will be consolidated by Duke Energy effective January 1, 2010. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the potential impact of the adoption of this revised accounting guidance on its other interests in VIEs and is unable to estimate at this time the impact of adoption on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

63  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.