Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Duke Energy’s franchised electric revenues, earnings and results are dependent on state legislation and regulation that affect electric generation, transmission, distribution and related activities, which may limit Duke Energy’s ability to recover costs.  

Duke Energy’s franchised electric businesses are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to the statutes and regulatory commission rules and procedures of North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. If Duke Energy’s franchised electric earnings exceed the returns established by the state regulatory commissions, Duke Energy’s retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the commissions, which may decrease Duke Energy’s future earnings. Additionally, if regulatory bodies do not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, Duke Energy’s future earnings could be negatively impacted.  

Duke Energy may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to Duke Energy’s ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities.  

Duke Energy’s ownership interest in and operation of three nuclear stations subject Duke Energy to various risks including, among other things: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.  

Duke Energy’s ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities requires Duke Energy to meet licensing and safety-related requirements imposed by the NRC. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation. Revised security and safety requirements promulgated by the NRC, which could be prompted by, among other things, events within or outside of Duke Energy’s control, such as a serious nuclear incident at a facility owned by a third-party, could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures at Duke Energy’s nuclear plants, as well as assessments against Duke Energy to cover third-party losses. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy’s results of operations and financial condition.  

Duke Energy’s ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities also requires Duke Energy to maintain funded trusts that are intended to pay for the decommissioning costs of Duke Energy’s nuclear power plants. Poor investment performance of these decommissioning trusts’ holdings and other factors impacting decommissioning costs could unfavorably impact Duke Energy’s liquidity and results of operations as Duke Energy could be required to significantly increase its cash contributions to the decommissioning trusts.  

Duke Energy’s plans for future expansion and modernization of its generation fleet subject it to risk of failure to adequately execute and manage its significant construction plans, as well as the risk of recovering all such costs or of recovering costs in an untimely manner, which could materially impact Duke Energy’s results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

During the three year period from 2010 to 2012, Duke Energy anticipates cumulative capital expenditures of approximately $14 billion to $15 billion of which approximately $11 billion relates to its regulated U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas businesses. The completion of Duke Energy’s anticipated capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities is subject to many construction and development risks, including, but not limited to, risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards. Moreover, Duke Energy’s ability to recover all these costs and recovering costs in a timely manner could materially impact Duke Energy’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

23  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

Duke Energy’s sales may decrease if Duke Energy is unable to gain adequate, reliable and affordable access to transmission assets.  

Duke Energy depends on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity Duke Energy sells to the wholesale market. FERC’s power transmission regulations, as well as those of Duke Energy’s international markets, require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. If transmission is disrupted, or if transmission capacity is inadequate, Duke Energy’s ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered.  

The different regional power markets have changing regulatory structures, which could affect Duke Energy’s growth and performance in these regions. In addition, the independent system operators who oversee the transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed in the past, and may impose in the future, price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may adversely impact the profitability of Duke Energy’s wholesale power marketing business.  

Duke Energy may be unable to secure long-term power sales agreements or transmission agreements, which could expose Duke Energy’s sales to increased volatility.  

In the future, Duke Energy may not be able to secure long-term power sales agreements to customers for Duke Energy’s unregulated power generation facilities. If Duke Energy is unable to secure these types of agreements, Duke Energy’s sales volumes would be exposed to increased volatility. Without the benefit of long-term customer power purchase agreements, Duke Energy cannot assure that it will be able to sell the power generated by Duke Energy’s facilities or that Duke Energy’s facilities will be able to operate profitably. The inability to secure these agreements could materially adversely affect Duke Energy’s financial and operational results.  

Competition in the unregulated markets in which Duke Energy operates may adversely affect the growth and profitability of Duke Energy’s business.  

Duke Energy may not be able to respond in a timely or effective manner to the many changes designed to increase competition in the electricity industry. To the extent competitive pressures increase, the economics of Duke Energy’s business may come under long-term pressure.  

In addition, regulatory changes have been proposed to increase access to electricity transmission grids by utility and non-utility purchasers and sellers of electricity. These changes could continue the disaggregation of many vertically-integrated utilities into separate generation, transmission, distribution and retail businesses. As a result, a significant number of additional competitors could become active in the wholesale power generation segment of Duke Energy’s industry.  

Duke Energy may also face competition from new competitors that have greater financial resources than Duke Energy does, seeking attractive opportunities to acquire or develop energy assets or energy trading operations both in the United States and abroad. These new competitors may include sophisticated financial institutions, some of which are already entering the energy trading and marketing sector, and international energy players, which may enter regulated or unregulated energy businesses. This competition may adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to make investments or acquisitions.  

Customers of Duke Energy Ohio have recently begun to select alternative electric generation service providers, as allowed by Ohio legislation.  

Under current Ohio legislation, electric generation is sold in a competitive market in Ohio, and Duke Energy’s native load customers in Ohio have the ability to switch to alternative suppliers for their electric generation service. Competitive power suppliers have announced intentions of supplying power to Duke Energy’s current customers in Ohio, and Duke Energy has experienced an increase in customer switching in the second half of 2009. These evolving market conditions may continue to impact Duke Energy’s results of operations, and also may impact Duke Energy’s ability to continue to apply regulatory accounting treatment to certain portions of its Commercial Power business segment.  

Duke Energy must meet credit quality standards and there is no assurance that it and its rated subsidiaries will maintain investment grade credit ratings. If Duke Energy or its rated subsidiaries are unable to maintain an investment grade credit rating, Duke Energy would be required under credit agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect Duke Energy’s liquidity.  

Each of Duke Energy’s and its rated subsidiaries senior unsecured long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by various rating agencies. Duke Energy cannot be sure that the senior unsecured long-term debt of Duke Energy or its rated subsidiaries will be rated investment grade in the future.  

If the rating agencies were to rate Duke Energy or its rated subsidiaries below investment grade, the entity’s borrowing costs would increase, perhaps significantly. In addition, Duke Energy or its rated subsidiaries would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and its potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Further, if its short-term debt rating were to fall, the entity’s access to the commercial paper market could be significantly limited. Any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of Duke Energy’s subsidiaries could make their costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could increase Duke Energy’s need to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus reducing the liquidity and borrowing availability of the consolidated group.  

A downgrade below investment grade could also require Duke Energy to post additional collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash under various credit agreements and trigger termination clauses in some interest rate derivative agreements, which would require cash payments. All of these events would likely reduce Duke Energy’s liquidity and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Duke Energy relies on access to short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets to finance Duke Energy’s capital requirements and support Duke Energy’s liquidity needs, and Duke Energy’s access to those markets can be adversely affected by a number of conditions, many of which are beyond Duke Energy’s control.  

 Duke Energy’s business is financed to a large degree through debt and the maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from Duke Energy’s assets. Accordingly, Duke Energy relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from Duke Energy’s operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt instruments with disparate maturities. If Duke Energy is not able to access capital at competitive rates or at all, Duke Energy’s ability to finance its operations and implement its strategy and business plan as scheduled could be adversely affected. An inability to access capital may limit Duke Energy’s ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that Duke Energy may otherwise rely on for future growth.  

24  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

Market disruptions may increase Duke Energy’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include: economic downturns; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Duke Energy’s facilities or unrelated energy companies; or the overall health of the energy industry.  

Duke Energy maintains revolving credit facilities to provide back-up for commercial paper programs and/or letters of credit at various entities. These facilities typically include financial covenants which limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of the total capital for the specific entity. Failure to maintain these covenants at a particular entity could preclude Duke Energy from issuing commercial paper or Duke Energy and its affiliates from issuing letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility. Additionally, failure to comply with these financial covenants could result in Duke Energy being required to immediately pay down any outstanding amounts under other revolving credit agreements.  

Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks may delay or reduce Duke Energy’s realization of value from Duke Energy’s international projects.  

Duke Energy currently owns and may acquire and/or dispose of material energy-related investments and projects outside the United States. The economic, regulatory, market and political conditions in some of the countries where Duke Energy has interests or in which Duke Energy may explore development, acquisition or investment opportunities could present risks related to, among others, Duke Energy’s ability to obtain financing on suitable terms, Duke Energy’s customers’ ability to honor their obligations with respect to projects and investments, delays in construction, limitations on Duke Energy’s ability to enforce legal rights, and interruption of business, as well as risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law, regulations, market rules or tax policy.  

Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates. These risks, and Duke Energy’s activities to mitigate such risks, may adversely affect Duke Energy’s cash flows and results of operations.  

Duke Energy’s operations and investments outside the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates. As each local currency’s value changes relative to the U.S. dollar—Duke Energy’s principal reporting currency—the value in U.S. dollars of Duke Energy’s assets and liabilities in such locality and the cash flows generated in such locality, expressed in U.S. dollars, also change. Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian Real.  

Duke Energy selectively mitigates some risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations by, among other things, indexing contracts to the U.S. dollar and/or local inflation rates, hedging through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency and hedging through foreign currency derivatives. These efforts, however, may not be effective and, in some cases, may expose Duke Energy to other risks that could negatively affect Duke Energy’s cash flows and results of operations.  

Duke Energy is exposed to credit risk of the customers and counterparties with whom Duke Energy does business.  

Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, customers and counterparties with whom Duke Energy does business could impair the ability of these customers and counterparties to pay for Duke Energy’s services or fulfill their contractual obligations, including loss recovery payments under insurance contracts, or cause them to delay such payments or obligations. Duke Energy depends on these customers and counterparties to remit payments on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect Duke Energy’s cash flows, financial position or results of operations.  

Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact Duke Energy’s liquidity and results of operations.  

Duke Energy’s costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and Duke Energy’s required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. While Duke Energy complied with the minimum funding requirements as of December 31, 2009, Duke Energy has certain qualified U.S. pension plans with obligations which exceeded the value of plan assets by approximately $471 million. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of Duke Energy’s plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting Duke Energy’s costs as listed above, Duke Energy could be required to fund its plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on Duke Energy’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Duke Energy is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, can increase Duke Energy’s cost of operations, and which may impact or limit Duke Energy’s business plans, or expose Duke Energy to environmental liabilities.  

Duke Energy is subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of Duke Energy’s present and future operations, including air emissions (such as reducing NOx, SO2 and mercury emissions in the U.S., or potential future control of greenhouse-gas emissions), water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require Duke Energy to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, including expenditures for cleanup costs and damages arising out of contaminated properties, and failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets. The steps Duke Energy could be required to take to ensure that its facilities are in compliance could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, Duke Energy may be required to shut down or alter the operation of its facilities, which may cause Duke Energy to incur losses. Further, Duke Energy’s regulatory rate structure and Duke Energy’s contracts with customers may not necessarily allow Duke Energy to recover capital costs Duke Energy incurs to comply with new environmental regulations. Also, Duke Energy may not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for Duke Energy’s operating assets or development projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if Duke Energy fails to obtain and comply with them or if environmental laws or regulations change and become more stringent, then the operation of Duke Energy’s facilities or the development of new facilities could be prevented, delayed or become subject to additional costs. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no assurance can be made that the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not have such an effect.  

25  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

There is growing consensus that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including CO2) and such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs in the form of taxes or emission allowances.  

The EPA also has plans to propose new federal regulations governing the management of coal combustion by-products, including fly ash. These regulations may require Duke Energy to make additional capital expenditures and increase Duke Energy’s operating and maintenance costs.  

Additionally, potential other new environmental regulations, including the use of coal from mountain removal and water discharge, could require Duke Energy to make additional capital expenditures and increase costs of fuel.  

In addition, Duke Energy is generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of Duke Energy’s power generation facilities and natural gas assets which Duke Energy has acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with some acquisitions and sales of assets, Duke Energy may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If Duke Energy incurs a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations to Duke Energy, Duke Energy could suffer material losses.  

Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs that could adversely affect Duke Energy’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows and Duke Energy’s utilities’ businesses.  

Increased competition resulting from deregulation or restructuring efforts, including from the Energy Policy Act of 2005, could have a significant adverse financial impact on Duke Energy and Duke Energy’s utility subsidiaries and consequently on Duke Energy’s results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Increased competition could also result in increased pressure to lower costs, including the cost of electricity. Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy and gas service could have a significant adverse financial impact on Duke Energy and Duke Energy’s subsidiaries due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. Duke Energy cannot predict the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric markets. Duke Energy cannot predict when Duke Energy will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can Duke Energy predict the impact of these changes on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Duke Energy is involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcome of which are uncertain, and resolution adverse to Duke Energy could negatively affect Duke Energy’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Duke Energy is subject to numerous legal proceedings, including claims for damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen prior to 1985 from the exposure to or use of asbestos at electric generation plants of Duke Energy Carolinas. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties and Duke Energy cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which Duke Energy is involved could require Duke Energy to make additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have a material effect on Duke Energy’s cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, it is reasonably possible that the terms of resolution could require Duke Energy to change Duke Energy’s business practices and procedures, which could also have a material effect on Duke Energy’s cash flows, financial position or results of operations.  

Duke Energy’s results of operations may be negatively affected by overall market, economic and other conditions that are beyond Duke Energy’s control.  

Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affect the markets in which Duke Energy operates and negatively influence Duke Energy’s energy operations. Declines in demand for energy as a result of economic downturns in Duke Energy’s franchised electric service territories will reduce overall sales and lessen Duke Energy’s cash flows, especially as Duke Energy’s industrial customers reduce production and, therefore, consumption of electricity and gas. Although Duke Energy’s franchised electric and gas business is subject to regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of certain costs, such as fuel under periodic adjustment clauses, overall declines in electricity sold as a result of economic downturn or recession could reduce revenues and cash flows, thus diminishing results of operations. Additionally, prolonged economic downturns that negatively impact Duke Energy’s results of operations and cash flows could result in future material impairment charges being recorded to write-down the carrying value of certain assets, including goodwill, to their respective fair values.  

Duke Energy also sells electricity into the spot market or other competitive power markets on a contractual basis. With respect to such transactions, Duke Energy is not guaranteed any rate of return on Duke Energy’s capital investments through mandated rates, and Duke Energy’s revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices in Duke Energy’s regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and could reduce Duke Energy’s revenues and margins and thereby diminish Duke Energy’s results of operations.  

Factors that could impact sales volumes, generation of electricity and market prices at which Duke Energy is able to sell electricity are as follows:  

   •    weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather that cause lower energy usage for heating or cooling purposes, respectively, and periods of low rainfall that decrease Duke Energy’s ability to operate its facilities in an economical manner;  

   •    supply of and demand for energy commodities;  

   •    illiquid markets including reductions in trading volumes which result in lower revenues and earnings;  

   •    transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies which impact Duke Energy’s non-regulated energy operations;  

   •    availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, which are preferred by some customers over electricity produced from coal, nuclear or gas plants, and of energy-efficient equipment which reduces energy demand;  

   •    natural gas, crude oil and refined products production levels and prices;  

   •    ability to procure satisfactory levels of inventory, such as coal and uranium;  

   •    electric generation capacity surpluses which cause Duke Energy’s non-regulated energy plants to generate and sell less electricity at lower prices and may cause some plants to become non-economical to operate; and  

   •    capacity and transmission service into, or out of, Duke Energy’s markets.  

These factors have led to industry-wide downturns that have resulted in the slowing down or stopping of construction of new power plants and announcements by Duke Energy and other energy suppliers and gas pipeline companies of plans to sell non-strategic assets, subject to regulatory constraints, in order to boost liquidity or strengthen balance sheets. Proposed sales by other energy suppliers could increase the supply of the types of assets that Duke Energy is attempting to sell. In addition, recent FERC actions addressing power market concerns could negatively impact the marketability of Duke Energy’s electric generation assets.  

26  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

Duke Energy’s operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.  

Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In most parts of the United States and other markets in which Duke Energy operates, demand for power peaks during the warmer summer months, with market prices typically peaking at that time. In other areas, demand for power peaks during the winter. Further, extreme weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms could cause these seasonal fluctuations to be more pronounced. As a result, in the future, the overall operating results of Duke Energy’s businesses may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis and thus make period comparison less relevant.  

Duke Energy’s business is subject to extensive federal regulation that will affect Duke Energy’s operations and costs.  

Duke Energy is subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC and various other federal agencies. Regulation affects almost every aspect of Duke Energy’s businesses, including, among other things, Duke Energy’s ability to: take fundamental business management actions; determine the terms and rates of Duke Energy’s transmission and distribution businesses’ services; make acquisitions; issue equity or debt securities; engage in transactions between Duke Energy’s utilities and other subsidiaries and affiliates; and the ability of the operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to Duke Energy. Changes to these regulations are ongoing, and Duke Energy cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on Duke Energy’s business. However, changes in regulation (including re-regulating previously deregulated markets) can cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and can substantially increase Duke Energy’s costs.  

New laws or regulations could have a negative impact on Duke Energy’s financial position, cash flows or results of operations.   

Changes in laws and regulations affecting Duke Energy, including new accounting standards could change the way Duke Energy is required to record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These types of regulations could have a negative impact on Duke Energy’s financial position, cash flows or results of operations or access to capital.  

Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions could adversely affect Duke Energy’s business.  

The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the United States and its allies may lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas and oil which may materially adversely affect Duke Energy in ways Duke Energy cannot predict at this time. In addition, future acts of terrorism and any possible reprisals as a consequence of action by the United States and its allies could be directed against companies operating in the United States or their international affiliates. Infrastructure and generation facilities such as Duke Energy’s nuclear plants could be potential targets of terrorist activities. The potential for terrorism has subjected Duke Energy’s operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy’s business. In particular, Duke Energy may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for its plants, including its nuclear power plants under the NRC’s design basis threat requirements, such as additional physical plant security, additional security personnel or additional capability following a terrorist incident.  

The insurance industry has also been disrupted by these potential events. As a result, the availability of insurance covering risks Duke Energy and Duke Energy’s competitors typically insure against may decrease. In addition, the insurance Duke Energy is able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, lower coverage limits and more restrictive policy terms.  

Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to Duke Energy or that Duke Energy currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect Duke Energy’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

27  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

Item 2. Properties.