Item 1A – Risk Factors 

We have developed a risk management process using periodic surveys, external research, risk mapping, analytics and other tools to identify and evaluate the operational, financial, environmental, reputational, strategic and other risks that could adversely affect our business. For more information about our risk management process, which is administered by our Chief Risk Officer and includes developing risk mitigation controls and procedures for the material risks we identify, see the description included in the proxy statement for our annual meeting of shareholders under “The Board’s Role in Risk Oversight.” 

We describe below all known material risks that could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or business prospects. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in our future periodic reports on Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and reports on other forms we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements about our future results of operations or other matters made by us in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in our Annual Report to Lowe’s Shareholders and in our subsequently filed reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as in our press releases and other public communications, are qualified by the risks described below. 

Our sales are dependent upon the health and stability of the general economy. 

General economic factors and other conditions, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect the U.S. economy, the global economy and our financial performance. These include, but are not limited to, periods of slow economic growth or recession, volatility and/or lack of liquidity from time to time in U.S. and world financial markets and the consequent reduced availability and/or higher cost of borrowing to Lowe’s and its customers, slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income, sustained high rates of unemployment, unsupportable consumer debt levels, increasing fuel and energy costs, inflation or deflation of commodity prices, natural disasters, acts of terrorism and developments in the war against terrorism in Asia, the Middle East and other parts of the world. 

Adverse changes in economic factors specific to the home improvement industry may negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and comparable store sales. 

Sales of many of our product categories and services are driven by the activity level of home improvement projects. Steep declines over the last four years in home prices, the increasing number of households with little or negative equity, high mortgage delinquency and foreclosure rates, the reduction in the availability of mortgage financing, slower household formation growth rates, and lower housing turnover through existing home sales, which is a major driver of our business, have limited, and may continue to limit, consumers’ discretionary spending, particularly on larger home improvement projects that are important to our business. The large number of borrowers who remain at risk of potentially losing their homes through foreclosures or short sales, coupled with the voluntary and involuntary halts of foreclosure proceedings by lenders due to legal challenges to the adequacy of their documentation and record keeping, could prolong the downturn in the housing and home improvement markets and negatively impact the rate of growth of our total sales and our comparable store sales. 

10 

Changes in existing or new laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. 

Laws and regulations at the state, federal and international levels change frequently and can impose significant costs and other burdens of compliance on our business and our vendors. Any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation that affects employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, energy costs, health care, tax or environmental issues, could have an adverse impact, directly or indirectly, on our financial condition and results of operations. 

We have many competitors, who could take sales and market share from us if we fail to execute our merchandising, marketing and distribution strategies effectively. 

We operate in a highly competitive market for home improvement products and services and have numerous large and small, direct and indirect competitors. The competitive environment in which we operate is particularly challenging during periods of slow economic growth and high unemployment with heavy promotions, particularly of discretionary items. The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores, customer service, quality and price of merchandise and services, in-stock levels, and merchandise assortment and presentation. Our failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the markets for home improvement products and services could affect our financial performance. Moreover, changes in the promotional pricing and other practices of our competitors, including the effects of competitor liquidation activities, may impact our expected results. 

If our employees or third-party installers and repair technicians are unable to accept and embrace changes in our business model, we may not be able to realize the full benefits of our strategic initiatives. 

We are adapting our business model to meet our customers’ changing expectations that we will not only sell them the products they need and want, but also deliver a full service experience by being a part of their home improvement projects from start to finish. Our goal is to simplify the complex process of home improvement, provide better project execution than our competitors and generally make the process of doing a small or large home improvement project as seamless as possible. Reaching that goal on a continual basis requires that we deliver a consistent look and feel as our customers interact with Lowe’s through our stores, our web site, our contact center, our project specialists who meet with them in their homes, our third-party installers and repair technicians, and our in-home delivery of products they purchase online or in our stores. This will require new competencies in some positions, and our employees, third-party installers, and repair technicians will not only have to understand non-traditional selling platforms but also commit to changing how they have traditionally interacted with our customers. To the extent they are unable or unwilling to embrace and accept these changes in our business model, our strategic initiatives designed to increase our sales and capture a greater percentage of our customers’ expenditures on home improvement projects may not be as successful as we expect them to be. 

Our inability to effectively manage our relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products could negatively impact our ability to differentiate ourselves from competitors. 

Part of our expansion strategy includes continued differentiation from competitors. To better distinguish our product offering, we form strategic relationships with selected suppliers to market and develop products under a variety of recognized and respected national brand names. The inability to effectively and efficiently manage and maintain the relationships with these suppliers could negatively impact our business plan and financial results. 

Expanding internationally presents unique challenges that will require us to adapt our store operations, merchandising, marketing and distribution functions to serve customers in Canada and Mexico and to work effectively with our joint venture partner in Australia. 

About one-third of our anticipated store growth over the next five years will be in Canada and Mexico. We are also in a joint venture with Australia’s largest retailer, Woolworths Limited, to develop a network of home improvement stores for consumers in Australia. Expanding internationally presents unique challenges that may increase the anticipated costs and risks, and slow the anticipated rate of such expansion. 

11 

If we are unable to secure or develop and implement sufficiently robust new technologies to deliver business process solutions within the appropriate time frame, cost and functionality, our strategic business initiatives that are dependent upon these technologies may not be successful. 

The success of our strategic business initiatives designed to increase our sales and capture a greater percentage of our customers’ expenditures on home improvement projects is dependent in varying degrees on the timely delivery and the functionality of information technology systems to support them. The users and the developers of these technology systems share the responsibility for their timely and cost-effective delivery as well as their functionality, requiring them to collaborate and cooperate closely with one another. Extended delays or cost overruns in securing, developing and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support the new business initiatives we are developing now, and will be developing in the future, would delay and possibly even prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of those initiatives. 

Our financial performance could suffer if we fail to properly maintain our critical information systems or if those systems are seriously disrupted. 

An important part of our efforts to achieve efficiencies, cost reductions, and sales and cash flow growth is the maintenance and ongoing improvements of our existing management information systems that support operations such as inventory replenishment, merchandise ordering, transportation, receipt processing and product delivery. Our financial performance could be adversely affected if our management information systems are seriously disrupted or we are unable to maintain, improve, upgrade, and expand our systems. 

As customer-facing technology systems become an increasingly important part of our multi-channel sales and marketing strategy, the failure of those systems to perform effectively and reliably could keep us from delivering positive customer experiences. 

Access to the internet from computers, smart phones and other mobile communication devices has empowered our customers and changed the way they shop and how we interact with them. Our website, Lowes.com is a sales channel for our products, and is also a method of making product, project and other relevant information available to them that influences a large portion of our in-store sales. In addition to Lowes.com, we have multiple affiliated websites through which we seek to inspire, inform, cross-sell, establish online communities among and otherwise interact with our customers. Performance issues with these customer-facing technology systems or a complete failure of one or more of them without a disaster recovery plan that can be quickly implemented could quickly destroy the positive benefits they provide to our home improvement business and negatively affect our customers’ perceptions of Lowe’s as a reliable source of information about home improvement products and services. 

Our business and our reputation could be adversely affected by the failure to protect sensitive customer, employee or vendor data or to comply with evolving regulations relating to our obligation to protect such data. 

While we have invested heavily in the protection of our information technology and maintain what we believe are adequate security controls over individually identifiable customer, employee and vendor data provided to us, a breakdown or a breach in our systems that results in the unauthorized release of individually identifiable customer or other sensitive data could nonetheless occur and have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operating results and financial condition. Such a breakdown or breach could also materially increase the costs we incur to protect against such risks. Also, the regulatory environment relating to our obligation to protect such sensitive data is becoming stricter. A material failure on our part to comply with these evolving regulations could subject us to fines or other regulatory sanctions and potentially to lawsuits. 

If we fail to hire, train, manage and retain qualified sales associates and specialists, or contract with qualified installers and repair technicians, with expanded skill sets who can work effectively and collaboratively in an increasingly culturally diverse environment, we could lose sales to our competitors. 

Our customers, whether they are homeowners or commercial businesses, expect our sales associates and specialists to be well trained and knowledgeable about the products we sell and the home improvement services we provide. Our customers also expect the independent contractors who install products they purchase from us to perform the installation in a timely and capable manner. Increasingly, our sales associates and specialists must have expanded skill sets, including in some instances the ability to do in-home or telephone sales. In addition, in many of our stores our employees and third-party contractors must be able to serve customers whose primary language and cultural traditions are different from their own. Also, as our employees as a group become increasingly culturally diverse, our managers and sales associates must be able to manage and work collaboratively with employees whose primary language and cultural traditions are different from their own. 

12 

Index 

Failure of a key vendor or service provider that we cannot quickly replace could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. 

No single vendor of the products we sell accounts for more than 8% of our total purchases, but we rely upon a number of vendors as the sole or primary source of some of the products we sell. We also rely upon many independent service providers for technology solutions and other services that are important to many aspects of our business. If these vendors or service providers fail or are unable to perform as expected and we are unable to replace them quickly, our business could be adversely affected at least temporarily until we are able to do so and potentially, in some cases, permanently. 

Failure to achieve and maintain a high level of product and service quality could damage our image with customers and negatively impact our sales, profitability, cash flows and financial condition. 

Product and service quality issues could result in negative impact on customer confidence in Lowe’s and the Company’s brand image. As a result, Lowe’s reputation as a retailer of high quality products, including both national and Lowe’s private brands, could suffer. Additionally, a decline in product and service quality could result in product recalls, product liability and warranty claims. 

If the domestic or international supply chain for our products is disrupted, our sales and gross margin would be adversely impacted. 

We source the approximately 40,000 products we stock and sell from over 7,000 domestic and international vendors. We source an increasing number of those products directly from foreign manufacturers. Financial instability among key vendors, political instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates and transport capacity and costs are beyond our control and could negatively impact our business if they seriously disrupted the movement of products through our supply chain or increased their costs. 

Item 1B – Unresolved Staff Comments 

None. 

Item 2 - Properties