Part I 

Item 1 - Business 

General Information 

Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe’s) is a Fortune® 50 company and the world’s second largest home improvement retailer. As of January 28, 2011, we operated 1,749 stores, comprised of 1,723 stores across 50 U.S. states, 24 stores in Canada and two stores in Mexico. Our 1,749 stores represent approximately 197 million square feet of retail selling space. 

We opened 42 new stores in fiscal 2010, including eight Canadian stores and our first two stores in Mexico. Our 2010 store openings included three primary prototypes: 117,000-square-foot (117K) and 103,000-square-foot (103K) stores for large markets and a 94,000-square-foot (94K) store to serve smaller markets. We expect to open 25 to 30 new stores in fiscal 2011, approximately one-quarter of which will be in Canada. Our fiscal 2011 store openings will be comprised primarily of 103K and 94K stores. As we strive to maximize our return on investment, we consider market demographics and land availability, among other factors, to determine the appropriate prototype for a particular market.  

During 2009, we entered into a joint venture agreement with Australian retailer Woolworths Limited, to develop a chain of home improvement stores in Australia. We are a one-third owner of the joint venture, which expects to open its first stores in the second half of 2011. 

Lowe’s was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol “LOW.” 

See Item 6, “Selected Financial Data,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. For additional information about the Company’s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Our Promise 

Our vision is to be customers’ first choice for home improvement. Customers expect that we will not only sell them the products they need and want, but also deliver a full service experience by being a part of their home improvement projects from start to finish. Our goal is to simplify the complex process of home improvement, provide better project execution than our competitors, and make the process of doing a small or large home improvement project as seamless and simple as possible for homeowners, renters and Commercial Business Customers. At the core of this goal are three principles: possibilities, support and value. Possibilities means helping customers find better ways to activate their dreams through fresh, innovative solutions and giving customers easier ways to maintain and repair their homes. Support means being a trusted partner and resource whenever and wherever customers need us in the home improvement process. Value means offering competitive prices plus helping customers successfully accomplish their projects. 

Customers, Market and Competition 

Our Customers 

We serve homeowners, renters and Commercial Business Customers. Individual homeowners and renters complete various projects differently and vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). Commercial Business Customers include those who work in the construction, repair/remodel, commercial and residential property management, or business maintenance professions. 

4 

Our Market 

Using the most recent comprehensive data available, which is from 2009, we estimate the size of the U.S. home improvement market to be approximately $570 billion annually, comprised of $430 billion of product demand and $140 billion of installed labor opportunity. We analyzed data from a variety of primary and secondary sources, including trade associations, government publications, industry participants and other sources as the basis for our estimate. This data captures a wide range of categories relevant to our business, including major appliances and garden supplies. Based on the most recently available data, we believe that the size of the U.S. home improvement market decreased approximately 11% in 2009. 

We are among the many businesses, including home centers, paint stores, hardware stores, lumber yards and garden centers, whose revenues are included in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers Subsector (444) of the Retail Trade Sector of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS Subsector 444 in 2009 was $271 billion, which represented a decline of 11.5% from the total amount reported in 2008. This decline is similar to our estimate of the decline in the larger overall U.S. home improvement market. The total annual revenue reported for businesses included in NAICS Subsector 444 in 2010 was $287 billion, which represented an increase of 6.1% over the amount reported for 2009. We have observed similar trends in the data we are collecting, which we will use to estimate the size of the larger overall U.S. home improvement market for 2010. 

There are many variables that impact consumer demand for the home improvement products and services we offer. Key indicators we monitor include employment, home prices, real disposable personal income, housing turnover, and home ownership levels. We also monitor demographic and societal trends that are indicators of home improvement industry growth.  

  ·    The forecasted average unemployment rate of 9.0% for 2011 from the March 2011 Blue Chip Economic Indicators™ is lower than the 9.6% average seen in 2010, but suggests nonetheless that Americans will continue to face challenging employment prospects this year.    

  ·    Home prices initially stabilized in late 2009 after falling nearly 25% from peak levels in 2005, according to data from the National Association of Realtors® and Moody’s Analytics. Home prices improved somewhat in 2010, supported by the federal home-buyer tax credit and voluntary foreclosure moratoria instituted by several large mortgage loan service providers. However, economists generally expect home prices to decline another 5% to 8% during 2011 as foreclosure activity accelerates.    

  ·    Although growth in real disposable personal income continues to improve, it is projected to grow at a slower pace for 2011 than the long-term average annual increase of 3.4% during the period from 1960 to 2009. Real disposable personal income growth is forecasted to be 2.6% for calendar 2011, compared with 1.4% for calendar 2010, based on data from the March 2011 Blue Chip Economic Indicators™.    

  ·    Housing turnover, which peaked in calendar year 2005, remains significantly below peak levels according to The National Association of Realtors. However, recent data suggests that housing turnover in 2011 will increase over 2010.    

  ·    According to the U.S. Census Bureau, while U.S. home ownership levels over the past year have continued their decline, from 67.2% in the fourth quarter of 2009 to 66.5% in the fourth quarter of 2010, they remain above their historical average. Home ownership is important to our business because it provides an established customer base for home maintenance and repair projects.     

Currently, these indicators suggest moderately improving consumer demand for the home improvement products and services that we sell. However, in this uncertain economic environment, we continue to balance implementation of our long-term growth plans with our near-term focus on improving performance and maintaining adequate liquidity. 

5 

Our Competition 

The home improvement retailing business includes many competitors. We compete with other chains of home improvement warehouse stores and lumberyards in most of our trade areas. We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical and home supply retailers. In addition, we compete, with respect to some of our products, with general merchandise retailers, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, online and other specialty retailers. The principal competitive factors in our industry include location of stores, customer service, quality and price of merchandise and services, merchandise assortment and presentation, and in-stock levels. See further discussion of competition in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Products and Services 

Our Products 

Product Selection 

To meet customers’ varying home improvement needs, we offer a complete line of products for maintenance, repair, remodeling, home decorating and property maintenance. We offer home improvement products in the following categories: appliances, lumber, paint, millwork, building materials, lawn & landscape products, flooring, rough plumbing, seasonal living, tools, hardware, fashion plumbing, lighting, nursery, outdoor power equipment, cabinets & countertops, home organization, rough electrical and home fashion. A typical Lowe's store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with hundreds of thousands of items available through our Special Order Sales system and Lowes.com. Our Special Order Sales product offerings provide customers the opportunity to select a wider assortment of product options beyond the items we carry in our stores through electronic product catalogs and Lowes.com. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years. 

We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand name merchandise, as well as building long-term value for Lowe’s through the development of private brands. 

National Brand Name Merchandise 

In many product categories, customers look for a brand they know and trust to instill confidence in their purchase. Each Lowe’s store carries a wide selection of national brand name merchandise such as Whirlpool® appliances and water heaters, Stainmaster® carpets, Valspar® paints and stains, Pella® windows and doors, Dewalt® power tools, Owens Corning® roofing, Johns Manville® insulation, James Hardie® fiber cement siding and many more. Our merchandise selection provides the DIY, DIFM and Commercial Business Customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance or construction projects. 

Private Brands 

Private brands exclusive to Lowe’s are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to differentiate us from the competition with unique innovations and designs. Private brands also provide a value alternative to national brands and, in categories where there are no strong national brands, can be used to give the customer a more simplified shopping experience. We sell private brands throughout our stores including tools, seasonal living, home fashion, home organization, paint, fashion plumbing, flooring, millwork, hardware, lighting and lumber. Some of Lowe’s most important private brands include Kobalt® tools, allen+roth® home décor products, Portfolio® lighting products, Garden Treasures® lawn and patio products, Utilitech® electrical and utility products, Reliabilt® doors and windows, Aquasource® faucets and sinks, Harbor Breeze® ceiling fans and Top Choice® lumber products. 

Supply Chain 

We source our products from over 7,000 merchandise vendors worldwide with no single vendor accounting for more than 8% of total purchases. We believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products. Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin. 

6 

To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate 14 highly-automated regional distribution centers (RDCs) in the United States. On average, each domestic RDC serves approximately 120 stores. In addition, we lease and operate a distribution facility to serve our Canadian stores. We also operate 15 flatbed distribution centers to distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, irrigation pipe, vinyl sidings, ladders and building materials. Additionally, we operate three facilities to support our import business, Special Order Sales and internet fulfillment. We also utilize three third-party transload facilities, which do not warehouse inventory, but are the first point of receipt for imported products. The transload facilities sort and allocate products to RDCs based on individual store demand and forecasts. 

On average in fiscal 2010, over 75% of the total dollar amount of stock merchandise we purchased was shipped through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to stores from our vendors. 

Our Service Offerings 

Installed Sales 

We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with flooring, millwork and cabinets & countertops accounting for the majority of sales. Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to maintain their focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products sold are efficiently executed. Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 6% of total sales in fiscal 2010. 

Extended Protection and Repair Services 

We offer extended protection plans on many of our products in key categories such as appliances, tools and outdoor power equipment. These plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends the original manufacturer’s warranty. Additionally, we offer repair services for all major appliances that we sell and our in-house call center schedules the visits for these products, whether or not covered by an original manufacturer’s warranty or by an extended protection plan. 

Credit Financing 

We offer a proprietary credit card for retail customers under an agreement with GE Money Bank. In addition, we offer a Lowe’s Project Card to provide in-store major project financing solutions, as well as a co-branded Lowe’s Visa® card. 

We also offer proprietary credit programs for Commercial Business Customers. They include a Lowe’s Business Account, which is ideal for small- to medium-size businesses and offers minimum monthly payments, and Lowe’s Accounts Receivable, which is ideal for medium- to large-size businesses that pay in full each month. We also offer the Lowe’s Business Rewards Card from American Express®. 

For additional information regarding our credit programs, see the summary of our significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Selling Channels 

We have multiple channels through which we engage customers and sell our products and service offerings, including our stores, Lowes.com, and job site/in-home selling. Although we sell through all of these channels, our primary channel to fulfill customer orders continues to be our retail home improvement stores. 

Stores 

Our 1,749 retail home improvement stores are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 113,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling pace. Our stores offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on local market factors. We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and integrate our order management and fulfillment processes with our other distribution channels. 

7 

Lowes.com 

Through Lowes.com, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience and helping reduce the complexity of product decisions and home improvement projects by providing online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and information. These tools help consumers make smarter, more informed purchasing decisions and give them confidence as they undertake simple to more complex home improvement projects. We also enable customers to choose from a variety of multichannel fulfillment options, including buy online and pick-up in-store as well as direct shipment to their homes. As our business evolves, we continue to look for opportunities beyond fulfillment to leverage emerging technologies and online trends to build strong relationships with consumers that will make us the first choice for their home improvement needs. Lowes.com sales accounted for less than 1% of our total sales in fiscal 2010. 

Job site/In-home selling 

We have on-site specialists available to consumers and Commercial Business Customers to assist them in selecting products and services to purchase for a project. For Commercial Business Customers, the District Commercial Account Specialist (DCAS) meets with Commercial Business Customers in their place of business or on a job site and leverages stores within the district to ensure we can meet customer needs for products and resources. Our Project Specialist Exteriors (PSE) program is available in over 1,300 Lowe’s stores to discuss projects such as roofing, siding, fencing and windows, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. The PSEs take the measurements and complete Installed Sales transactions in the customer's home. 

Employees 

As of January 28, 2011, we employed approximately 161,000 full-time and 73,000 part-time employees, none of which in the U.S. or Canada is covered by collective bargaining agreements. Employees in Mexico are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with its employees to be good. 

Seasonality and Working Capital 

The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal. Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December and January). Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes. We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed. For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Intellectual Property 

The name “Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary has various additional registered trademarks, trade names and service marks, most of which are used in our private brand program. 

8 

Environmental Leadership 

We continue to build on a history of environmental leadership by helping consumers reduce their energy and water use and their environmental footprint while saving money through a growing number of product and service solutions. We offer a wide selection of environmentally responsible and energy-efficient products for the home, from ENERGY STAR® appliances to paint with no volatile organic compounds (VOC). Some highlights of our  

environmental leadership include: 

  ·    The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency awarded us two consecutive ENERGY STAR® Sustained Excellence Awards in Retail (2010-2011), which recognizes our long-standing leadership as a retailer of energy-efficient products, as well as nine consecutive ENERGY STAR® awards (2003-2011), including four ENERGY STAR® Partner of the Year awards for educating consumers about the benefits of energy efficiency.    

  ·    We participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project, an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world.     

  ·    We provide in-store customer recycling for plastic bags, CFLs and rechargeable batteries.    

  ·    We were recognized as a Top 10 retailer participating in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Green Power Partnership program.     

In addition to operating our stores as efficiently as possible by reducing our energy and water usage, we are striving to get products to our stores in an environmentally responsible manner. Our conservation strategies and continued contributions to the transportation industry have been honored by multiple SmartWay Environmental Excellence Awards, an innovative program launched by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in 2004 that represents environmentally cleaner, more fuel efficient transportation options. To earn those awards, we implemented initiatives that resulted in reduced carbon dioxide emissions and less overall highway congestion. These included increasing shipping by rail, increasing efficiency of truckload shipments, allowing more products to be shipped on fewer trailers, and continuing to use a higher percentage of SmartWay carriers. 

Compliance with Environmental Matters 

Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. They have in the past and may in the future increase our costs of doing business in a variety of ways, including indirectly through increased energy costs as producers of energy and petroleum, and potentially other major emitters of greenhouse gases, are subjected to increased or new regulation or legislation that results in greater regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. We do not anticipate any material capital expenditures during fiscal 2011 for environmental control facilities or other costs of compliance with such laws or regulations. 

Reaching Out 

Lowe’s has a long and proud history of supporting local communities through public education and community improvement projects. In 2010, Lowe's and Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation (LCEF) contributed more than $30 million to schools and community organizations in the United States, Canada and Mexico. LCEF was created in 1957 to assist communities through financial contributions while also encouraging employees to become involved through volunteerism. In 2010, LCEF supported more than 3,100 community and education projects. LCEF funds our signature education grant program, Lowe’s Toolbox for Education®, and national partnerships. Lowe’s Toolbox for Education grants totaling nearly $25 million have benefited approximately 3 million schoolchildren since 2006. Lowe’s has worked with Habitat for Humanity® since 2003 to combat substandard housing. Our commitment through 2013 will bring Lowe's Habitat contributions to nearly $40 million since the partnership began. We also partner with customers to support the American Red Cross, contributing more than $20 million since 1999. Lowe’s encourages employee volunteerism through the Lowe’s Heroes program, a companywide initiative. Lowe's Heroes participated in more than 1,300 projects across North America in 2010. For more information on our community involvement, please see the Lowe’s Social Responsibility Report at Lowes.com/socialresponsibility. 

9 

Index 

Available Information   

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at www.Lowes.com/investor, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange  

Commission (SEC). The public may also read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  

Item 1A – Risk Factors