PART I  

  Item 1.    Business.    

 Company Overview  

 Baxter develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, cancer, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide. These products are used by hospitals, kidney dialysis centers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, doctors’ offices, clinical and medical research laboratories, and by patients at home under physician supervision. Baxter manufactures products in 26 countries and sells them in more than 100 countries.  

 Baxter International Inc. was incorporated under Delaware law in 1931. As used in this report, except as otherwise indicated in information incorporated by reference, “Baxter International” means Baxter International Inc. and “Baxter”, the “company” or the “Company” means Baxter International and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

 Business Segments  

 The BioScience, Medication Delivery and Renal segments comprise Baxter’s continuing operations.  

 BioScience. The BioScience business manufactures recombinant and plasma-based proteins to treat hemophilia and other bleeding disorders; plasma-based therapies to treat immune deficiencies, alpha 1-antitrypsin deficiency, burns and shock, and other chronic and acute blood-related conditions; products for regenerative medicine, such as proteins used in hemostasis, wound-sealing and tissue regeneration; and vaccines. Effective February 28, 2007, the company sold substantially all of the assets and liabilities of its Transfusion Therapies business (TT) to an affiliate of TPG Capital, L.P. (TPG). Under transition agreements, the company will continue to provide manufacturing and a variety of support services to the business for a period of time after divestiture, which varies based on the product or service provided and other factors. See “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 3 Sale of Transfusion Therapies Business” of Baxter’s Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2007 which is filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of the TT divestiture.  

 Medication Delivery. The Medication Delivery business manufactures products used in the delivery of fluids and drugs to patients. These include intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs and drug-reconstitution systems, pre-filled vials and syringes for injectable drugs, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, and inhalation anesthetics, as well as products and services related to drug formulation and packaging technologies.  

 Renal. The Renal business provides products to treat end-stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure. The business manufactures peritoneal dialysis (PD) solutions and other products for PD, a home-based dialysis therapy, and also distributes products for hemodialysis (HD), which is generally conducted in a hospital or clinic.  

 Financial information about Baxter’s segments and principal product lines is incorporated by reference from the section entitled “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 Segment Information” of Baxter’s Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2007.  

 Sales and Distribution  

 The company has its own sales force and also makes sales to and through independent distributors, drug wholesalers acting as sales agents and specialty pharmacy or homecare companies. In the United States,  

 1   

 Cardinal Health, Inc. warehouses and ships a significant portion of the company’s products through its distribution centers. These centers are generally stocked with adequate inventories to facilitate prompt customer service. Sales and distribution methods include frequent contact by sales representatives, automated communications via various electronic purchasing systems, circulation of catalogs and merchandising bulletins, direct-mail campaigns, trade publication presence and advertising.  

 International sales are made and products are distributed on a direct basis or through independent local distributors or sales agents in more than 100 countries. International subsidiaries employ their own field sales forces in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Guatemala, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, the United Kingdom and Venezuela.  

 Contractual Arrangements  

 Substantial portions of the company’s products are sold through contracts with customers, both within and outside the United States. Many of these contracts have terms of more than one year and place limits on price increases. In the case of hospitals and other facilities, these contracts may specify minimum quantities of a particular product or categories of products to be purchased by the customer. Over the years there has been consolidation in our customer base and as a result, transactions with customers are larger and more complex.  

 In keeping with the increased emphasis on cost-effectiveness in healthcare delivery, many hospitals and other customers of medical products in the United States and in other countries have joined group purchasing organizations (GPOs), or combined to form integrated delivery networks (IDNs), to enhance purchasing power. GPOs and IDNs negotiate pricing arrangements with manufacturers and distributors, and the negotiated prices are made available to members. Baxter has purchasing agreements with several of the major GPOs in the United States. Some of these GPOs have agreements with more than one supplier for certain products. Accordingly, in these cases, Baxter faces competition from other suppliers even where a customer is a member of a GPO under contract with Baxter.  

 Raw Materials  

 Raw materials essential to Baxter’s business are purchased worldwide in the ordinary course of business from numerous suppliers. Although most of these materials are generally available, certain raw materials used in producing some of the company’s products are available only from one or a limited number of suppliers, and Baxter has at times experienced shortages of supply. In an effort to manage risk associated with raw materials supply, Baxter works closely with its suppliers to help ensure availability and continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability. The company also seeks to develop new sources of supply where beneficial to its overall raw materials procurement strategy.  

 In some situations, the company has long-term supply contracts with its suppliers to help maintain continuity of supply and manage the risk of price increases. Baxter is not always able to recover cost increases for raw materials through customer pricing due to contractual limits and market pressure on such price increases.  

 Some of the raw materials employed in Baxter’s production processes are derived from human and animal origins. Though great care is taken in assuring the safety of these raw materials, the nature of their origin elevates the potential for the introduction of pathogenic agents.  

 As is common in new technologies including biotechnology, the precision and accuracy of raw material specifications is less mature than in other industries. This can have a potential impact on the ability to produce product at the quality standards Baxter adheres to and within Baxter’s cost expectations.  

 2   

 Competition  

 Although no single company competes with Baxter in all of its businesses, Baxter faces competition in each of its segments from international and domestic healthcare and pharmaceutical companies of all sizes. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation. There has been consolidation in the company’s customer base and by its competitors, which continues to result in pricing and market share pressures.  

 Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. Governments around the world utilize various mechanisms to control healthcare expenditures, such as price controls, product formularies (lists of recommended or approved products), and competitive tenders which require the submission of a bid to sell products. Sales of Baxter’s products are dependent, in part, on the availability of reimbursement by government agencies and healthcare programs, as well as insurance companies and other private payers. Many state governments have adopted or proposed initiatives relating to Medicaid and other health programs that may limit reimbursement or increase rebates that Baxter and other providers are required to pay to the state. In addition to government regulation, managed care organizations in the United States, which include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, hospital and physician alliances and pharmacy benefit managers, continue to put pressure on the price and usage of healthcare products. Managed care organizations seek to contain healthcare expenditures, and their purchasing strength has been increasing due to their consolidation into fewer, larger organizations and a growing number of enrolled patients. Baxter faces similar issues outside of the United States. In Europe and some other markets, for example, the government provides healthcare at low cost to patients, and controls its expenditures by regulating prices or limiting reimbursement or patient access to certain products.  

 Baxter faces competition from global and regional companies both large and small in each of the markets in which it participates. BioScience continues to face competitors from pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies. Medication Delivery faces competition from medical device manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies particularly in the multi-source generics and anesthetics markets. In Renal, global and regional competitors continue to expand their manufacturing capacity for PD products and their PD sales and marketing channels.  

 Baxter’s Medication Delivery, BioScience and Renal businesses enjoy leading positions based on a number of competitive advantages. The Medication Delivery business benefits from the breadth and depth of its product offering, as well as strong relationships with customers, including hospitals, customer purchasing groups and pharmaceutical companies. The BioScience business benefits from a number of competitive advantages, such as continued innovation of products and services, consistency of its supply of products, and strong customer relationships. Baxter’s Renal business benefits from its position as one of the world’s leading manufacturer of PD products, as well as its strong relationships with customers and patients, including the many patients who self-administer the home-based therapy supplied by Baxter. Baxter also benefits from cost advantages as a result of shared manufacturing facilities and the technological advantages of its products.  

 Intellectual Property  

 Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to Baxter’s business. Baxter also relies on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and confidentiality agreements to develop, maintain and strengthen its competitive position. Baxter owns a number of patents and trademarks throughout the world and has entered into license arrangements relating to various third-party patents and technologies. Products manufactured by Baxter are sold primarily under its own trademarks and trade names. Some products distributed by the company are sold under the company’s trade names while others are sold under trade names owned by its suppliers. Trade secret protection of unpatented confidential and proprietary information is also important to Baxter. The company maintains certain details about its processes, products, and technology as trade secrets and generally requires employees, consultants, parties to collaboration agreements and other business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements.  

 Baxter’s policy is to protect its products and technology through patents and trademarks on a worldwide basis. This protection is sought in a manner that balances the cost of such protection against obtaining the  

 3   

 greatest value for the company. Baxter also recognizes the need to promote the enforcement of its patents and trademarks. Baxter will continue to take commercially reasonable steps to enforce its patents and trademarks around the world against potential infringers.  

 Baxter cannot assure that pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that patents issued or licensed will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, that Baxter patents will not be found to be invalid or that the intellectual property rights of others will not prevent the company from selling certain products or including key features in the company’s products.  

 Baxter operates in an industry susceptible to significant patent litigation. At any given time, the company generally is involved as either a plaintiff or defendant in a number of patent infringement and other intellectual-property related actions. Such litigation can result in significant royalty or other payments or result in injunctions that can prevent the sale of products.  

 Research and Development  

 Baxter’s investment in research and development is essential to its future growth. Accordingly, Baxter is increasing its investment in research and development programs to develop innovative products, systems and manufacturing methods. Expenditures for Baxter’s research and development activities were $760 million in 2007, $614 million in 2006 and $533 million in 2005. These expenditures include costs associated with research and development activities performed at the company’s research and development centers located around the world including facilities in Austria, Belgium, France, Japan and the United States, as well as in-licensing, milestone and reimbursement payments made to partners for research and development work performed at non-Baxter locations.  

 Principal areas of strategic focus for research and development include recombinant therapeutics, adult stem-cell therapy, plasma-based therapeutics, initiatives in regenerative medicine, small molecule drugs, enhanced packaging systems for medication delivery, kidney dialysis, drug formulation technologies and sterilization technologies. The company’s research efforts emphasize self-manufactured product development, and portions of that research relate to multiple product lines. Baxter supplements its own research and development efforts by acquiring various technologies and entering into development agreements with third parties. For example, Baxter is involved in partnerships with both Nektar Therapeutics and Lipoxen Technologies to leverage each company’s expertise in developing longer-acting Factor XIII and Factor IX therapies to reduce the frequency of injections required to treat blood-clotting disorders.  

 Baxter’s competitors will continue to introduce competitive products. The company’s research and development efforts are essential to remaining competitive in all three of its business segments. The development and acquisition of innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patients’ ease of use and cost-effectiveness are important to Baxter’s success. The success of new product offerings will depend on many factors, including the company’s ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, develop and manufacture products in an economical and timely manner, and differentiate its products from those of its competitors.  

 Quality Management  

 Baxter places significant emphasis on providing quality products and services to its customers. Quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects and improving the company’s products and services. Baxter has a network of quality systems throughout the company’s business units and facilities which relate to the design, development, manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of the company’s products. To assess and facilitate compliance with applicable requirements, the company regularly reviews its quality systems to determine their effectiveness and identify areas for improvement. Baxter also performs assessments of its suppliers of raw materials, components and finished goods. In addition, the company conducts quality management reviews designed to inform management of key issues that may affect the quality of products and services.  

 From time to time, the company may determine that products manufactured or marketed by the company do not meet company specifications, published standards, such as those issued by the International Standards  

 4   

 Organization, or regulatory requirements. When a quality issue is identified, Baxter investigates such issue and takes appropriate corrective action, such as withdrawal of the product from the market, correction of the product at the customer location, notice to the customer of revised labeling, and other actions. For more information on corrective actions taken by Baxter, please refer to our discussion under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” of Baxter’s Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2007.  

 Government Regulation  

 The operations of Baxter and many of the products manufactured or sold by the company are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental agencies, both within and outside the United States. In the United States, the federal agencies that regulate the company’s facilities, operations, employees, products (their manufacture, sale, import and export) and services include: the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Health & Safety Administration, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Labor, the Department of Defense, Customs and Border Protection, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Treasury and others. Because Baxter supplies products and services to healthcare providers that are reimbursed by federally funded programs such as Medicare, its activities are also subject to regulation by the Center for Medicare/Medicaid Services and enforcement by the Office of the Inspector General within the Department of Health and Human Services. State agencies also regulate the facilities, operations, employees, products and services of the company within their respective states. Government agencies outside the United States also regulate public health, product registration, manufacturing, environmental conditions, labor, exports, imports and other aspects of the company’s global operations.  

 The FDA in the United States, as well as other governmental agencies inside and outside of the United States, administer requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and advertising, distribution and post-market surveillance of Baxter’s products. The company must obtain specific approval from the FDA and non-U.S. regulatory authorities before it can market and sell most of its products in a particular country. Even after the company obtains regulatory approval to market a product, the product and the company’s manufacturing processes are subject to continued review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities.  

 The company is subject to possible administrative and legal actions by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Such actions may include product recalls, product seizures, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution, and other civil and criminal sanctions. From time to time, the company institutes compliance actions, such as removing products from the market that were found not to meet applicable requirements and improving the effectiveness of quality systems. For more information on compliance actions taken by the company, please refer to our discussion under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” of Baxter’s Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2007.  

 Environmental policies of the company require compliance with all applicable environmental regulations and contemplate, among other things, appropriate capital expenditures for environmental protection.  

 International Markets  

 Baxter generates more than 55% of its revenues outside the United States. While healthcare cost containment continues to be a focus around the world, demand for healthcare products and services continues to be strong worldwide, particularly in developing markets. The company’s strategies emphasize global expansion and technological innovation to advance medical care worldwide. International operations are subject to certain additional risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, such as changes in currency exchange rates, price and currency exchange controls, import restrictions, dependence on a few governmental entities as customers, loss of business in governmental tenders that are held annually in many cases, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental action, violations of U.S. or local laws as well as volatile economic, social and political conditions in certain countries.  

 5   

 Financial information about foreign and domestic operations is incorporated by reference from the section entitled “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 Segment Information” of Baxter’s Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2007.  

 Employees  

 As of December 31, 2007, Baxter employed approximately 46,000 people.  

 Available Information  

 Baxter makes available free of charge on its website at www.baxter.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

 In addition, Baxter’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, Global Business Practice Standards, and the written charters for the committees of Baxter’s Board of Directors are available on Baxter’s website at www.baxter.com under “Corporate Governance” and in print upon request by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Baxter International Inc., One Baxter Parkway, Deerfield, Illinois 60015.  

 Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the “Safe Harbor” Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  

 This annual report includes forward-looking statements, including accounting estimates and assumptions, litigation outcomes, statements with respect to infusion pumps and other regulatory matters, expectations with respect to restructuring programs (including expected cost savings), capital expenditures and acquisition activities, strategic plans, product mix, promotional efforts, geographic expansion, sales and pricing forecasts, business development and research and development activities, the divestiture of low margin businesses, future costs relating to the discontinuation of the manufacturing of HD instruments, developments with respect to credit and credit ratings (including the adequacy of credit facilities), interest expense in 2008, the settlement of cross-currency swap agreements, estimates of liabilities, statements regarding ongoing tax audits and tax provisions, deferred tax assets and future pension plan expense, management of currency risk, future indications for TISSEEL, statements regarding the company’s internal R&D pipeline, future capital and R&D expenditures, the sufficiency of the company’s financial flexibility and the adequacy of reserves, statements with respect to ongoing cash flows from the TT business, the effective tax rate in 2008, the adoption of SFAS Nos. 159 and 157, and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including assumptions concerning: demand for and market acceptance risks for new and existing products, such as ADVATE and IGIV, and other therapies; the company’s ability to identify business development and growth opportunities for existing products and to exit low margin businesses or products; fluctuations in the balance between supply and demand with respect to the market for plasma protein products; reimbursement policies of government agencies and private payers; product quality or patient safety issues, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, sanctions, seizures, litigation, or declining sales; future actions of regulatory bodies and other government authorities, including any sanctions available under the Consent Decree entered into with the FDA concerning the COLLEAGUE and SYNDEO pumps; product development risks including satisfactory clinical performance, the ability to manufacture at appropriate scale, and the general unpredictability associated with the product development cycle; the ability to enforce the company’s patent rights; patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company’s manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology; the impact of geographic and product mix on the company’s sales; the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies; inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors; the availability of acceptable raw materials and component supply; global regulatory, trade and tax policies; actions by tax authorities in connection with ongoing tax audits; the company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of restructuring initiatives; continued developments in the market for transfusion therapies products and Fenwal’s ability to execute with respect to the acquired business; foreign currency fluctuations;  

 6   

 change in credit agency ratings; and other factors identified elsewhere in this report and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those factors described below under the caption “Item 1A. Risk Factors” all of which are available on the company’s website.  

 Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.  

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors.