Item 1A.    Risk Factors.    

 In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer.  

 If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

 The successful and timely implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to changing technologies and introduce new products. The success of new product offerings will depend on many factors, including our ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, develop and manufacture products in an economic and timely manner, maintain advantageous positions with respect to intellectual property, and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. A failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 The development and acquisition of innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patients’ ease of use and cost-effectiveness are important to Baxter’s success and involve significant technical and business risks. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. Because the healthcare industry is characterized by rapid technological change, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential customers’ requirements. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers, license or acquire leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis.  

 If our business development activities are unsuccessful, our business could suffer and our financial performance could be adversely affected.  

 We are engaged in business development activities including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities. These activities may result in substantial investment of the company’s resources. Our success developing products from such activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to find suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance, whether we are able to establish an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that are satisfactory to us, the strength of the other company’s underlying technology, products and its ability to execute its business strategies, any intellectual property and litigation related to these products or technology, and our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company, business, product, technology or research into our existing operations including the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process research and development projects. If we are unsuccessful in our business development activities, we may be unable to meet our financial targets and we may be required to record asset impairment charges.  

 If we are unsuccessful in identifying growth opportunities or if we are unsuccessful in exiting low margin businesses or products, our business, financial condition and results could be adversely affected.  

 Successful execution of our business strategy depends, in part, on improving the profit margins we earn with respect to our current and future products. A failure to identify and take advantage of opportunities which allow us to increase our profit margins or a failure by us to exit low profit margin businesses or  

 7   

 terminate low profit margin products, may result in us failing to meet our financial targets and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 We are subject to a number of existing laws and regulations, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment.  

 As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous governmental agencies, both within and outside the United States. The impact of this on us is direct, to the extent we are subject to these laws and regulations, and indirect in that in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations.  

 The manufacture, distribution and marketing of our products are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA and other regulatory authorities both within and outside the United States. Any new product must undergo lengthy and rigorous clinical testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. We may elect to delay or cancel our anticipated regulatory submissions for new indications for our current or proposed new products for a number of reasons. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our products, which could adversely affect our sales.  

 We continue to address issues with our infusion pumps as discussed further under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis” of Baxter’s Annual Report to Shareholders for fiscal year 2007. There can be no assurance that we will resolve these pump issues without incurring additional charges or facing any of the sanctions available to the FDA under the Consent Decree entered into with the FDA concerning our infusion pumps. Third parties may file claims against us in connection with these pump issues. In addition, sales of these products may continue to be affected and sales of related products may be adversely affected if we do not adequately address these pump issues.  

 In addition, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that restricts our existing operations or our growth. The healthcare industry is likely to continue to undergo significant changes for the foreseeable future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the effect of possible future legislation and regulation.  

 If reimbursement for our current or future products is reduced or modified, our business could suffer.  

 Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payors. These healthcare management organizations and third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of healthcare costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been targeted in this effort. We also face challenges in certain foreign markets where the pricing and profitability of our products generally are subject to government controls. Accordingly, our current and potential products may not be considered cost effective, and reimbursement to the consumer may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change at any time, including in ways that are adverse to us. Any reduction in Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payor reimbursements could have a negative effect on our operating results.  

 8   

 If we are unable to obtain sufficient components and/or raw materials on a timely basis, our business may be adversely affected.  

 The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and materials. We manufacture our products in over 50 manufacturing facilities around the world. We acquire our components and materials from many suppliers in various countries. Efforts are made to diversify our sources of components and materials, however, in certain instances, we acquire components and materials from a sole supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply but we cannot guarantee these efforts will continue to be successful. In addition, due to the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for some components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost effective manner and our ability to make product sales.  

 Failure to provide quality products and services to our customers could have an adverse effect on our business and subject us to regulatory actions and costly litigation.  

 Our future operating results will depend on our ability to implement and improve our quality management program, and effectively train and manage our employee base with respect to quality management. Quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects and improving the company’s products and services. While Baxter has a network of quality systems throughout our business units and facilities, which relates to the design, development, manufacturing, packaging, sterilization, handling, distribution and labeling of our products, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our products. A quality or safety issue could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in product liability lawsuits, which could result in costly litigation, reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees.  

 Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

 There has been consolidation in our customer base, and by our competitors, which has resulted in pricing and sales pressures. As these consolidations occur, competition to provide products like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants including GPOs and IDNs will become greater. Customers will continue to work and organize to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. To the extent we are forced to reduce our prices, our business will become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses. The company’s sales could be adversely affected if any of its contracts with its GPOs or IDNs are terminated in part or in their entirety, or members decide to purchase from another supplier.  

 If we are unable to protect our patents or other proprietary rights or if we infringe upon the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged.  

 Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent rights, both in the United States and in other countries. The patent position of a healthcare company is often uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Significant litigation concerning patents and products is pervasive in our industry. Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and validity of our patents on products or processes as well as allegations that our products infringe patents held by competitors or other third parties. A loss in any of these types of cases could result in a loss of patent protection or the ability to market products, which could lead to a significant loss of sales, or otherwise materially affect future results of operations.  

 9   

 We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. While we protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not know, discover or develop independently equivalent proprietary information or techniques, that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs.  

 We face substantial competition and many of our competitors have significantly greater financial and other resources.  

 Although no single company competes with Baxter in all of its businesses, Baxter faces substantial competition in each of its segments, from international and domestic healthcare and pharmaceutical companies of all sizes. Competition is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation. Some competitors, principally large pharmaceutical companies, have greater financial, research and development and marketing resources than Baxter. Competition may increase further as additional companies begin to enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. Greater financial, research and development and marketing resources may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements that may render our products obsolete or non-competitive. If our competitors develop more effective or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do, our operations will likely be negatively affected.  

 We also face competition for marketing, distribution and collaborative development agreements, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to intellectual property. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations also may conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. If we are unable to successfully compete with these companies and institutions our business may suffer.  

 We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally.  

 Our operations, both within and outside the United States, are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. These risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, nationalization, expropriation and other governmental actions, importation limitations, violations of U.S. or local laws, dependence on a few governmental entities as customers, loss of business in governmental tenders that are held annually in many cases, pricing restrictions, economic destabilization, instability, disruption or destruction in a significant geographic region — due to the location of manufacturing facilities, distribution facilities or customers — regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest, or natural or man-made disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease.  

  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.    

 None.  

  Item 2.    Properties.