PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Description of Business  

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with $26.2 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration and $1.4 trillion in assets under management as of Dec. 31, 2012. For a discussion of our reporting of our assets under custody and/or administration, see “General – Reporting of Assets under Custody and/or Administration” in the MD&A section of our Annual Report.  

We divide our businesses into two principal segments, Investment Management and Investment Services. We have an Other segment, which includes credit-related services, the leasing portfolio, corporate treasury activities (including our investment securities portfolio), our equity investment in Wing Hang Bank Limited, our equity interest in ConvergEx Group, business exits and corporate overhead.  

For a further discussion of BNY Mellon’s products and services, see the “Overview”, “Summary of financial results”, “Fee and other revenue – Foreign exchange and other trading revenue”, “Review of businesses” and “International operations” sections in the MD&A section in the Annual Report and Notes 25 and 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. See “Available Information” on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

We were formed as a bank holding company (“BHC”) and have our executive offices in New York, New York. With its subsidiaries, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784.  

On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. and Mellon Financial Corporation (“Mellon Financial”) merged into BNY Mellon, with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity (the “merger”).  

Our two principal banks are:  

   •    The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state chartered bank, which houses our Investment Services businesses, including Asset 

       Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services as well as the bank-advised business of Asset Management.  

   •    BNY Mellon, National Association (“BNY Mellon, N.A.”), a nationally-chartered bank, which houses our Wealth Management business.  

Our two principal U.S. banks engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities.  

We have four other U.S. bank and/or trust companies concentrating on trust products and services across the United States: The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, BNY Mellon Investment Servicing Trust Company and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. Most of our asset management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon.  

Each of our bank and trust companies are subject to regulation by the applicable banking regulatory authority. The deposits of our U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the extent provided by law.  

BNY Mellon’s branches and subsidiaries outside the United States are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulatory authorities in addition to the Federal Reserve. The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV (“BNYMSA”) is the main banking subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon in continental Europe. It is authorized and regulated as a credit institution by the National Bank of Belgium. BNYMSA has its principal office in Brussels and branches in Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Frankfurt, Germany; London, England; the City of Luxembourg, Luxembourg and Paris, France. BNYMSA’s activities are in the Investment Services segment of BNY Mellon with a focus on global custody, asset servicing and collateral management. For additional discussion, see the “MD&A – Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report.  

Information on international operations is presented in the “Net interest revenue”, “Income tax”, “Review of businesses”, “International operations”, “Consolidated balance sheet review” sections in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, Notes 5, 6 and 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

4 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

 Statements in the Annual Report and in “Risk Factors – We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating globally and which may adversely affect our business”, in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

Primary Subsidiaries  

Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon’s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2012.  

Discontinued Operations  

As discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, BNY Mellon reported results using the discontinued operations method of accounting for 2010. All information in this Form 10-K for 2010, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless otherwise noted.  

Supervision and Regulation  

Information on BNY Mellon’s supervision and regulation obligations can be found in the “MD&A – Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report. That information is incorporated into this item by reference.  

Competition  

BNY Mellon is subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Investment Management business competes with asset management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms, and insurance companies. We may compete with these firms and companies domestically or internationally. Our Investment Services business competes with domestic and foreign financial services firms that offer custody services, corporate trust services, clearing services, collateral services, credit services, securities brokerage, foreign exchange services, derivatives services, depositary receipt services, transfer agent services and cash management services and related products, as well as a wide range of technology service providers, such as financial service data processing firms. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, 

 interest rates, lending limits and customer convenience.  

Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the “MD&A – Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.  

In recent years there has been substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry. Many broad-based financial services firms now have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage and asset management, which may enhance their competitive position.  

As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to being able to implement this. For additional discussion regarding competition, see “MD&A – Risk Factors – We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability” in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Employees  

At Dec. 31, 2012, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 49,500 employees. 

BNY Mellon 5  

Table of Contents 

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies  

The SEC’s disclosure rules relating to the MD&A require that the following statistical disclosures specified in the Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Exchange Act Industry Guide 3 (together, “Guide 3”) be made in annual reports on Form 10-K filed by BHCs.  

 I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Supplemental information – Rate/volume analysis” sections in the MD&A and in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 II. Investment Portfolio  

 A. Book Value of Investments;  

 B. Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and,  

 C. Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceed 10% of Stockholders’ Equity  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Investment securities” sections in the MD&A and in Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 III. Loan Portfolio  

 A. Types of Loans and  

 B. Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates  

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” section in the MD&A and Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 C. Risk Elements and  

 D. Other Interest-bearing Assets 

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” and “– Nonperforming assets” and “International operations – Cross-border risk”, “– Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Greece” sections in the MD&A and Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Critical accounting estimates – Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments” section in the MD&A, which portion is incorporated herein by reference, and below.  

When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged off. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the “Asset quality and allowance for credit losses” section in the MD&A in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management’s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the “Risk management – Credit risk” and “Critical accounting estimates” sections in the MD&A, Notes 1 and 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 V. Deposits  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Deposits” sections in the MD&A and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

 VI. Return on Equity and Assets  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Financial summary” section, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

 VII. Short-Term Borrowings 

6 BNY Mellon  

Table of Contents 

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Short-term borrowings” section in the MD&A, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.  

Replacement Capital Covenants  

On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with its issuance of £200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.369% junior subordinated deferrable interest debt securities due 2066 (the “Junior Subordinated Debt Securities”) to Mellon Capital III (the “2006 Trust”) and the issuance by the 2006 Trust of £200,000,000 aggregate liquidation amount of its 6.369% trust preferred securities (the “Preferred Securities”). Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligations under this Replacement Capital Covenant, and BNY Mellon amended this Replacement Capital Covenant on Sept. 11, 2012. In this section, we refer to this Replacement Capital Covenant as so amended as the “2006 RCC” and to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities collectively as the “2006 Securities”.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the 2006 RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt”, that on or before Sept. 5, 2056:  

   •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the 2006 Securities, with limited exceptions, unless:  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines applicable to BHCs; and  

   •    the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received since Sept. 11, 2012 from issuance of other securities specified in the 2006 RCC that, generally described, based on the standards in effect at the time the 2006 RCC was originally adopted would have been expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than 

       the equity credit attributed to the 2006 Securities based on such standards at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and  

   •    BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the 2006 Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the 2006 RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.  

On June 19, 2007, Mellon Financial entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant in connection with (i) the issuance by Mellon Capital IV (the “2007 Trust”) of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or “Normal PCS” (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the “PCS”), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate and (ii) the issuance by Mellon Financial to the 2007 Trust of $500,000,000 of its 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes, or “Junior Notes”, and a 1/100th interest in a Stock Purchase Contract under which the 2007 Trust was obligated to purchase, and Mellon Financial was obligated to sell, one share of Mellon Financial’s Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series L, $100,000 liquidation preference per share, which, pursuant to the merger, became an obligation to purchase Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, $1,000 liquidation preference per share, of BNY Mellon (the “Preferred Stock”). The 2007 Trust sold the Junior Notes in a remarketing on May 21, 2012 and purchased the Preferred Stock on June 20, 2012. Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon Financial’s obligation under this Replacement Capital Covenant, and BNY Mellon amended this Replacement Capital Covenant on May 8 and Sept. 11, 2012. In this section, we refer to this Replacement Capital Covenant as so amended as the “2007 RCC”, to the 2006 RCC and the 2007 RCC collectively as the “RCCs” and to the Preferred Stock and the PCS collectively as the “2007 Securities”.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, 

BNY Mellon 7  

Table of Contents 

 called “Covered Debt”, that on or before the “Termination Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2022):  

   •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless:  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines applicable to BHCs; and  

   •    the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received since Sept. 11, 2012 from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on the standards in effect at the time the 2007 RCC was originally adopted would have been expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt under the RCCs as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series and (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date. Each RCC includes provisions under which BNY Mellon will then identify a new series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed to become the Covered Debt benefiting from such RCC.  

The full text of each RCC, as amended and restated, are filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Form 10-K. The description of each RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS