ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

 The following information concerning our results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with Business in Item 1 and our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.   

 IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K (including information incorporated by reference) includes and references “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements relate to, among other things, expectations regarding refining margins, revenues, cash flows, capital expenditures, turnaround expenses, and other financial items. These statements also relate to our business strategy, goals and expectations concerning our market position, future operations, margins and profitability. We have used the words “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “intend”, “may”, “plan”, “predict”, “project”, “will”, “would” and similar terms and phrases to identify forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which speak only as of the date the statements were made.  

 Although we believe the assumptions upon which these forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, any of these assumptions could prove to be inaccurate and the forward-looking statements based on these assumptions could be incorrect.  

 The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results and trends to differ materially from those made, projected, or implied in or by the forward-looking statements depending on a variety of uncertainties or other factors including, but not limited to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 26   
 Many of these factors, as well as other factors, are described in greater detail in “Competition” on page 11 and “Risk Factors” on page 18. All future written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the previous statements. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to update any information contained herein or to publicly release the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or that we become aware of, after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

 BUSINESS STRATEGY AND OVERVIEW   

 Strategy and Goals  

 Our strategy in our refining and marketing business is to create stockholder value in a global market with competitive returns in any economic environment through:  

    •   operating our facilities in a safe, reliable and environmentally responsible way;   

    •   achieving greater operational and administrative efficiencies; and   

    •   using cash flows from operations to create further shareholder value.    

 Beginning in late 2007, in response to declining refined product demand and refining industry margins, we began implementing initiatives to operate in a lower margin environment. During 2009, our goals were focused on lowering break-even costs, gaining sustainable improvements in our capture of available margins and funding our capital program through operating cash flow. Relative to these goals, we achieved the following during 2009:  

    •   improved our margin capture approximately $370 million through various non-capital initiatives including crude oil and feedstock optimization, product realization and refinery yield improvements;   

    •   reduced our throughput and inventory to better match lower consumer demand;     

    •   improved our cash balance $393 million by decreasing inventories 4 million barrels, reducing our capital spending $59 million from a budget of $460 million by adjusting project costs, scope and timing, and issuing $300 million of senior notes; and   

    •   funded our 2009 capital spending of $401 million through cash flows from operations of $663 million.    

 We expect the industry fundamentals in 2009, namely lower refined product demand and excess refining capacity, will persist through 2010. Consequently, we have developed a three year value creation plan designed to optimize our cash flows from operations by:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We have identified approximately 300 high return capital projects that we can implement quickly to improve our economic position and create incremental shareholder value in the current low margin environment. These projects focus on lowering our feedstock costs, improving clean product yields and reducing operating costs, including improving energy efficiency at all of our refineries. The average cost per project for the majority of these projects is less than $1 million. We plan to spend approximately $70 million in 2010 for these projects.  

 Industry Overview  

 Our profitability is heavily influenced by the cost of crude oil and the aggregate value of the products we make from that crude oil. Product values and crude oil costs are set by the market and are outside of the control of any refiner. Indexed models have been developed to meaningfully present the difference between these two values at an industry level; these “industry refining margins” provide benchmarks against which the performance of individual refiners can be evaluated.   

 27   
 The effects of the current economic recession, particularly the highest unemployment rate since 1983, continued to negatively impact domestic refined product demand and drive up corresponding inventories. This weak demand and high inventory levels, combined with rising crude oil prices, weakened industry refining margins during 2009. Margins were further compromised by new global refining capacity and the increased supply of ethanol in the gasoline market.  

 Prices for crude oil, in this case West Texas Intermediate, increased approximately 75% during 2009, from an average of $43 per barrel during the first quarter to an average of $76 per barrel during the fourth quarter. This increase is attributed primarily to increased demand in the Far East. Product values did not increase at a corresponding rate, however, due to poor demand and excess inventory. Average U.S. West Coast benchmark gasoline prices increased only 33% and diesel fuel prices increased only 48% from the first quarter to the fourth quarter of 2009.  

 Weak product demand drove U.S. diesel fuel and jet fuel inventories to their highest levels since 1983. U.S. West Coast benchmark diesel margins averaged $9 per barrel during 2009, compared to $24 per barrel during 2008. U.S. demand for gasoline averaged near or below its five-year average during 2009, and gasoline inventories exceeded five-year high levels during the fourth quarter. Although several refineries in the U.S. were temporarily idled or permanently shut down during 2009, decreased demand more than offset production losses and even drove down product imports. Refinery utilization fell to 83% during 2009, the lowest level since 1985.  

 Narrowing differentials between heavy and light crude oil prices also negatively impacted industry refining margins during 2009. For example, Oriente crude (a South American heavy crude oil) traded for $7 per barrel below Alaska North Slope crude (a light crude oil) compared to $13 per barrel last year. Price differentials for heavy crude oil were reduced due in part to a lower supply of heavy crude oils from Venezuela, Mexico and the Middle East and higher demand for heavy crude oil in China and India.  

 Outlook  

 While there have recently been signs of improvement in the U.S. economy, the current global economic slowdown and high unemployment in the U.S. are expected to continue to negatively impact demand for refined products. The impact of reduced demand has been compounded by excess global refining capacity and historically high inventory levels. These conditions have continued to put significant pressure on refined product margins in January and February 2010. Until the economy recovers and unemployment declines, we expect margins to be negatively impacted.  

 As a result of the falling demand and excess refining capacity, several refineries in North America have been or are planned to be temporarily or permanently shutdown. We are currently monitoring, and will continue to monitor, all of our refineries to assess whether a complete or partial shutdown of one or more of the facilities is appropriate until market conditions improve.  

 In addition to the current market conditions, there are long-term factors that may impact the supply and demand of refined products in the U.S. These factors include the increased mileage standards for vehicles, the mandated renewable fuels standards, proposed climate change legislation, the EPA proposal to regulate greenhouse gases emissions under the Clean Air Act and competing refineries being built overseas.  

 Global Financial Markets  

 We continue to remain attentive to current financial market conditions, including limited credit availability, even as we continue to see global financial markets improve. While our ability to finance operations has not been impaired, there can be no assurance that there will not be a further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in major economies that could negatively impact us.   

 28   
 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

 A discussion and analysis of the factors contributing to our results of operations is presented below. The accompanying consolidated financial statements in Item 8, together with the following information, are intended to provide investors with a reasonable basis for assessing our historical operations, but should not serve as the only criteria for predicting our future performance. Our results include the operations of our Los Angeles refinery and Shell and USA Gasoline retail stations since acquisition in May 2007.  

 Summary  

 Our net loss in 2009 was $140 million ($1.01 per diluted share) compared with net earnings of $278 million ($2.00 per diluted share) in 2008. The decrease in net earnings of $3.01 per diluted share was due primarily to the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decrease in net earnings during 2009 relative to 2008 was partially offset by the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our net earnings for 2008 declined to $278 million ($2.00 per diluted share) from $566 million ($4.06 per diluted share) in 2007. The decline in net earnings of $2.06 per diluted share was due primarily to the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The decrease in net earnings during 2008 relative to 2007 was partially offset by the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 29   
 Refining Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 30   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Losses associated with our derivative instruments have been reclassified from “Revenues” (included in “Crude oil resales and other” in the table above) to “Costs of sales and operating expenses” in our statements of consolidated operations for all periods presented. Our derivative losses totaled $107 million and $61 million for the year ended 2008 and 2007, respectively. Refined products revenues include intersegment sales to our retail segment, at prices which approximate market of $2.7 billion, $3.9 billion and $2.8 billion in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

  (b)    Volumes for 2007 include amounts for the Los Angeles refinery since acquisition in May 2007, averaged over the periods presented. Throughput and yield averaged over 365 days since acquisition in 2007 were 68 Mbpd and 73 Mbpd, respectively. Throughput and yield averaged over the 235 days of operation in 2007 were 106 Mbpd and 114 Mbpd, respectively.  

  (c)    We define heavy crude oil as crude oil with an American Petroleum Institute gravity of 24 degrees or less.  

  (d)    Management uses gross refining margin per barrel to evaluate performance and compare profitability to other companies in the industry. Gross refining margin per barrel is calculated by dividing gross refining margin by total refining throughput and may not be calculated similarly by other companies. Gross refining margin is calculated as revenues less costs of feedstocks, purchased refined products, transportation and distribution.      

 31   
     Management uses manufacturing costs per barrel to evaluate the efficiency of refinery operations. Manufacturing costs per barrel is calculated by dividing manufacturing costs by total refining throughput and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Investors and analysts use these financial measures to help analyze and compare companies in the industry on the basis of operating performance. These financial measures should not be considered alternatives to segment operating income, revenues, costs of sales and operating expenses or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  

  (e)    Consolidated gross refining margin totals gross refining margin for each of our regions adjusted for other costs not directly attributable to a specific region. Gross refining margin includes the effect of intersegment sales to the retail segment at prices which approximate market. Gross refining margin approximates total refining throughput times gross refining margin per barrel.  

  (f)    Includes manufacturing depreciation and amortization per throughput barrel of approximately $1.69, $1.40 and $1.37 for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

  (g)    Includes a $43 million goodwill impairment charge in 2009.  

  (h)    Sources of total refined product sales included refined products manufactured at the refineries and refined products purchased from third parties. Total refined product sales margin includes margins on sales of manufactured and purchased refined products.  

  (i)    We experienced reduced throughput due to scheduled turnarounds at the Alaska and Golden Eagle refineries during the 2009 second quarter, scheduled maintenance at the Washington refinery during the 2009 first quarter, and scheduled turnarounds at the Golden Eagle refinery during the 2008 first and second quarters and at the Washington refinery during the 2008 first quarter. During 2007, we experienced reduced throughput due to scheduled turnarounds at the Los Angeles, Golden Eagle, and Utah refineries.   

 2009 Compared to 2008  

 Overview. Operating income for our refining segment decreased by $572 million during 2009. The decrease primarily reflects a lower gross refining margin partially offset by lower operating expenses of $149 million. The impact of a lower per barrel gross refining margin decreased total gross refining margins by $723 million during the year. Operating income included a goodwill impairment charge at our Washington refinery of $43 million during 2009 and a charge of $91 million during 2008 to write-off a receivable for which collection was deemed unlikely. Our operating income in both periods benefited from a reduction in costs of sales by decreasing LIFO inventory layers acquired at lower per-barrel costs. These inventory reductions resulted in operating income improvements of $69 million during 2009 and $138 million during 2008.  

 Gross Refining Margins. Our gross refining margin per barrel decreased 23% to $8.90 per barrel in 2009 due to significantly lower industry diesel fuel and jet fuel margins, partially offset by higher industry margins for gasoline and heavy products. The decrease in industry diesel fuel margins throughout 2009 reflects lower global demand and significantly higher U.S. inventories. Industry gasoline margins on the U.S. West Coast improved in 2009 as compared to 2008 primarily due to heavy industry downtime during the 2009 first quarter, unscheduled industry downtime during the 2009 third quarter and lower average gasoline inventories. We also benefited from lower differentials on heavy products, such as fuel oil. Fuel oil prices averaged approximately 93% of the Alaska North Slope (“ANS”) crude oil price during 2009 versus approximately 84% during 2008. Our California region was negatively impacted by a reduction of price differentials between heavy and light crude oils that reduced gross refining margin during 2009. Our California refineries run a high proportion of heavy crude oils (66% of total refining throughput during 2009). See “Industry Overview” for additional information on the decrease in industry refining margins during 2009.  

 We periodically use derivative instruments to primarily manage exposure to commodity price risks associated with the purchase or sale of crude oil and finished products. We may also use derivative instruments to manage price risks associated with inventories above or below our target levels. Gains or losses associated with our derivative instruments are included in gross refining margin. Our losses totaled $68 million during 2009 versus $107 million during 2008. The decrease in our losses reflects the impact of changing our hedging strategy. During the 2008 second quarter, we closed the majority of our crude oil derivative positions associated with our long-haul strategy that matched the price of long haul crude oils to crude oil prices at the day of processing. We continue to monitor our hedging strategy in 2010.   

 32   
 Refining Throughput. Total refining throughput declined 46 thousand barrels per day (“Mbpd”) during 2009 primarily due to matching production to lower demand and the following:  

    •   a refinery-wide turnaround and other unscheduled downtime at the Alaska refinery during the 2009 second quarter;   

    •   a refinery-wide shutdown for repair of the crude tower at the Washington refinery from mid-January to mid-February 2009;   

    •   unscheduled maintenance of the delayed coker and hydrocracker at the Golden Eagle refinery during the 2009 third quarter and a turnaround of the hydrocracker at the Golden Eagle refinery in the 2009 second quarter; and   

    •   unscheduled downtime of the delayed coker at the Los Angeles refinery primarily during the 2009 fourth quarter.    

 Total refining throughput during 2008 was impacted by turnarounds at our Golden Eagle and Washington refineries.  

 Refined Products Sales. Revenues from sales of refined products decreased 41% to $15.7 billion in 2009 as compared to 2008, primarily due to significantly lower average refined product sales prices and lower refined product sales volumes. Our average product sales price decreased 36% to $72.17 per barrel in 2009 reflecting lower product demand and lower average crude oil prices. Total refined product sales decreased by 9% or 60 Mbpd from 2008, primarily reflecting lower product demand.  

 Costs of Sales and Expenses. Our average costs of sales decreased 37% to $64.93 per barrel during 2009 reflecting significantly lower average crude oil prices. Manufacturing and other operating expenses decreased to $1.3 billion in 2009, compared to $1.4 billion in 2008, primarily reflecting lower natural gas utility costs and refining throughput. Depreciation and amortization increased by $33 million during 2009 reflecting the completion of several capital projects during 2008, including the $600 million delayed coker unit at the Golden Eagle refinery. The decrease in selling, general and administrative costs of $95 million from 2008 is due to a $91 million charge to write-off a receivable a year ago. The increase in loss on asset disposals and impairments primarily reflects a goodwill impairment of $43 million and a net termination charge of $12 million related to cancelling the purchase of equipment associated with a capital project at our Los Angeles refinery. The equipment purchase was cancelled as we reevaluated the scope and timing of the project.  

 2008 Compared to 2007  

 Overview. Operating income for our refining segment decreased by $561 million during 2008 primarily due to a lower gross refining margin and increased operating expenses. A lower per barrel gross refining margin reduced our total gross refining margins by $256 million during 2008. Operating income in 2008 included a $91 million charge to write-off a receivable and a LIFO liquidation benefit of $138 million. The LIFO liquidation resulted from a reduction in petroleum inventories by decreasing LIFO layers acquired at lower per-barrel costs.  

 Gross Refining Margins. Our gross refining margin per barrel decreased 10% to $11.50 per barrel in 2008, reflecting significantly lower industry gasoline margins. U.S. West Coast benchmark gasoline margins were down from an average of $24 per barrel in 2007 to an average of $12 per barrel in 2008 as a result of rapidly rising crude oil prices during the first half of 2008 and weakening product demand. During the second half of 2008, however, crude oil prices declined primarily due to declining global crude oil demand. The rapid decline in crude oil prices resulted in slightly improved refining margins during the last six months of 2008 versus the prior year as product prices declined more gradually. Weaker industry gasoline margins were partially offset by higher diesel fuel margins in 2008 reflecting strong global demand and low inventories. Industry margins were higher in 2007 due to robust market fundamentals during the first half of the year, including strong demand for refined products, low refinery utilization, low products inventories and the introduction of new lower sulfur requirements for non-road diesel fuel which began in June 2007. Heavy industry turnaround activity and unscheduled downtime on the U.S. West Coast benefited our gross refining margins during the first half of 2007. Our gross refining margin was also negatively impacted during 2008 due to the rapid increase in crude oil prices during the first half of 2008 resulting in increased losses on our derivative positions of $46 million year over year.   

 33   
 Refining Throughput. During both 2008 and 2007, total refining throughput averaged 595 Mbpd. Excluding the Los Angeles refinery (acquired in May 2007), throughput decreased by 37 Mbpd primarily reflecting throughput reductions at our Alaska, Hawaii and Washington refineries to match production to demand and a turnaround of five major units at our Golden Eagle refinery from mid-March through April 2008 and a turnaround of the fluid catalytic cracker and alkylation units at our Washington refinery from late January to mid-February. During 2007, total refining throughput was reduced by scheduled turnarounds at our Los Angeles, Golden Eagle and Utah refineries and unscheduled downtime at our Golden Eagle and Washington refineries.  

 Refined Product Sales. Revenues from sales of refined products increased 28% to $26.8 billion in 2008 as compared to 2007, primarily due to significantly higher average refined product sales prices and increased refined product sales volumes. Our average refined product sales price increased 25% to $112.06 per barrel in 2008, as higher average crude oil prices put upward pressure on product prices. Total refined product sales volumes increased reflecting additional sales volumes from operating our Los Angeles refinery for a full year in 2008. Excluding the Los Angeles refinery, total refined product sales volumes decreased by 55 Mbpd reflecting declining product demand.  

 Costs of Sales and Expenses. Our average costs of sales increased 31% to $102.37 per barrel during 2008, reflecting the significant increase in average crude oil prices during the year. Manufacturing and other operating expenses increased to $1.4 billion in 2008, compared with $1.2 billion in 2007, with $110 million of the increase incurred by the Los Angeles refinery. The remaining increase of $98 million primarily reflects higher utility costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $84 million as a result of a $91 million charge to write-off a receivable.   

 34   
 Retail Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Management uses fuel margin per gallon to compare profitability to other companies in the industry. Fuel margin per gallon is calculated by dividing fuel gross margin by fuel sales volumes and may not be calculated similarly by other companies. Investors and analysts use fuel margin per gallon to help analyze and compare companies in the industry on the basis of operating performance. This financial measure should not be considered as an alternative to segment operating income and revenues or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

  (b)    Includes the effect of intersegment purchases from our refining segment at prices which approximate market.  

  (c)    Includes impairment charges during 2008 related to the closure of 42 Mirastar retail stations and a potential sale of 20 retail stations.   

 2009 Compared to 2008  

 Operating income for our retail segment increased $37 million during 2009 as compared to 2008 reflecting lower expenses partially offset by lower gross margins. Operating income during 2008 included impairment charges of $29 million related to closing 42 Mirastar retail stations and a write-down of 20 other retail stations associated with a potential sale. Total gross margins decreased to $350 million in 2009 from $364 million in 2008, reflecting    

 35   
 lower sales volumes due to lower gasoline demand and a lower average retail station count. The decrease in average retail station count from 2008 reflects closing the 42 Mirastar retail stations.  

 Revenues on fuel sales decreased to $3.0 billion in 2009, from $4.2 billion in 2008, reflecting significantly lower sales prices and decreased fuel sales volumes. Costs of sales decreased from 2008 due to lower prices for purchased fuel. Our other expenses, excluding the loss on asset disposals and impairments, decreased by $25 million to $264 million during 2009 as compared to 2008 reflecting a lower average retail station count.  

 2008 Compared to 2007  

 Operating income for our retail segment was $46 million in 2008, compared to an operating loss of $8 million in 2007. The 2008 results included impairment charges of $29 million. Total gross margins increased to $364 million in 2008 from $233 million in 2007, reflecting significantly increased fuel sales volumes combined with higher fuel margin per gallon. Total gallons sold increased to 1.4 billion gallons from 1.1 billion gallons in 2007, primarily reflecting additional volumes from the Shell and USA Gasoline retail stations acquired in May 2007. Fuel margin increased to $0.21 per gallon in 2008 from $0.15 per gallon in 2007, primarily reflecting retail prices lagging the rapid decrease in crude oil prices during the last half of 2008. Our Shell and USA Gasoline retail stations contributed additional gross margins of $96 million and additional fuel sales of 266 million gallons during 2008 reflecting operation for a full year in 2008. Excluding the acquired retail stations, total gross margins increased by $36 million and fuel sales volumes remained flat in 2008 as compared to 2007. The decrease in our retail station count at December 31, 2008 was due to closing 42 Mirastar retail stations, partially offset by our strategy to grow our branded jobber/dealer presence in the Mid-Continent region and on the U.S. West Coast.  

 Revenues on fuel sales increased to $4.2 billion in 2008, from $2.9 billion in 2007, reflecting significantly higher sales volumes and increased average sales prices. Excluding the acquired retail stations, revenues on fuel sales increased $191 million primarily due to higher average product sales prices. Costs of sales increased in 2008 due to increased sales volumes and higher average prices for purchased fuel. Operating expenses increased by $34 million during 2008 as compared to 2007. Shell and USA Gasoline retail stations contributed $40 million in additional operating expenses in 2008. Higher depreciation and amortization reflects operating the Shell and USA Gasoline retail stations for a full year in 2008. The loss on asset disposals and impairments increased by $22 million during 2008 primarily reflecting closing 42 Mirastar retail stations and a write down for the potential sale of 20 retail stations.  

 Consolidated Results of Operations  

 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $221 million for 2009 compared to $325 million in 2008 and $263 million in 2007. The decrease during 2009 primarily reflects a charge of $91 million in 2008 to write-off a receivable for which collection was deemed unlikely. Excluding the receivable charge, selling, general and administrative expenses during 2008 as compared to 2007 decreased by $29 million primarily due to lower stock-based and incentive compensation costs of $53 million, partially offset by higher employee costs of $19 million. Stock-based compensation for our stock appreciation rights and phantom stock options was lower due to our declining stock price in 2008. Our stock appreciation rights and phantom stock options are revalued to fair value at the end of each reporting period.  

 Interest and Financing Costs  

 Interest and financing costs were $130 million in 2009 compared to $111 million in 2008 and $91 million in 2007. The increase in 2009 reflects the issuance of our $300 million senior notes in June 2009 partially offset by lower outstanding revolver borrowings. The increase in 2008 over 2007 reflects the additional debt we incurred in May 2007 to finance acquisitions.  

 Other Income  

 Other income totaled $50 million in 2008 reflecting refunds received from owners of the Trans Alaska Pipeline System in connection with rulings by the Regulatory Commission of Alaska concerning our protest of intrastate pipeline rates. We did not earn other income during 2009 or 2007.   

 36   
 Income Tax Provision  

 The income tax benefit amounted to $48 million in 2009 compared to a provision of $151 million in 2008 and $339 million in 2007. The combined federal and state effective income tax rates were 26%, 35% and 37% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The 2009 tax rate was lower primarily due to a $43 million impairment of goodwill for which there was no corresponding tax basis. The 2008 tax rate benefited from the favorable settlement of federal tax audits for the years 1996 through 2005.   

 CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY   

 Overview  

 We operate in an environment where our capital resources and liquidity are impacted by changes in the price of crude oil and refined products, availability of trade credit, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer demand for transportation fuels, weather conditions, fluctuations in seasonal demand, governmental regulations, geo-political conditions and overall market and global economic conditions. See “Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page 26 for further information related to risks and other factors. Future capital expenditures, as well as borrowings under our credit agreement and other sources of capital, may be affected by these conditions.  

 Our primary sources of liquidity have been cash flows from operations and borrowing availability under revolving lines of credit. We ended 2009 with $413 million of cash and cash equivalents, no borrowings under our revolver, and approximately $1.1 billion in available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement after $665 million in outstanding letters of credit. At December 31, 2009, we also had three separate letter of credit agreements with a total capacity of $500 million, of which we had $168 million available after $332 million in outstanding letters of credit. Our total capacity of $1.81 billion under the credit agreement can be increased up to a total capacity of $1.95 billion. We can also increase capacity under our separate letter of credit agreements. Our available borrowing capacity under the credit agreement was temporarily reduced as of February 28, 2010 as the standard reserve, as defined, increased from $50 million to $260 million as a result of not meeting the fixed charge coverage ratio. Based on the fixed charge coverage ratio, our total capacity as of February 28, 2010 was $1.3 billion before outstanding letters of credit of $711 million. The amount of available borrowing capacity fluctuates and is based on a periodically adjusted borrowing base consisting of our eligible cash and cash equivalents, receivables and petroleum inventories, net of the standard reserve.  

 In June 2009, we issued $300 million aggregate principal amount of 93/4% senior notes due 2019 for general corporate purposes. Excluding proceeds from the notes issuance, we increased our cash position by $111 million at December 31, 2009 from a year ago. We believe available capital resources will be adequate to meet our capital expenditure, working capital and debt service requirements. Due to the current unfavorable economic conditions in the refining industry, we continue to focus on our available cash through the management of working capital, capital expenditures and operating expenses. However, if industry refining margins were to remain depressed for an extended period of time, we may be required to materially alter our operations which could include deferring capital expenditures, selling assets or temporarily idling one or more of our refineries. We may also seek to increase our available cash through the capital markets.  

 In February 2010, we suspended our quarterly cash dividend indefinitely to preserve cash and maintain a strong balance sheet as we expect further refining margin volatility. This action also provides us flexibility to allocate capital to our quick return capital projects which we believe will deliver the highest shareholder return in a low margin environment. During 2009, we paid cash dividends on common stock of $0.35 per share totaling $49 million.  

 Our $300 million 93/4% senior notes were issued at 96.172% of face value at an effective interest rate of 10.375%. The notes have a ten-year maturity with no sinking fund requirements and are subject to optional redemption by Tesoro beginning June 1, 2014 at premiums of 4.875% through May 31, 2015, 3.25% from June 1, 2015 through May 31, 2016; 1.625% from June 1, 2016 through May 31, 2017; and at par thereafter. We have the right to redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount at 109.75% of face value with proceeds from certain equity issuances through June 1, 2012. The indenture for the notes contains covenants and restrictions that are customary for notes of this nature. Substantially all of these covenants will terminate before the notes mature if one of two specified ratings agencies assigns the notes an investment grade rating and no events of default exist under the indenture. The    

 37   
 terminated covenants will not be restored even if the credit rating assigned to the notes subsequently falls below investment grade. The notes are unsecured and are guaranteed by substantially all of our domestic subsidiaries.  

 Capitalization  

 Our capital structure at December 31, 2009 was comprised of (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 At December 31, 2009, our debt to capitalization ratio was 37%, compared to 33% at year-end 2008, reflecting the issuance of our $300 million senior notes during 2009 and a net loss of $140 million in 2009.  

 Our credit agreement and senior notes impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could potentially limit our ability to respond to market conditions, raise additional debt or equity capital, pay cash dividends, or repurchase stock. The indentures for our senior notes contain covenants and restrictions which are customary for notes of this nature. These covenants and restrictions limit, among other things, our ability to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The indentures also limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make certain payments and distributions.  

 Credit Agreement — Revolving Credit Facility  

 In February 2010 and May 2009, we amended our credit agreement, which among other things, modified the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 38   
 At December 31, 2009, our credit agreement provided for borrowings (including letters of credit) up to the lesser of the amount of a periodically adjusted borrowing base of approximately $2.0 billion (based upon an Alaska North Slope crude oil price of $80 per barrel), consisting of Tesoro’s eligible cash and cash equivalents, receivables and petroleum inventories, net of the standard reserve as defined, or the agreement’s total capacity of $1.81 billion. The capacity can be further increased up to $1.95 billion. As of December 31, 2009, we had no borrowings and $665 million in letters of credit outstanding under the credit agreement, resulting in total unused credit availability of $1.14 billion or 63% of the eligible borrowing base. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at either a base rate (3.25% at December 31, 2009), or a Eurodollar rate (0.23% at December 31, 2009) plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin at December 31, 2009 was 1.50% in the case of the Eurodollar rate, but varies based upon our credit facility availability and credit ratings. Letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility incur fees at an annual rate tied to the applicable margin described above (1.50% at December 31, 2009). Our credit agreement expires in May 2012.  

 The credit agreement contains covenants and conditions that, among other things, limit our ability to pay cash dividends, incur indebtedness, create liens and make investments. Tesoro is also required to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and specified levels of tangible net worth. We satisfied all of the financial covenants under the credit agreement for the year ended December 31, 2009. The credit agreement is guaranteed by substantially all of Tesoro’s active domestic subsidiaries. The credit agreement allows up to $100 million of restricted payments during any four quarter period subject to credit availability exceeding 20% of the borrowing base.  

 Letter of Credit Agreements  

 The credit agreement allows us to obtain letters of credit under separate letter of credit agreements for foreign crude oil purchases. At December 31, 2009, our letters of credit capacity under these three agreements totaled $500 million, of which $332 million was outstanding. Letters of credit outstanding under these agreements incur fees and are secured by the petroleum inventories supported by the issued letters of credit. The agreements may be terminated by either party, at any time.  

 Cash Flow Summary  

 Components of our cash flows are set forth below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net cash from operating activities decreased to $663 million in 2009 primarily due to less cash earnings, partially offset by lower working capital requirements. Net cash used in investing activities of $436 million in 2009 was primarily for capital expenditures. Net cash from financing activities primarily reflects the net proceeds from our senior notes issuance partially offset by repayments on our revolver and dividend payments. Gross borrowings under our revolving credit agreement totaled $418 million, and we repaid $484 million in borrowings during 2009. Working capital (excluding cash) decreased $264 million at December 31, 2009 from $185 million at December 31, 2008, as payables increased, due to higher crude oil prices at year end, by a larger amount than both receivables and inventories. Inventories decreased by approximately 4 million barrels from December 31, 2008 reflecting our initiatives to optimize working capital and the impact of matching production to lower product demand.  

 Net cash from operating activities decreased during 2008 to $716 million primarily due to lower cash earnings and higher working capital requirements reflecting significantly lower payables associated with falling crude oil prices at year end. Net cash used in investing activities of $610 million in 2008 was primarily for capital expenditures. Net cash used in financing activities in 2008 primarily reflects payments under our revolver and dividend payments of $55 million. Gross borrowings under our revolving credit agreement totaled $5.65 billion, and we repaid $5.71 billion in borrowings during 2008. Working capital (excluding cash) totaled $185 million at December 31, 2008 compared to $83 million at December 31, 2007, primarily reflecting lower payables, partially offset by decreased receivables and inventories. Payables and receivables decreased due to the lower prices of crude oil and refined products. Receivables decreased less than payables as a result of product prices lagging sharply falling crude oil prices. Inventories decreased from year end due in part to our efforts to reduce inventories.   

 39   
 Capital Expenditures  

 During 2010, we expect our capital spending to total approximately $450 million. Our capital spending during 2009 was $401 million compared to our 2009 capital budget of $460 million. Our 2010 projected and 2009 actual capital spending amounts are comprised of the following project categories at December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 See “Business Strategy and Overview” and “Environmental Capital Expenditures” for additional information.  

 Refinery Turnaround Spending  

 We expect to spend approximately $150 million for refinery turnarounds and catalyst in 2010. The turnaround spending is primarily at our Utah refinery during the first quarter, our North Dakota refinery during the second quarter and our Hawaii refinery during the third quarter. Refining throughput and yields in 2010 will be affected by these turnarounds. During 2009, we spent $141 million for refinery turnarounds and catalyst, primarily at our Golden Eagle, Alaska and Los Angeles refineries.  

 Long-Term Commitments  

 Contractual Commitments  

 We have numerous contractual commitments for purchases associated with the operation of our refineries, debt service and leases (see Notes J and N in our consolidated financial statements in Item 8). We also have minimum contractual spending requirements for certain capital projects. The following table summarizes our annual contractual commitments as of December 31, 2009 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Includes maturities of principal and interest payments, excluding capital lease obligations. Amounts and timing may be different from our estimated commitments due to potential voluntary debt prepayments and borrowings.  

  (b)    Capital lease obligations include amounts classified as interest. Operating lease obligations represent our future minimum noncancellable lease commitments. Operating lease commitments for 2010 include lease arrangements with initial terms of less than one year, and are not reduced by minimum rentals to be received by us under subleases.  

  (c)    Represents an estimate of our contractual purchase commitments for crude oil, with remaining terms ranging from 1 year to 2 years. Prices under these term agreements generally fluctuate due to market-responsive pricing provisions. To estimate our annual commitments under these contracts, we estimated crude oil prices using actual market prices as of December 31, 2009, ranging by crude oil type from $60 per barrel to $80 per barrel, and volumes based on the contract’s minimum purchase requirements. We also purchase additional crude oil under short-term renewable contracts and in the spot market, which are not included in the table above.  

  (d)    Represents primarily long-term commitments for the transportation of crude oil and to purchase industrial gases, chemical processing services and utilities at our refineries. These purchase obligations are based on the contract’s minimum volume requirements.    

 40   
 In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, $29 million of unrecognized tax benefits have been recorded as liabilities, $7 million of which is classified as current in the consolidated balance sheet. With the exception of amounts classified as current liabilities, we are uncertain as to when such amounts may be settled. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, we have also recorded a liability for potential interest and penalties of $28 million at December 31, 2009, $21 million of which is classified as current in the consolidated balance sheet. See Note L in our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 Other than our leasing arrangements described in Note N to our consolidated financial statements, we have not entered into any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements that would result in off-balance sheet liabilities.  

 Environmental and Other Matters  

 We are a party to various litigation and contingent loss situations, including environmental and income tax matters, arising in the ordinary course of business. Even though we cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of these matters with certainty, we have accrued for these outcomes based on our best estimates. We believe that the outcome of these matters will not materially impact our liquidity and consolidated financial position, although the resolution of certain of these matters could have a material impact on interim or annual results of operations.  

 We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws, which change frequently, regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and may require us to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of petroleum or chemical substances at various sites, install additional controls, or make other modifications to certain emission sources.  

 Future expenditures may be required to comply with the Clean Air Act and other federal, state and local requirements for our various sites, including our refineries, tank farms, pipelines, operating and closed retail stations and operating and closed refined products terminals. The impact of these legislative and regulatory developments, if enacted or adopted, could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions on our business, and an increase in the cost of or reduced demand for products we manufacture, all of which could have an adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity.  

 In December 2007, the U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act that created a second Renewable Fuels Standard (“RFS2”). This standard requires the total volume of renewable transportation fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) sold or introduced in the U.S. to reach 12.95 billion gallons in 2010 and rise to 36 billion gallons by 2022. The requirements could reduce future demand growth for petroleum products that we manufacture. In the near term, the RFS2 presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for the ethanol, alternative fuel and refining and marketing industries which may require additional expenditures to logistically accommodate the increased use of renewable transportation fuels.  

 In California, Assembly Bill 32 (“AB 32”), created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions and requires that the state return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. AB 32 focuses on using market mechanisms, such as a cap-and-trade program and a Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“LCFS”) to achieve emission reduction targets. The LCFS became effective in January 2010 and requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel fuel by 2020. Final regulations for all other aspects of AB 32, including cap and trade requirements, are being developed by the California Air Resources Board, will take effect in 2012 and will be fully implemented by 2020. The implementation and implications of AB 32 will take many years to realize, and we cannot currently predict its impact on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity.  

 In 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency proposed regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act. The proposed regulations may be finalized in 2010 and include proposed standards for the control of greenhouse gas emissions from light trucks and cars which could reduce the demand for transportation fuels we manufacture. In addition, the proposed regulations include permitting requirements for stationary sources that emit greenhouse gases above a certain threshold. The resulting permitting requirements could impose emission controls which could require material capital expenditures at our refineries. Also in 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation seeking to establish a national cap-and-trade program beginning in 2012 to address greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. The legislation as proposed would materially increase our cost of compliance, however, the U.S. Senate failed to pass similar legislation and we believe it will not do so in 2010.   

 41   
 We are subject to audits by federal, state and local taxing authorities in the normal course of business. It is possible that tax audits could result in claims against us in excess of recorded liabilities. We believe that when these matters are resolved they will not materially affect our consolidated financial position or results of operations. We believe it is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by as much as $25 million in the next twelve months through settlements or other conclusions, primarily regarding state tax issues.  

 We are also subject to extensive federal, state and local tax laws and regulations. New tax laws and regulations and changes in existing tax laws and regulations are continuously being enacted or proposed that could result in increased expenditures for tax liabilities in the future.  

 Environmental Liabilities  

 We are currently, and expect to continue, incurring expenses for environmental cleanup at a number of currently and previously owned or operated refining, pipeline, terminal and retail station properties. We have accrued liabilities for these expenses and believe these accruals are adequate. However, our environmental liabilities are based on estimates including engineering assessments and it is reasonably possible that our estimates will change and that additional remediation costs will be incurred as more information becomes available.  

 We received $58.5 million in a settlement with a prior owner of our Golden Eagle refinery in 2007 in exchange for assuming responsibility for certain environmental liabilities arising from operations at the refinery prior to August 2000. These environmental liabilities totaled $73 million and $87 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We cannot presently determine the additional remedial activities that may be required at the Golden Eagle refinery. Therefore, it is reasonably possible that we will incur additional remediation costs as more information becomes available. We expect to file insurance claims under environmental insurance policies that provide coverage up to $140 million for expenditures in excess of the settlement proceeds. Amounts recorded for environmental liabilities have not been reduced for possible insurance recoveries.  

 We are continuing to investigate conditions at certain active wastewater treatment units at our Golden Eagle refinery. This investigation is driven by an order from the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board that names us as well as two previous owners of the Golden Eagle refinery. Costs to investigate these conditions are included in our environmental accruals. We cannot currently estimate the amount of the ultimate resolution of the order but we believe it will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.  

 Other Matters  

 In the ordinary course of business, we become party to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and governmental investigations, including environmental, regulatory and other matters. Large and sometimes unspecified damages or penalties may be sought from us in some matters for which the likelihood of loss may be reasonably possible but the amount of loss is not currently estimable. As a result, we have not established reserves for these matters and the matters described below. We believe that the resolution of these matters, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.  

 On February 5, 2010, the EPA filed suit against us alleging violations of the Clean Air Act and corresponding regulatory requirements concerning the testing and reporting of transportation fuels and fuel additives. In February 2009, we received a Notice of Violation (“NOV”) from the EPA for the alleged violations arising from a compliance review conducted by the EPA in 2006 for the years 2003 through the time of the review in 2006. We are evaluating the alleged violations contained in the suit.  

 We are a defendant, along with other manufacturing, supply and marketing defendants, in five lawsuits alleging MTBE contamination in ground water. The defendants are being sued for having manufactured MTBE and having manufactured, supplied and distributed gasoline containing MTBE. The plaintiffs in the five cases, all in California, are municipalities and governmental authorities. The plaintiffs allege, in part, that the defendants are liable for manufacturing or distributing a defective product. The suits generally seek individual, unquantified compensatory and punitive damages and attorney’s fees. We intend to vigorously assert our defenses against these claims.   

 42   
 Prior to this year, we received two NOVs from the EPA for the Washington refinery alleging that prior to our acquisition of the refinery, certain modifications were made to the fluid catalytic cracking unit in violation of the Clean Air Act. We have investigated the allegations and believe we have defenses to the allegations and intend to vigorously defend ourselves.  

 Prior to this year, we received a NOV from the EPA concerning our Utah refinery alleging certain violations of the Clean Air Act at the refinery beginning in 2004. We have investigated the allegations contained in the NOV and sent the EPA additional information in 2009.  

 During 2009, Chevron filed a lawsuit against us claiming they are entitled to a share of the refunds we received in 2008 from the owners of the Trans Alaska Pipeline System (“TAPS”). We received $50 million in 2008, net of contingent legal fees, for excessive intrastate rates charged by TAPS during 1997 though 2000, and the period of 2001 through June 2003. Chevron is asserting that it is entitled to a share of its portion of the refunds (approximately $22 million) as retroactive price adjustments under our previous crude oil contracts with them. In December 2009, the trial court judge issued an Order supporting Chevron’s claim to receive a share of the refunds. We disagree with, and are challenging the Order. The exact amount of refunds subject to the Order has not been determined, and some uncertainty remains about the scope of the Order.  

 Environmental Capital Expenditures  

 The EPA issued regulations in February 2007 that require the reduction of benzene in gasoline. We spent $48 million in 2009, and plan to spend an additional $225 million through 2012 at five of our refineries to comply with the regulations. Our California refineries will not require capital spending to meet the benzene reduction standards. These cost estimates are subject to further review and analysis.  

 Regulations issued by California’s South Coast Air Quality Management District require the emission of nitrogen oxides to be reduced through 2011 at our Los Angeles refinery. Currently, we plan to meet this requirement by implementing operational changes and a portfolio of small capital projects.  

 Other projects at our Los Angeles refinery include replacing underground pipelines with above-ground pipelines to comply with an Order from the California Regional Water Quality Control Board. We spent $8 million in 2009, and expect to spend an additional $50 million through 2015 to complete the project.  

 We completed installing equipment at our Golden Eagle refinery in February 2010 to eliminate the use of atmospheric blowdown towers as emergency relief systems. We spent $42 million in 2009, and we expect to spend $11 million in 2010, primarily for an additional project to eliminate a blowdown tower at our North Dakota refinery.  

 We will spend additional capital at our Golden Eagle refinery for reconfiguring and replacing above-ground storage tank systems. We spent $15 million in 2009, and expect to spend an additional $50 million through 2015 for this project.  

 We are evaluating alternative projects for wharves at our Golden Eagle refinery to meet engineering and maintenance standards issued by the State of California in February 2006. These projects could cost between $50 million and $150 million through 2016. The timing of these projects is being evaluated and is subject to change.  

 We are required under a consent decree with the EPA to reduce air emissions at our North Dakota and Utah refineries. We spent $16 million in 2009 and expect to spend an additional $7 million in 2010 to install NOx emission controls on boilers and heaters at these refineries. We plan to meet the requirements in 2010.  

 The cost estimates for the environmental projects described above are subject to further review and analysis and include estimates for capitalized interest and labor costs.  

 Pension Funding  

 We provide a qualified defined benefit retirement plan for all eligible employees, with benefits based on years of service and compensation. Our long-term expected return on plan assets is 8.5%, and our funded employee pension plan assets experienced a gain of $34 million in 2009 and a loss of $94 million in 2008. Based on a 5.80% discount rate and fair values of plan assets as of December 31, 2009, the fair values of the assets in our funded employee pension plan were equal to approximately 60% of the projected benefit obligation as of the end of 2009. At January 1, 2009 the adjusted funding target attainment percentage (a funding measure defined under applicable pension regulations) was 116%. Although Tesoro had no minimum required contribution obligation to its funded    

 43   
 employee pension plan under applicable laws and regulations in 2009, we voluntarily contributed $35 million to improve the funded status of the plan. We have no minimum required contribution to our pension plan under applicable laws and regulations. Future contributions are affected by returns on plan assets, employee demographics and other factors. See Note M in our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further discussion.   

 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS   

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 Our accounting policies are described in Note A in our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We consider the following policies to be the most critical in understanding the judgments that are involved in preparing our financial statements and the uncertainties that could impact our financial condition and results of operations.  

 Receivables — Our trade receivables are stated at their invoiced amounts, less an allowance for potentially uncollectible amounts. We monitor the credit and payment experience of our customers and manage our loss exposure through our credit policies and procedures. The estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is based on our general loss experience and identified loss exposures on individual accounts. Actual losses could vary from estimates as global economic conditions and the related credit environment could change.  

 Property, Plant and Equipment and Acquired Intangibles — We calculate depreciation and amortization using the straight-line method based on estimated useful lives and salvage values of our assets. When assets are placed into service, we make estimates with respect to their useful lives that we believe are reasonable. However, factors such as maintenance levels, economic conditions impacting the demand for these assets, and regulatory or environmental requirements could cause us to change our estimates, thus impacting the future calculation of depreciation and amortization. We evaluate these assets for potential impairment when an asset disposition is probable or when there are indicators of impairment (for example, current period operating losses combined with a history of operating losses or a temporary shutdown of a refinery) and, if so, assessing whether the asset net book values are recoverable from estimated future undiscounted cash flows. The actual amount of an impairment loss to be recorded, if any, is equal to the amount by which the asset’s net book value exceeds its fair market value. Fair market value is generally based on the present values of estimated future cash flows in the absence of quoted market prices. Estimates of future cash flows and fair market values of assets require subjective assumptions with regard to several factors, including an assessment of global market conditions, future operating results and forecasts of the remaining useful lives of the assets. Actual results could differ from those estimates. At December 31, 2009, we evaluated certain of our refineries for potential impairment and we determined that no impairment was necessary.  

 Goodwill — As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had goodwill of $46 million and $89 million, respectively. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently when indicators of impairment exist for the underlying assets. We review the recorded value of our goodwill for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount may exceed fair value. Recoverability is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to the carrying value, including the related goodwill, of that reporting unit. We use an income approach based on the present value of expected net cash flows and a market approach based on recent sales transactions and current stock prices to determine the estimated fair value of our reporting units.  

 During 2009, deteriorating market conditions associated with the economic recession, including excess product inventories and rising crude oil costs, reduced current period and forecasted earnings within our business and industry as well as quoted market prices for comparable company common stocks and refinery sales transactions. Decreased forecasted cash flows and quoted market prices reduced our estimated fair value below carrying value at our Washington refinery resulting in a goodwill impairment of $43 million. At December 31, 2009, we did not have any reporting units with material goodwill balances at risk of impairment. The estimated fair value of our largest remaining reporting unit with goodwill of approximately $30 million exceeded its carrying value by approximately 100% at year-end. However, our impairment test is subject to change from period to period as it requires us to make cash flow assumptions about many things including, future margins, volumes, operating costs, capital expenditures, growth rates and discount rates. Our assumptions regarding future margins and volumes require significant judgment as actual margins and volumes have fluctuated in the past and will likely continue to do so. Changes in market conditions could result in impairment charges in the future.   

 44   
 Environmental Liabilities - At December 31, 2009 and 2008, our total environmental liabilities included in accrued liabilities and other liabilities were $106 million and $123 million, respectively. We record environmental liabilities when environmental assessments and/or proposed environmental remedies are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Generally, the timing of our accruals coincides with assessing the liability and then completing a feasibility study or committing to a formal plan of action. When we complete our analysis or when we commit to a plan of action, we accrue a liability based on the minimum range of the expected costs, unless we consider another amount more likely. We base our cost estimates on the extent of remedial actions required by applicable governing agencies, experience gained from similar environmental projects and the amounts to be paid by other responsible parties. Accruals for our environmental liabilities require judgment due to the uncertainties related to the magnitude of the liability and timing of the remediation effort. Our environmental liability estimates are subject to change due to potential changes in environmental laws, regulations or interpretations, additional information related to the extent and nature of the liability, and potential improvements in remediation technologies. We do not discount our estimated liabilities to present value.  

 Income Taxes — As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we must assess the likelihood that our deferred income tax assets will be recovered through future taxable income. We must establish a valuation allowance to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely. Significant management judgment is required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred income tax assets. We have recorded a valuation allowance of $9 million on certain state credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2009 based on our estimates of taxable income in each jurisdiction in which we operate and the period over which deferred income tax assets will be recoverable. We may need to establish an additional valuation allowance if actual results differ from these estimates or we make adjustments to these estimates in future periods. We also recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination. Tax positions that are not recognized that we have taken or expect to take, are recorded as liabilities. Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties totaled $57 million and $71 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

 Asset Retirement Obligations — Our asset retirement obligations totaled $34 million and $35 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We record asset retirement obligations in the period in which the obligations are incurred and a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. We use the present value of expected cash flows using third-party estimates or historical data to estimate fair value. The calculation of fair value is based on several estimates and assumptions, including projected cash flows, inflation, a discount rate, the settlement dates or a range of potential settlement dates and the probabilities associated with settlement. We consider our past practice, industry practice, management’s intent and estimated economic lives to estimate settlement dates. Our estimates are subject to change due to potential changes in laws, regulations or interpretations, additional information related to the extent and nature of the retirement and technological improvements associated with the retirement activities. We cannot currently make reasonable estimates of the fair values of some retirement obligations, principally those associated with our refineries, pipelines and certain terminals and retail stations, because the related assets have indeterminate useful lives which preclude development of assumptions about the potential timing of settlement dates. Such obligations will be recognized in the period in which sufficient information exists to estimate a range of potential settlement dates.  

 Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits — Accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefits involves several assumptions and estimates including discount rates, expected rate of return on plan assets, rates of compensation, health care cost trends, inflation, retirement rates and mortality rates. We must assume a rate of return on funded pension plan assets in order to estimate our obligations under our defined benefit plans. Due to the nature of these calculations, we engage an actuarial firm to assist with these estimates and the calculation of certain employee benefit expenses. We record an asset for our plans overfunded status or a liability if the plans are underfunded. The funded status represents the difference between the fair value of our plans assets and its projected benefit obligations. While we believe the assumptions we used are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions would affect pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations. We determine the discount rate primarily by reference to rates of high quality corporate bonds that mature in a pattern similar to the expected payments to be made under our plans. The expected return on plan assets is based upon the weighted averages of the expected long-term rates of return for the broad categories of investments held in our plans. These assumptions can have a significant effect on the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements.   

 45   
 A one-percentage-point change in the expected return on plan assets and discount rate for the pension plans would have had the following effects in 2009 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 See Note M in our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information regarding costs and assumptions.  

 Stock-Based Compensation — We follow the fair value method of accounting for stock-based compensation. We estimate the fair value of options and certain other stock-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with assumptions based primarily on historical data. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires assumptions including the expected term the stock-based awards are held until exercised, the estimated volatility of our stock price over the expected term, and the number of awards that will be forfeited prior to vesting. Changes in our assumptions may impact the expenses related to our stock-based awards. Our stock appreciation rights and phantom stock options are revalued to estimated fair value at the end of each reporting period. Changes in our assumptions may impact our liabilities and expenses associated with our stock-based awards.  

 New Accounting Standards and Disclosures  

 See Note A in our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.   

 46   
  ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK