ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

 Our primary source of market risk is the difference between the prices we sell our refined products for and the prices we pay for crude oil and other feedstocks. We have a risk management committee whose responsibilities include reviewing a quarterly assessment of risks to the corporation and presenting a quarterly risk report to executive management for consideration.  

 Commodity Price Risks  

 Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin, relative to fixed and variable expenses (including the costs of crude oil and other feedstocks), at which we are able to sell our refined products. The prices of crude oil and refined products have fluctuated substantially in recent years and depend on many factors. These factors include the global supply and demand for crude oil, diesel fuel and other refined products. This demand is impacted by changes in the global economy, the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products, geo-political conditions, the availability of imports of crude oil and refined products, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, the marketing of alternative and competing fuels and the impact of government regulations. The prices we sell our refined products for are also affected by local factors such as local market conditions and the level of operations of other suppliers in our markets.  

 Prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. Generally, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil results in a corresponding increase or decrease in the price of gasoline and other refined products. The timing, direction and the overall change in refined product prices versus crude oil prices will impact profit margins and could have a significant impact on our earnings and cash flows. Assuming all other factors remained constant, a $1 per barrel change in average gross refining margins, based on our 2009 average throughput of 549 Mbpd, would change annualized pretax operating income by approximately $200 million.  

 We maintain inventories of crude oil, intermediate products and refined products, the values of which are subject to fluctuations in market prices. Our inventories of refinery feedstocks and refined products totaled 20 million barrels and 24 million barrels at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The average cost of our refinery feedstocks and refined products at December 31, 2009 was approximately $26 per barrel on a LIFO basis, compared to market prices of approximately $82 per barrel. If market prices decline to a level below the average cost of these inventories, we would be required to write down the carrying value of our inventory to market.  

 We periodically use non-trading derivative instruments, primarily to manage exposure to commodity price risks associated with the purchase or sale of crude oil and finished products. We may also use derivative instruments to manage price risks associated with inventories above or below our target levels. These derivative instruments typically include exchange-traded futures and over-the-counter swaps and options, generally with durations of less than one year. During the 2008 second quarter, we closed the majority of our crude oil derivative positions associated with our long-haul strategy that matched the price of long haul crude oils to crude oil prices at the day of processing. We continue to monitor our hedging strategy in 2010.  

 We elected not to designate our derivative instruments as cash flow or fair value hedges during 2009 and 2008. Therefore, we mark-to-market our derivative instruments and recognize the changes in their fair value in “Costs of sales and operating expenses”. Accordingly, no change in the value of the related underlying physical commodity is recorded. We include the carrying amounts of our derivatives in “Prepayments and other” or “Accrued liabilities.”  

 Net earnings during 2009 and 2008 included net losses of $68 million and $107 million, respectively, on our derivative positions comprised of the following (dollars in millions and volumes in millions of barrels):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 47   
 Our open positions at December 31, 2009 will expire at various times primarily during 2010. We prepared a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk associated with our derivative instruments. This analysis may differ from actual results. Based on our open net positions of 1 million barrels at December 31, 2009, a $1.00 per-barrel change in quoted market prices of our derivative instruments, assuming all other factors remain constant, could change the fair value of our derivative instruments and pretax operating income by approximately $1 million.  

 Foreign Currency Risk  

 We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations on our monthly purchases of Canadian crude oil. Beginning in August 2009, we entered into forward contracts of Canadian dollars (C$) to manage any monthly exchange rate fluctuations. As of December 31, 2009, we had a forward contract to purchase C$67 million that matured on January 25, 2010. Based on our open forward contract position, a $0.01 change in the Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rate would change operating income by less than $1 million.   

 48   
  ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA