Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Income contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as indicative of future operations. 

Executive Summary 

Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation’s largest publicly-traded owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had interests in 1,973 properties totaling approximately 183 million square feet of GLA located in 45 states, Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Chile. 

The Company is self-administered and self-managed through present management, which has owned and managed neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 45 years. The executive officers are engaged in the day-to-day management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company, with nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management, maintenance, construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the Company. 

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the "RMA"), which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is permitted to participate in activities which it was precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification as a Real Estate Investment Trust ("REIT"), so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations. As such, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in various retail real estate-related opportunities including (i) merchant building, through its wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which are primarily engaged in the ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) retail real estate advisory and disposition services, which primarily focus on leasing and disposition strategies of retail real estate controlled by both healthy and distressed and/or bankrupt retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax deferred exchange transactions. The Company will consider other investments through taxable REIT subsidiaries should suitable opportunities arise. 

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company also provides preferred equity capital for real estate entrepreneurs and provides real estate capital and advisory services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company also makes selective investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment is, in management’s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying real estate. 

The Company’s strategy is to maintain a strong balance sheet while investing opportunistically and selectively. The Company intends to continue to execute its plan of delivering solid growth in earnings and dividends. As a result of the improved 2007 performance, the Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend per common share to $0.40 from $0.36, effective for the third quarter of 2007. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest including where the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with the provisions and guidance of Interpretation No. 46 (R), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, or meets certain criteria of a sole general partner or managing member in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue 04-5, Investor’s Accounting for an Investment in a Limited Partnership when the Investor is the Sole General Partner and the Limited Partners have Certain Rights ("EITF 04-5"). The Company applies these provisions to each of its joint venture investments to determine whether the cost, equity or consolidation method of accounting is appropriate. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financial  

39 

statements, management has made its best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on, but not limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives, valuation of real estate, joint venture investments and realizability of deferred tax assets. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties, and, as a result, actual results could materially differ from these estimates. 

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable 

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are recorded once the required sales level is achieved. Operating expense reimbursements are recognized as earned. Rental income may also include payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. In addition, leases typically provide for reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance, real estate taxes and other operating expenses.  

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable related to base rents, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and post-petition claims. The Company’s reported net income is directly affected by management’s estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable. 

Real Estate 

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset, are capitalized. 

Upon acquisition of operating real estate properties, the Company estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (primarily consisting of land, building, building improvements and tenant improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities (primarily consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships), assumed debt and redeemable units issued in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 141, Business Combinations. Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the purchase price to the applicable assets and liabilities. The Company utilizes methods similar to those used by independent appraisers in estimating the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. The useful lives of amortizable intangible assets are evaluated each reporting period with any changes in estimated useful lives being accounted for over the revised remaining useful life. 

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: 

Buildings and building improvements 

15 to 50 years 

Fixtures, leasehold and tenant improvements 

Terms of leases or useful lives, whichever is shorter 

(including certain identified intangible assets) 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Company’s net income. 

Real estate under development on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets represents ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping center projects which are subsequently sold upon completion and projects which the Company may hold as long-term investments. These assets are carried at cost. The cost of land and buildings under development includes specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved and other costs incurred during the period of development. The Company ceases cost capitalization when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the  

40 

completion of major construction activity. If, in management’s opinion, the estimated net sales price of these assets is less than the net carrying value, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. A gain on the sale of these assets is generally recognized using the full accrual method in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 66, Accounting for Real Estate Sales. 

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated joint ventures under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant influence, but does not control, these entities. These investments are recorded initially at cost and subsequently adjusted for cash contributions and distributions. Earnings for each investment are recognized in accordance with each respective investment agreement and where applicable, based upon an allocation of the investment’s net assets at book value as if the investment was hypothetically liquidated at the end of each reporting period. 

The Company’s joint ventures and other real estate investments primarily consist of co-investments with institutional and other joint venture partners in neighborhood and community shopping center properties, consistent with its core business. These joint ventures typically obtain non-recourse third-party financing on their property investments, thus contractually limiting the Company’s exposure to losses to the amount of its equity investment, and due to the lender’s exposure to losses, a lender typically will require a minimum level of equity in order to mitigate its risk. The Company’s exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. 

On a periodic basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An investment’s value is impaired only if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment and such difference is deemed to be other than temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated fair value of the investment. 

Long Lived Assets 

On a periodic basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if management’s estimate of current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over its remaining useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends, and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the property would be adjusted to an amount to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held for sale, the Company ceases depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price of such asset net of selling costs. If, in management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net book value of such asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties, investments in joint ventures and other investments. The Company’s reported net income is directly affected by management’s estimate of impairments and/or valuation allowances. 

Results of Operations 

Comparison 2007 to 2006 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

41 

 (1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2006 and 2007, providing incremental revenues of approximately $85.5 million, (ii) an overall occupancy increase from the consolidated shopping center portfolio to 95.9% at December 31, 2007, as compared to 95.1% at December 31, 2006, due to growth in rental rates from renewing expiring leases, the completion of certain redevelopment and development projects and tenant buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately $14.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the corresponding period in 2006, offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the corresponding period in 2006, resulting from the transfer of operating properties to various unconsolidated joint venture entities, and the sale of certain properties during 2007 and 2006. 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2007 and 2006 which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2007 and 2006 which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $4.6 million to $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to $18.8 million for the corresponding period in 2006. This decrease is primarily due to the recognition of accretion income of approximately $6.2 million, resulting from the early prepayment of a mortgage receivable in 2006 partially offset by an overall increase in interest income on mortgage receivables entered into in 2007 and 2006. 

Management and other fee income increased approximately $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is primarily due to increased property management fees and other transaction related fees related to the growth in the Company’s co-investment programs. 

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $26.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is primarily due to personnel-related costs, primarily due to growth within the Company’s co-investment programs and the overall continued growth of the Company. 

Interest, dividends and other investment income decreased approximately $24.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in realized gains resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during 2007 as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. 

Other (expense)/income, net decreased approximately $19.5 million to $10.6 million of an expense for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to $8.9 million in income for the corresponding period in 2006. This decrease is primarily due to (i) the receipt of fewer shares during 2007 as compared to 2006 of Sears Holding Corp. common stock received as partial settlement of Kmart pre-petition claims and (ii) an increase in Canadian withholding charges on profit participation proceeds received during 2007 relating to capital transactions from a Canadian preferred equity investment. 

Interest expense increased approximately $43.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is due to higher interest rates and higher outstanding levels of debt during the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the same period in 2006. 

Benefit for income taxes increased $48.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is primarily due to the reduction of approximately $31.2 million of NOL valuation allowance and a tax benefit of approximately $10.1 million from operating losses recognized in connection with the Albertson’s investment. 

42 

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased $67.8 million to $173.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, as compared to $105.5 million for the corresponding period in 2006. This increase is primarily the result of (i) an increase in equity in income from the Kimco Realty Opportunity Portfolio ("KROP") joint venture investment primarily resulting from profit participation of approximately $39.3 million and gains on sale/transfer of operating properties during 2007 of which the Company’s share of gains were $12.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, (ii) an increase in equity in income from the Kimco Income Opportunity Portfolio ("KIR") joint venture investment primarily resulting from gains on sale of operating properties during 2007 of which the Company’s share of gains was $20.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and (iii) the Company’s growth of its various other real estate joint ventures due to additional capital investments for the acquisition of additional operating properties by the ventures throughout 2007 and 2006, partially offset by net operating losses and excess cash distribution from the Albertson’s joint venture of approximately $7.9 million during 2007. 

During 2007, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) four recently completed merchant building projects, (ii) 26 out-parcels, (iii) 74.3 acres of undeveloped land and (iv) completed partial sales of two projects, for aggregate total proceeds of approximately $310.5 million and approximately $3.3 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on previously sold projects. These transactions resulted in gains of approximately $24.1 million, after income taxes of $16.0 million. 

As part of the Company’s ongoing analysis of its merchant building projects, the Company has determined that for two of its projects, located in Jacksonville, FL and Anchorage, AK, the recoverable value will not exceed their estimated cost. This is primarily due to adverse changes in local market conditions and the uncertainty of those conditions in the future. As a result, the Company has recorded an aggregate pre-tax adjustment of property carrying value on these projects for the year ended December 31, 2007, of $8.5 million, representing the excess of the carrying value of the projects over their estimated fair value.  

During 2006, the Company sold six recently completed merchant building projects, its partnership interest in one project and 30 out-parcels, in separate transactions, for approximately $260.0 million. These sales resulted in gains of approximately $25.1 million, after income taxes of $12.2 million. These gains exclude approximately $1.1 million of gain relating to one project, which was deferred due to the Company’s continued ownership interest. 

During 2007, the Company (i) disposed of six operating properties and completed partial sales of three operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $40.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $6.4 million, after income tax of approximately $1.6 million and (ii) transferred one operating property, which was acquired in the first quarter of 2007, to a joint venture in which the Company holds a 15% non-controlling ownership interest for an aggregate price of approximately $4.5 million, which represented the net book value. 

Additionally, during 2007, two consolidated joint ventures in which the Company had preferred equity investments disposed of, in separate transactions, their respective properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $66.5 million. As a result of these capital transactions, the Company received approximately $22.1 million of profit participation, before minority interest of approximately $5.6 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

During 2006, the Company disposed of (i) 28 operating properties and one ground lease for an aggregate sales price of $270.5 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $71.7 million, net of income taxes of $2.8 million relating to the sale of two properties, and (ii) transferred five operating properties, to joint ventures in which the Company has 20% non-controlling interests for an aggregate price of approximately $95.4 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $1.4 million from one transferred property. 

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $442.8 million or $1.65 on a diluted per share basis as compared to $428.3 million or $1.70 on a diluted per share basis for the corresponding period in 2006. This change is primarily attributable to (i) an increase in revenues from rental properties primarily due to acquisitions of operating properties during 2007 and 2006, (ii) an increase in equity in income of real estate joint ventures achieved from profit participation and gains on sale of joint venture operating properties and additional capital investments in the Company’s joint venture programs for the acquisition of additional operating properties throughout 2007 and 2006, 

43 

(iii) earnings of $75.5 million related to the Albertson’s investment monetization, partially offset by, (iv) a decrease in income resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during the corresponding period in 2006 and (v) a decrease in gains on sale of operating properties in 2007 as compared to 2006. 

Comparison 2006 to 2005 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2006 and 2005, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 of approximately $72.3 million, (ii) an overall increase in shopping center portfolio occupancy to 95.1% at December 31, 2006, as compared to 94.6% at December 31, 2005 and the completion of certain redevelopment and development projects providing incremental revenues of approximately $33.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the corresponding period in 2005, offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005, resulting from the transfer of operating properties to various unconsolidated joint venture entities, tenant buyouts, and the sale of certain properties during 2005 and 2006. 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2006 and 2005 which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to operating property acquisitions during 2006 and 2005 which were partially offset by operating property dispositions including those transferred to various joint venture entities. 

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $8.8 million to $18.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $27.6 million for the corresponding period in 2005. This decrease is primarily due to the recognition in 2005 of a prepayment fee of $14.0 million received by the Company relating to the early repayment by Shopko of its outstanding loan with the Company, offset by accretion income of approximately $6.2 million received in 2006, resulting from an early prepayment of a mortgage receivable in June 2006, which had been acquired at a discount. 

Management and other fee income increased approximately $10.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005. This increase is primarily due to incremental fees earned from the Kimsouth portfolio and growth in the Company’s other co-investment programs. 

General and administrative expenses increased approximately $20.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005. This increase is primarily due to personnel-related costs including the non-cash expensing of stock options granted and the overall continued growth of the Company. 

Interest, dividends and other investment income increased approximately $27.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005. This increase is primarily due to greater realized gains on the sale of certain marketable securities and increased interest and dividend income as a result of higher cash balances and the growth in the marketable securities portfolio during 2006 as compared to 2005. 

Interest expense increased $44.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to the corresponding period in 2005. This increase is due to higher interest rates and higher outstanding levels of debt during this period as compared to the same period in the preceding year. 

44 

Income from other real estate investments increased $20.3 million to $77.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $56.8 million for the corresponding period in 2005. This increase is primarily due to (i) increased investment in the Company’s Preferred Equity program which contributed $40.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, including $12.2 million of profit participation earned from 16 capital transactions, as compared to $32.8 million for the corresponding period in 2005, including $12.6 million of profit participation earned from six capital transactions and (ii) pre-tax profits of $7.9 million from the transfer of two properties from Kimsouth to a joint venture in which the Company has an 18% non-controlling interest. These profits exclude amounts that have been deferred as a result of the Company’s continued ownership interest. 

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased $28.1 million to $105.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $77.5 million for the corresponding period in 2005. This increase is primarily attributable to (i) increase in equity in income from the KROP joint venture primarily resulting from profit participation of approximately $22.2 million and gains from the sale of nine operating properties, one land parcel and one out-parcel during 2006 of which the Company’s share of gains was $9.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and (ii) the Company’s growth of its various other real estate joint ventures. The Company has made additional capital investments in these and other joint ventures for the acquisition of additional shopping center properties by the ventures throughout 2006 and 2005. 

During 2006, the Company sold six recently completed merchant building projects, its partnership interest in one project and 30 out-parcels, in separate transactions, for approximately $260.0 million. These sales resulted in gains of approximately $25.1 million, after income taxes of $12.2 million. These gains exclude approximately $1.1 million of gain relating to one project, which was deferred due to the Company’s continued ownership interest. 

During 2005, the Company sold, in separate transactions, 41 out-parcels and six recently completed merchant building projects for approximately $264.1 million. These sales provided gains of approximately $22.8 million, after income taxes of approximately $10.8 million. 

During 2006, the Company disposed of (i) 28 operating properties and one ground lease for an aggregate sales price of $270.5 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $71.7 million, net of income taxes of $2.8 million relating to the sale of two properties, and (ii) transferred five operating properties, to joint ventures in which the Company has 20% non-controlling interests for an aggregate price of approximately $95.4 million, which resulted in a gain of approximately $1.4 million from one transferred property. 

During 2005, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, (i) 20 operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $93.3 million, (ii) transferred three operating properties to KROP for an aggregate price of approximately $49.0 million and (iii) transferred 52 operating properties to various joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging from 15% to 50% for an aggregate price of approximately $183.1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2005, these transactions resulted in gains of approximately $31.9 million and a loss on sale/transfer from four of the properties for $5.2 million. 

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $428.3 million. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 was $363.6 million. On a diluted per share basis, net income improved $0.18 to $1.70 for the year ended December 31, 2006, as compared to $1.52 for the corresponding period in 2005. These increases are attributable to (i) an increase in revenues from rental properties primarily due to acquisitions in 2006 and 2005, (ii) increased income from other real estate investments primarily due to increased investments in the Company’s Preferred Equity program, (iii) an increase in equity in income of real estate joint ventures achieved from profit participation and gains on sale of joint venture operating properties and additional capital investment in the Company’s joint venture programs for the acquisition of additional operating properties throughout 2006 and 2005, (iv) increased gains on sales of operating properties in 2006 and (v) increased income contributed from the marketable securities portfolio in 2006 as compared to 2005, partially offset by, (vi) an increase in interest expense due to higher interest rates and increased borrowings during 2006. 

45 

Tenant Concentrations 

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties, avoiding dependence on any single property, and a large tenant base. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s five largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s and Wal-Mart, which represented approximately 3.2%, 2.8%, 2.3%, 2.0% and 1.9%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company’s capital resources include access to liquidity in the capital markets, mortgage and construction loan financing and immediate access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $1.8 billion. 

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities 

Cash flows provided from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 were approximately $666.0 million, as compared to approximately $455.6 million for the comparable period in 2006. The increase of approximately $210.4 million is primarily attributable to increased cash flows due to (i) the acquisition of properties during 2007 and 2006, (ii) an increase in revenues from rental properties due to an overall occupancy increase from the consolidated shopping center portfolio, growth in rental rates from lease renewals and the completion of certain re-development and development projects and (iii) an increase in distributions from joint ventures primarily received from the Company’s investment in KROP resulting from the distribution of profit participation proceeds and distributions from the Albertson's investment.  

The Company anticipates that cash flows from operating activities will continue to provide adequate capital to fund its operating and administrative expenses, regular debt service obligations and all dividend payments in accordance with REIT requirements in both the short term and long term. In addition, the Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facilities, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Net cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2007, was primarily attributable to (i) cash flow from the diverse portfolio of rental properties, (ii) the acquisition of operating properties during 2007 and 2006, (iii) new leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties and (iv) growth in the Company’s joint venture and Preferred Equity programs.  

Investing Activities 

Cash flows used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 were approximately $1.5 billion, as compared to approximately $246.2 million for the comparable period in 2006. This increase in cash utilization of $1.3 billion resulted primarily from an increase in acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate and real estate under development and a decrease in proceeds received from transferred operating/development properties, partially offset by reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures received in 2007 as compared to 2006. 

Acquisitions and Redevelopments 

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company expended approximately $1.0 billion towards acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate. (See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

46 

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company expended approximately $70.1 million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting projects. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects during 2008 will be approximately $90.0 million to $110.0 million. The funding of these capital requirements will be provided by cash flow from operating activities and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit. 

Investments and Advances to Real Estate Joint Ventures 

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company expended approximately $413.2 million for investments and advances to real estate joint ventures and received approximately $293.5 million from reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures. (See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Ground-up Development 

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which develop neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various ground-up development projects located in Mexico for long-term investment (see Recent Developments - International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The ground-up development projects generally have significant pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had in progress a total of 60 ground-up development projects including 27 merchant building projects, nine U.S. ground-up development projects, and 24 ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico. 

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company expended approximately $640.9 million in connection with the purchase of land and construction costs related to these projects and those sold during 2007. The Company anticipates its capital commitment during 2008 toward these and other development projects will be approximately $200.0 million to $250.0 million. The proceeds from the sales of completed ground-up development projects, proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements.  

Dispositions and Transfers 

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $359.2 million relating to the sale of various operating properties and ground-up development projects and approximately $69.9 million from the transfer of operating properties to various joint ventures. (See Notes 3 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Financing Activities 

Cash flows provided from financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 were approximately $584.1 million, as compared to approximately $59.4 million for the comparable period in 2006. This increase of approximately $524.7 million resulted primarily from (i) an increase in borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facilities in 2007 due to increased investment activity during 2007, (ii) an increase in proceeds from mortgage/construction loan financing and (iii) a decrease in the repayment of borrowings under the revolving credit facilities in 2007 as compared to 2006, partially offset by an increase in dividends paid. 

It is management’s intention that the Company continually has access to the capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. As such, the Company intends to operate with and maintain a conservative capital structure with a level of debt to total market capitalization of 50% or less. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s level of debt to total market capitalization was 30%. In addition, the Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings. The Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a conservative debt structure. 

47 

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $5.7 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. In March 2006, the Company was added to the S & P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap corporations, most of which are U.S. corporations. 

During October 2007, the Company established a new $1.5 billion unsecured U.S. revolving credit facility (the "U.S. Credit Facility") with a group of banks, which is scheduled to expire in October 2011. This credit facility, which replaced the Company’s $850.0 million unsecured U.S. revolving facility, which was scheduled to expire in July 2008, has made available funds to finance general corporate purposes, including (i) property acquisitions, (ii) investments in the Company’s institutional management programs, (iii) development and redevelopment costs and (iv) any short-term working capital requirements. Interest on borrowings under the U.S. Credit Facility accrues at LIBOR plus 0.375% and fluctuates in accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings. As part of this U.S. Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid option whereby the Company may auction up to $750.0 million of its requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides the Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread. A facility fee of 0.125% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. As part of the U.S. Credit Facility, the Company has a $200.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. Pursuant to the terms of the U.S. Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to covenants requiring the maintenance of (i) maximum leverage ratios on both secured and unsecured debt and (ii) minimum interest and fixed coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2007, there was approximately $259.0 million outstanding under this credit facility, of which approximately $9.0 million (approximately 4.5 million Pounds Sterling) was outstanding under the alternative currency sub-limit. 

The Company also has a three-year CAD $250.0 million unsecured credit facility with a group of banks. This facility bore interest at the CDOR Rate, as defined, plus 0.45%, and was scheduled to expire in March 2008. During October 2007, the facility was amended to modify the covenant package to conform to the Company’s U.S. Credit Facility. The facility was further amended in January 2008, to extend the maturity date to 2011, with an additional one-year extension option, at a reduced rate of CDOR plus 0.375%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings. Proceeds from this facility are used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of Canadian denominated investments. As of December 31, 2007, there was no outstanding balance under this credit facility. 

Additionally, the Company has a three-year MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility. This facility bears interest at the TIIE Rate, as defined therein, plus 1.00%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings, and is scheduled to mature in May 2008 with an additional one-year extension option. Proceeds from this facility are used to fund peso denominated investments. As of December 31, 2007, there was MXP 250.0 million (approximately USD $22.9 million) outstanding under this credit facility. 

The Company is currently negotiating a five-year fixed rate MXP 1.0 billion term loan. Proceeds from this loan will be used to pay the outstanding balance on the MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility and for funding Mexican denominated investments. 

During August 2007, the Company obtained a $200.0 million unsecured term loan that bore interest at LIBOR plus 0.325%. The term loan was scheduled to mature on December 14, 2007. The Company utilized these proceeds to partially repay the outstanding balance on the Company’s U.S. Credit Facility. The term loan was fully repaid in October 2007. 

The Company has a Medium Term Notes ("MTN") program pursuant to which it may, from time-to-time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. (See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

48 

During April 2007, the Company issued $300.0 million of ten-year Senior Unsecured Notes at an interest rate of 5.70% per annum payable semi-annually in arrears. These notes were sold at 99.984% of par value. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $297.8 million, after related transaction costs of approximately $2.2 million. The proceeds from this issuance were primarily used to repay a portion of the outstanding balance under the Company’s U.S. Credit Facility and for general corporate purposes. These notes were issued in conjunction with a fourth supplemental indenture, which removed the financial covenant requirements for this issuance and future offerings under the indenture as amended. 

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company repaid the following senior unsecured notes: (i) its $30.0 million 7.46% fixed rate notes, which matured on May 20, 2007, (ii) its $55.0 million 5.75% fixed rate notes, which matured on June 29, 2007, (iii) its $20.0 million 6.96% fixed rate notes which matured on July 16, 2007, (iv) its $50.0 million 7.86% fixed rate notes, which matured on November 1, 2007, (v) its $50.0 million 7.90% fixed rate notes, which matured on December 7, 2007 and (vi) its $10.0 million 6.70% fixed rate notes, which matured on December 14, 2007. Additionally, the Company repaid its $35.0 million 4.96% fixed rate Senior Unsecured Notes, which matured on November 30, 2007. 

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties and construction loans to partially fund the capital needs of its ground-up development projects. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had over 390 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio. 

During 2007, the Company (i) obtained an aggregate of approximately $285.8 million of non-recourse mortgage debt on 12 operating properties, (ii) assumed approximately $83.7 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of eight operating properties, including approximately $2.5 million of fair value debt adjustments and (iii) paid off approximately $81.6 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt that encumbered 11 operating properties. 

During 2007, the Company obtained individual construction loans on five merchant building projects and assumed one loan in connection with the acquisition of a merchant building project. Additionally, the Company repaid construction loans on three merchant building projects. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had a total of 15 construction loans with commitments of up to $360.3 million of which approximately $245.9 million has been funded. These loans had scheduled maturities ranging from one month to 33 months (excluding any extension options which may be available to the Company) and bear interest at rates ranging from 6.78% to 7.48% at December 31, 2007. 

During May 2006, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, which is effective for a term of three-years, for the unlimited future offerings, from time-to-time, of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants. 

During October 2007, the Company issued 18,400,000 Depositary Shares (the "Class G Depositary Shares"), after the exercise of an over-allotment option, each representing a one-hundredth fractional interest in a share of the Company’s 7.75% Class G Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Class G Preferred Stock"). Dividends on the Class G Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears at the rate of 7.75% per annum based on the $25.00 per share initial offering price, or $1.9375 per annum. The Class G Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or part, for cash on or after October 10, 2012, at the option of the Company, at a redemption price of $25.00 per depositary share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The Class G Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property or securities of the Company. Net proceeds from the sale of the Class G Depositary Shares, totaling approximately $444.5 million (after related transaction costs of $15.5 million) were used for general corporate purposes, including funding property acquisitions, investments in the Company’s institutional management programs and other investment activities. The Company also used a portion of the proceeds to partially repay amounts outstanding under its U.S. Credit Facility. 

During 2007, the Company received approximately $38.1 million through employee stock option exercises and the dividend reinvestment program. 

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows, which are expected to increase due to property acquisitions, growth in operating income in the existing portfolio and  

49 

from other investments. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. Cash dividends paid increased to $384.5 million in 2007, compared to $332.6 million in 2006 and $293.3 million in 2005. 

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.40 per common share payable to shareholders of record on January 2, 2008, which was paid on January 15, 2008. 

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 

The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit facilities, MTNs, senior notes, mortgages and construction loans with maturities ranging from less than one year to 28 years. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of approximately 5.5 years. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has 79 shopping center properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. In addition, the Company has 19 non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its retail store lease portfolio. The following table summarizes the Company’s debt maturities and obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2007 (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

maturities utilized do not reflect extension options, which range from six months to two years. 

(2) 

for loans which have interest at floating rates, future interest expense was calculated using the rate as of December 31, 2007. 

The Company has $100.0 million of medium term notes, $25.3 million of senior unsecured notes, $84.4 million of mortgage debt and $260.9 million of construction loans scheduled to mature in 2008. The Company anticipates satisfying these maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its unsecured revolving credit facilities, new debt issuances and the sale of completed ground-up development projects. 

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion and repayment guarantees for construction loans encumbering certain of the Company’s ground-up development projects and guaranty of payment related to the Company’s insurance program. These letters of credit aggregate approximately $30.7 million. 

In June 2006, the FASB issued Financial Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company’s financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes". The interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute criteria for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The interpretation also provides guidance on de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. 

The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. The Company does not have any material unrecognized tax benefits, therefore the adoption of FIN 48 did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

During June 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a non-controlling ownership interest, and acquired all of the common stock of InTown Suites Management, Inc. This investment was funded with approximately $186.0 million of new  

50 

cross-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt with a fixed interest rate of 5.59%, encumbering 35 properties, a $153.0 million three-year unsecured credit facility, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.325% and is guaranteed by the Company and the assumption of $278.6 million cross-collateralized non-recourse mortgage debt with fixed interest rates ranging from 5.19% to 5.89%, encumbering 86 properties. The joint venture partner has pledged its equity interest for any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to pay. The outstanding balance on the three-year unsecured credit facility was $149.0 million as of December 31, 2007. The joint venture obtained an interest rate swap at 5.37% on $128.0 million of this debt. The swap is designated as a cash flow hedge and as such adjustments are recorded in Other comprehensive income. 

During 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a non-controlling ownership interest, to acquire a property in Houston, Texas. This investment was funded with a $24.5 million one-year unsecured credit facility with an additional one-year extension option, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.375% and is guaranteed by the Company. The outstanding balance on this credit facility as of December 31, 2007 was $24.5 million. 

During April 2007, the Company entered into a joint venture, in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling ownership interest to acquire a property in Visalia, CA. Subsequent to this acquisition the joint venture obtained a three-year $6.0 million three-year promissory note which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.75%, and has an extension option of two-years. This loan is jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner. As of December 31, 2007, the outstanding balance on this loan was $6.0 million. 

The KimPru joint ventures, entities in which the Company holds a 15% non-controlling interest, with Prudential Real Estate Investors ("PREI") through three separate accounts managed by PREI obtained a $1.2 billion two-year credit facility provided by a consortium of banks and guaranteed by the Company. PREI guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. As of December 31, 2007, there was $702.5 million outstanding under this credit facility, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.45% and is scheduled to mature in October 2008. 

During 2006, an entity in which the Company has a preferred equity investment, located in Montreal, Canada, obtained a non-recourse construction loan, which is collateralized by the respective land and project improvements. Additionally, the Company has provided a guaranty to the lender and the developer partner has provided an indemnity to the Company for 25% of all debt. As of December 31, 2007, there was CAD $72.6 million (approximately USD $74.0 million) outstanding on this construction loan. 

In connection with the construction of its development projects and related infrastructure, certain public agencies require performance and surety bonds be posted to guarantee that the Company’s obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. As of December 31, 2007, there were approximately $90.4 million bonds outstanding. 

Additionally, the RioCan Venture, an entity in which the Company holds a 50% non-controlling interest, has a CAD $7.0 million (approximately USD $7.1 million) letter of credit facility. This facility is jointly guaranteed by RioCan and the Company and had approximately CAD $5.5 million (approximately USD $5.6 million) outstanding as of December 31, 2007, relating to various development projects.  

During 2005, an entity in which the Company has a preferred equity investment obtained a CAD $22.5 million (approximately USD $22.9 million) credit facility to finance the construction of a 0.1 million square foot shopping center property located in Kamloops, B.C. This facility bears interest at Royal Bank Prime Rate ("RBP") plus 0.5% per annum and is scheduled to mature in March 2008. The Company and its partner in this entity each have a limited and several guarantee of CAD $7.5 million (approximately USD $7.6 million) on this facility. As of December 31, 2007, there was CAD $21.1 million (approximately USD $21.5 million) outstanding on this facility. 

During 2005, PL Retail, a joint venture in which the Company holds a 15% non-controlling interest, entered into a $39.5 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which bears interest at LIBOR plus 0.45% and was scheduled to mature in February 2008. During 2008, the loan was extended to February 2009. This facility is guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner has guaranteed reimbursement to the Company of 85% of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make. As of December 31, 2007, there was $24.6 million outstanding under this facility. 

51 

Additionally, during 2005, the Company acquired three operating properties and one land parcel, through joint ventures, in which the Company holds 50% non-controlling interests. Subsequent to these acquisitions, the joint ventures obtained four individual one-year loans aggregating $20.4 million with interest rates ranging from LIBOR plus 0.50% to LIBOR plus 0.55%. During 2007, one of these properties was sold for a sales price of approximately $10.5 million, including the pay down of $5.0 million of debt. During 2007, two of these term loans were extended until May 2008 and one was extended until October 2008. As of December 31, 2007, there was an aggregate of $15.4 million outstanding on these loans. These loans are jointly and severally guaranteed by the Company and the joint venture partner. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Merchant Building Joint Ventures 

At December 31, 2007, the Company has two merchant building projects through unconsolidated joint ventures in which the Company has 50% non-controlling interests. One project is financed with a $113.0 million ten-year permanent note, which bears interest at a rate of 5.55% per annum. The other project is financed with a term loan, which is 50% guaranteed by the Company, with a commitment of up to $28.0 million of which $28.0 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2007. This loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.55%, or 6.78% at December 31, 2007, and is scheduled to mature in September 2008. 

Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures 

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. These joint ventures operate either shopping center properties or are established for development projects. Such arrangements are generally with third-party institutional investors, local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed with individual non-recourse mortgage loans. Non-recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collateralized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). These investments include the following joint ventures: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) Ownership % is a blended rate. 

(b) See Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments regarding guarantees by the Company and its joint venture partners. 

(c) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Prudential Real Estate Investors. 

(d) Represents the Kimco Income REIT, formed in 1998. 

(e) Represents the Company’s joint venture formed from the acquisition of the Price Legacy Corporation. 

(f) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with UBS Wealth Management North American Property Fund Limited. 

(g) Represents the Company’s joint venture with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust. 

The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. As of December 31, 2007, these unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $2.9 billion. The Company’s share of these non-recourse mortgages was approximately $707.7 million. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

52 

Other Real Estate Investments 

The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners of real estate properties. The Company accounts for its preferred equity investments under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity Program was approximately $484.1 million relating to 258 properties. As of December 31, 2007, these preferred equity investment properties had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $1.7 billion. Due to the Company’s preferred position in these investments, the Company’s share of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its preferred equity investments is primarily limited to its invested capital. 

Additionally, during July 2007, the Company invested approximately $81.7 million of preferred equity capital in a portfolio comprised of 403 net leased properties which are divided into 30 master leased pools with each pool leased to individual corporate operators. These properties consist of a diverse array of free-standing restaurants, fast food restaurants, convenience and auto parts stores. As of December 31, 2007 these properties were encumbered by third party loans aggregating approximately $433.0 million with interest rates ranging from 5.08% to 10.47% with a weighted average interest rate of 9.3% and maturities ranging from 1.4 years to 15.2 years.  

During June 2002, the Company acquired a 90% equity participation interest in an existing leveraged lease of 30 properties. The properties are leased under a long-term bond-type net lease whose primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having certain renewal option rights. The Company’s cash equity investment was approximately $4.0 million. This equity investment is reported as a net investment in leveraged lease in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases (as amended). The net investment in leveraged lease reflects the original cash investment adjusted by remaining net rentals, estimated unguaranteed residual value, unearned and deferred income and deferred taxes relating to the investment. 

As of December 31, 2007, 18 of these properties were sold, whereby the proceeds from the sales were used to pay down the mortgage debt by approximately $32.1 million. As of December 31, 2007, the remaining 12 properties were encumbered by third-party non-recourse debt of approximately $48.8 million that is scheduled to fully amortize during the primary term of the lease from a portion of the periodic net rents receivable under the net lease. As an equity participant in the leveraged lease, the Company has no recourse obligation for principal or interest payments on the debt, which is collateralized by a first mortgage lien on the properties and collateral assignment of the lease. Accordingly, this debt has been offset against the related net rental receivable under the lease. 

Effects of Inflation 

Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate protection agreements and/or foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate debt and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 157, Fair Value Measurement ("SFAS No. 157"), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurement. This statement is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. During February 2008, the FASB issued a Staff Position that will (i) partially defer the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for one year for certain nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities and (ii) remove certain leasing transactions from the scope of SFAS No. 157. The impact of adopting SFAS No. 157 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations.  

53 

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities ("SFAS No. 159"). SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The impact of SFAS No. 159 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. 

In June 2007, the AICPA issued Statement of Position 07-1, Clarification of the Scope of the Audit and Accounting Guide for Investment Companies and Accounting by Parent Companies and Equity Method Investors for Investments in Investment Companies (“SOP 07-1”). SOP 07-1 sets forth more stringent criteria for qualifying as an investment company than does the predecessor Audit Guide. In addition, SOP 07-1 establishes new criteria for a parent company or equity method investor to retain investment company accounting in their consolidated financial statements. Investment companies record all their investments at fair value with changes in value reflected in earnings. SOP 07-1 was to be effective for the Company’s 2008 fiscal year, however, in October 2007 the FASB agreed to propose an indefinite delay, and, in February 2008, the FASB issued a final Staff Position to indefinitely delay the effective date of SOP 07-1. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations ("SFAS No. 141(R)"). The objective of this statement is to improve the relevance, representational faithfulness, and comparability of the information that a reporting entity provides in its financial reports about a business combination and its effects. To accomplish that, this Statement establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer: (i) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, (ii) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase and (iii) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. This statement applies prospectively to business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. An entity may not apply it before that date. The Company is currently assessing the impact the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) would have on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an Amendment of ARB No. 51("SFAS No. 160"). A noncontrolling interest, sometimes called a minority interest, is the portion of equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to a parent. The objective of this statement is to improve the relevance, comparability, and transparency of the financial information that a reporting entity provides in its consolidated financial statements by establishing accounting and reporting standards that require: (i) the ownership interests in subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent be clearly identified, labeled, and presented in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity, but separate from the parent’s equity, (ii) the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the non-controlling interest be clearly identified and presented on the face of the consolidated statement of income, (iii) changes in a parent’s ownership interest while the parent retains its controlling financial interest in its subsidiary be accounted for consistently and requires that they be accounted for similarly, as equity transactions, (iv) when a subsidiary is deconsolidated, any retained noncontrolling equity investment in the former subsidiary be initially measured at fair value, the gain or loss on the deconsolidation of the subsidiary is measured using the fair value of any noncontrolling equity investment rather than the carrying amount of that retained investment and (v) entities provide sufficient disclosures that clearly identify and distinguish between the interests of the parent and the interests of the noncontrolling owners. This statement is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Earlier adoption is prohibited. The Company is currently assessing the impact the adoption of SFAS No. 160 would have on the Company’s financial position and results of operations. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk