Item 1. Business 

General  

Kimco Realty Corporation, a Maryland corporation, is one of the nation's largest owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. The terms "Kimco", the "Company", "we", "our" and "us" each refer to Kimco Realty Corporation and our subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. The Company is a self-administered real estate investment trust ("REIT") and its management has owned and operated neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 45 years. The Company has not engaged, nor does it expect to retain, any REIT advisors in connection with the operation of its properties. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had interests in 1,973 properties, totaling approximately 183 million square feet of gross leasable area ("GLA") located in 45 states, Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Chile. The Company’s ownership interests in real estate consist of its consolidated portfolio and in portfolios where the Company owns an economic interest, such as properties in the Company’s investment management programs, where the Company partners with institutional investors and also retains management (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The Company believes its portfolio of neighborhood and community shopping center properties is the largest (measured by GLA) currently held by any publicly traded REIT. 

The Company's executive offices are located at 3333 New Hyde Park Road, New Hyde Park, New York 11042-0020 and its telephone number is (516) 869-9000. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the term the "Company" as used herein is intended to include all subsidiaries of the Company. 

The Company’s web site is located at http://www.kimcorealty.com. The information contained on our web site does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On the Company’s web site you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and 

4 

amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). 

History 

The Company began operations through its predecessor, The Kimco Corporation, which was organized in 1966 upon the contribution of several shopping center properties owned by its principal stockholders. In 1973, these principals formed the Company as a Delaware corporation, and in 1985, the operations of The Kimco Corporation were merged into the Company. The Company completed its initial public stock offering (the "IPO") in November 1991, and commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, elected to qualify as a REIT in accordance with Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In 1994, the Company reorganized as a Maryland corporation. 

The Company's growth through its first 15 years resulted primarily from the ground-up development and construction of its shopping centers. By 1981, the Company had assembled a portfolio of 77 properties that provided an established source of income and positioned the Company for an expansion of its asset base. At that time, the Company revised its growth strategy to focus on the acquisition of existing shopping centers and creating value through the redevelopment and re-tenanting of those properties. As a result of this strategy, a majority of the operating shopping centers added to the Company’s portfolio since 1981 have been through the acquisition of existing shopping centers. 

During 1998, the Company, through a merger transaction, completed the acquisition of The Price REIT, Inc., a Maryland corporation, (the "Price REIT"). Prior to the merger, Price REIT was a self-administered and self-managed equity REIT that was primarily focused on the acquisition, development, management and redevelopment of large retail community shopping center properties concentrated in the western part of the United States. In connection with the merger, the Company acquired interests in 43 properties, located in 17 states. With the completion of the Price REIT merger, the Company expanded its presence in certain western states including Arizona, California and Washington. In addition, Price REIT had strong ground-up development capabilities. These development capabilities, coupled with the Company’s own construction management expertise, provide the Company the ability to pursue ground-up development opportunities on a selective basis. 

Also during 1998, the Company formed Kimco Income REIT ("KIR"), an entity in which the Company held a 99.99% limited partnership interest. KIR was established for the purpose of investing in high-quality properties financed primarily with individual non-recourse mortgages. The Company believed that these properties were appropriate for financing with greater leverage than the Company traditionally used. At the time of formation, the Company contributed 19 properties to KIR, each encumbered by an individual non-recourse mortgage. During 1999, KIR sold a significant interest in the partnership to institutional investors, thus establishing the Company’s investment management program. The Company holds a 45.0% non-controlling limited partnership interest in KIR and accounts for its investment in KIR under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

The Company has expanded its investment management program through the establishment of other various institutional joint venture programs in which the Company has non-controlling interests ranging generally from 5% to 45%. The Company’s largest joint venture, Kimco Prudential Joint Venture ("KimPru"), was formed in 2006, in connection with the Pan Pacific Retail Properties Inc. ("Pan Pacific") merger transaction, with Prudential Real Estate Investors ("PREI"), which holds approximately $3.6 billion in assets. The Company earns management fees, acquisition fees, disposition fees and promoted interests based on value creation. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s assets under management were valued at approximately $14.0 billion, comprising 441 properties. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

In connection with the Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 (the "RMA") which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company is permitted to participate in activities from which it was previously precluded in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, so long as these activities are conducted in entities which elect to be treated as taxable subsidiaries under the Code, subject to certain limitations. As such, the Company, through its taxable REIT subsidiaries, is engaged in various retail real estate related opportunities, including (i) merchant building through its  

5 

wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, including Kimco Developers, Inc. ("KDI"), which are primarily engaged in the ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon completion (see Recent Developments - Ground-Up Development), (ii) retail real estate advisory and disposition services, which primarily focus on leasing and disposition strategies for real estate property interests of both healthy and distressed retailers and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax-deferred exchange transactions. The Company will consider other investments through taxable REIT subsidiaries should suitable opportunities arise. 

The Company has continued its geographic expansion with investments in Canada, Mexico, Puerto Rico and Chile. During October 2001, the Company formed the RioCan Venture ("RioCan Venture") with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust ("RioCan", Canada’s largest publicly traded REIT measured by GLA) in which the Company has a 50% non-controlling interest, to acquire retail properties and development projects in Canada. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method of accounting. The Company has expanded its presence in Canada with the establishment of other joint venture arrangements. During 2002, the Company, along with various strategic co-investment partners, began acquiring operating and development properties located in Mexico. During 2006, the Company acquired interests in shopping center properties located in Puerto Rico through joint ventures in which the Company holds controlling ownership interests. During 2007, the Company acquired an interest in four shopping center properties located in Chile through a joint venture in which the Company holds a non-controlling ownership interest. (See Notes 3 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

In addition, the Company continues to capitalize on its established expertise in retail real estate by establishing other ventures in which the Company owns a smaller equity interest and provides management, leasing and operational support for those properties. The Company also provides preferred equity capital for real estate entrepreneurs and provides real estate capital and advisory services to both healthy and distressed retailers. The Company also makes selective investments in secondary market opportunities where a security or other investment is, in management’s judgment, priced below the value of the underlying assets. 

Investment and Operating Strategy  

The Company's investment objective has been to increase cash flow, current income and, consequently, the value of its existing portfolio of properties and to seek continued growth through (i) the strategic re-tenanting, renovation and expansion of its existing centers and (ii) the selective acquisition of established income-producing real estate properties and properties requiring significant re-tenanting and redevelopment, primarily in neighborhood and community shopping centers in geographic regions in which the Company presently operates. The Company has and will continue to consider investments in other real estate sectors and in geographic markets where it does not presently operate should suitable opportunities arise. 

The Company's neighborhood and community shopping center properties are designed to attract local area customers and typically are anchored by a discount department store, a supermarket or a drugstore tenant offering day-to-day necessities rather than high-priced luxury items. The Company may either purchase or lease income-producing properties in the future and may also participate with other entities in property ownership through partnerships, joint ventures or similar types of co-ownership. Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and/or other indebtedness. Financing or other indebtedness may be incurred simultaneously or subsequently in connection with such investments. Any such financing or indebtedness would have priority over the Company’s equity interest in such property. The Company may make loans to joint ventures in which it may or may not participate. 

In addition to property or equity ownership, the Company provides property management services for fees relating to the management, leasing, operation, supervision and maintenance of real estate properties. 

While the Company has historically held its properties for long-term investment and accordingly has placed strong emphasis on its ongoing program of regular maintenance, periodic renovation and capital improvement, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold, in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, subject to REIT qualification rules. 

The Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through diversification achieved by the geographic distribution of its properties and a large tenant base. As of December 31, 2007, the Company's single largest  

6 

neighborhood and community shopping center accounted for only 1.7% of the Company's annualized base rental revenues and only 0.8% of the Company’s total shopping center GLA. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s five largest tenants were The Home Depot, TJX Companies, Sears Holdings, Kohl’s and Wal-Mart, which represent approximately 3.2%, 2.8%, 2.3%, 2.0% and 1.9%, respectively, of the Company’s annualized base rental revenues, including the proportionate share of base rental revenues from properties in which the Company has less than a 100% economic interest. 

In connection with the RMA, which became effective January 1, 2001, the Company has expanded its investment and operating strategy to include new real estate-related opportunities which the Company was precluded from previously in order to maintain its qualification as a REIT. As such, the Company has established a merchant building business through its wholly owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which make selective acquisitions of land parcels for the ground-up development primarily of neighborhood and community shopping centers and subsequent sale thereof upon completion. Additionally, the Company has developed a business which specializes in providing capital, real estate advisory services and disposition services of real estate controlled by both healthy and distressed and/or bankrupt retailers. These services may include assistance with inventory and fixture liquidation in connection with going-out-of-business sales. The Company may participate with other entities in providing these advisory services through partnerships, joint ventures or other co-ownership arrangements. The Company, as a regular part of its investment strategy, will continue to actively seek investments for its taxable REIT subsidiaries. 

The Company emphasizes equity real estate investments including preferred equity investments, but may, at its discretion, invest in mortgages, other real estate interests and other investments. The mortgages in which the Company may invest may be either first mortgages, junior mortgages or other mortgage-related securities. The Company provides mortgage financing to retailers with significant real estate assets, in the form of leasehold interests or fee-owned properties, where the Company believes the underlying value of the real estate collateral is in excess of its loan balance. In addition, the Company will acquire debt instruments at a discount in the secondary market where the Company believes the asset value of the enterprise is greater than the current value. 

The Company may legally invest in the securities of other issuers, for the purpose, among others, of exercising control over such entities, subject to the gross income and asset tests necessary for REIT qualification. The Company may, on a selective basis, acquire all or substantially all securities or assets of other REITs or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with the Company’s investment policies. In any event, the Company does not intend that its investments in securities will require it to register as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940. 

The Company has authority to offer shares of capital stock or other senior securities in exchange for property and to repurchase or otherwise reacquire its common stock or any other securities and may engage in such activities in the future. At all times, the Company intends to make investments in such a manner as to be consistent with the requirements of the Code to qualify as a REIT unless, because of circumstances or changes in the Code (or in Treasury Regulations), the Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in the best interests of the Company to qualify as a REIT. 

Capital Strategy and Resources 

The Company intends to operate with and maintain a conservative capital structure with a level of debt to total market capitalization of approximately 50% or less. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s level of debt to total market capitalization was 30%. In addition, the Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings. It is management's intention that the Company continually have access to the capital resources necessary to expand and develop its business. Accordingly, the Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives in a manner consistent with its intention to operate with a conservative debt structure.  

Since the completion of the Company's IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $5.7 billion. Proceeds from public capital market 

7 

activities have been used for repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments, among other things. The Company also has revolving credit facilities totaling approximately $1.8 billion available for general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2007 the Company had approximately $282.2 million outstanding on the facilities. In March 2006, the Company was added to the S & P 500 Index, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap companies, most of which are U.S. corporations. For further discussion regarding capital strategy and resources, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition - Financing Activities. 

Competition  

As one of the original participants in the growth of the shopping center industry and one of the nation's largest owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers, the Company has established close relationships with a large number of major national and regional retailers and maintains a broad network of industry contacts. Management is associated with and/or actively participates in many shopping center and REIT industry organizations. Notwithstanding these relationships, there are numerous regional and local commercial developers, real estate companies, financial institutions and other investors who compete with the Company for the acquisition of properties and other investment opportunities and in seeking tenants who will lease space in the Company’s properties. 

Operating Practices 

Nearly all operating functions, including leasing, legal, construction, data processing, maintenance, finance and accounting, are administered by the Company from its executive offices in New Hyde Park, New York and supported by the Company’s regional offices. The Company believes it is critical to have a management presence in its principal areas of operation and accordingly, the Company maintains regional offices in various cities throughout the United States. As of December 31, 2007, a total of 682 persons are employed at the Company's executive and regional offices. 

The Company's regional offices are generally staffed by a regional business leader and the operating personnel necessary to both function as local representatives for leasing and promotional purposes, to complement the corporate office’s administrative and accounting efforts and to ensure that property inspection and maintenance objectives are achieved. The regional offices are important in reducing the time necessary to respond to the needs of the Company's tenants. Leasing and maintenance personnel from the corporate office also conduct regular inspections of each shopping center. 

As of December 31, 2007, the Company also employs a total of 44 persons at several of its larger properties in order to more effectively administer its maintenance and security responsibilities. 

Qualification as a REIT  

The Company has elected, commencing with its taxable year which began January 1, 1992, to qualify as a REIT under the Code. If, as the Company believes, it is organized and operates in such a manner so as to qualify and remain qualified as a REIT under the Code, the Company generally will not be subject to federal income tax, provided that distributions to its stockholders equal at least the amount of its REIT taxable income as defined under the Code. 

In connection with the RMA, the Company’s taxable subsidiaries may participate in activities from which the Company was previously precluded, subject to certain limitations. The primary activities of the Company’s taxable REIT subsidiaries during 2007 included, but were not limited to, (i) the ground-up development of shopping center properties and subsequent sale thereof upon completion (see Recent Developments - Ground-Up Development), (ii) real estate advisory and disposition services, including the Company’s investment in Albertson’s described below and (iii) acting as an agent or principal in connection with tax deferred exchange transactions. The Company was subject to federal and state income taxes on the income from these activities. 

Recent Developments 

The following describes the Company’s significant transactions completed during the year ended December 31, 2007. (See Notes 3, 4 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

8 

Operating Properties - - 

Acquisitions - - 

During 2007, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 43 operating properties, comprising an aggregate 3.6 million square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.0 billion, including the assumption of approximately $114.3 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering nine of the properties. 

Dispositions - - 

During 2007, the Company (i) disposed of six operating properties and completed partial sales of three operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $40.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate net gain of approximately $6.4 million, after income tax of approximately $1.6 million, and (ii) transferred one operating property, which was acquired in the first quarter of 2007, to a joint venture in which the Company holds a 15% non-controlling ownership interest for an aggregate price of approximately $4.5 million, which represented the net book value. 

Additionally, during 2007, two consolidated joint ventures in which the Company had preferred equity investments disposed of, in separate transactions, their respective properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $66.5 million. As a result of these capital transactions, the Company received approximately $22.1 million of profit participation, before minority interest of approximately $5.6 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 

Redevelopments - 

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. During 2007, the Company substantially completed the redevelopment and re-tenanting of various operating properties. The Company expended approximately $70.1 million in connection with these major redevelopments and re-tenanting projects during 2007. The Company is currently involved in redeveloping several other shopping centers in the existing portfolio. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects will be approximately $90.0 million to $110.0 million during 2008.  

Ground-Up Development - 

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) merchant building through the Company’s wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries, which develop neighborhood and community shopping centers and the subsequent sale thereof upon completion, (ii) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (iii) various ground-up development projects located in Mexico for long-term investment (see Recent Developments - International Real Estate Investments and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). The ground-up development projects generally have significant pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had in progress a total of 60 ground-up development projects including 27 merchant building projects, nine U.S. ground-up development projects, and 24 ground-up development projects located throughout Mexico. 

Merchant Building - 

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had in progress 27 merchant building projects located in 13 states. During 2007, the Company expended approximately $269.6 million in connection with the purchase of land and construction costs related to these projects and those sold during 2007. As part of the Company’s ongoing analysis of its merchant building projects, the Company has determined that for two of its projects, located in Jacksonville, FL and Anchorage, AK, the recoverable value will not exceed their estimated cost. This is primarily due to adverse changes in local market conditions and the uncertainty of those conditions in the future. As a result, the Company has recorded an aggregate pre-tax adjustment of property carrying value on these projects for the year ended December 31, 2007, of $8.5 million, representing the excess of the carrying values of the projects over their estimated fair values. 

9 

The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward its merchant building projects will be approximately $200.0 million to $250.0 million during 2008. The proceeds from the sale of completed ground-up development projects during 2008, proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements. 

Acquisitions - 

During 2007, the Company acquired six land parcels, in separate transactions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $69.8 million. The estimated project costs for these newly acquired parcels are approximately $95.2 million with completion dates ranging from October 2008 to June 2010.  

During 2007, the Company obtained individual construction loans on five merchant building projects and assumed one loan in connection with the acquisition of a merchant building project. Additionally, the Company repaid construction loans on three merchant building projects. At December 31, 2007, total loan commitments on the Company’s 15 outstanding construction loans aggregated approximately $360.3 million of which approximately $245.9 million has been funded. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from one month to 33 months (excluding any extension options which may be available to the Company) and bear interest at rates ranging from 6.78% to 7.48% at December 31, 2007. 

Dispositions - 

During 2007, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) four of its recently completed merchant building projects, (ii) 26 out-parcels, (iii) 74.3 acres of undeveloped land and (iv) completed partial sales of two projects, for an aggregate total proceeds of approximately $310.5 million and received approximately $3.3 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on previously sold projects. These sales resulted in pre-tax gains of approximately $40.1 million. 

U.S. Long-Term Investment Projects - - 

During 2007, the Company expended approximately $7.7 million in connection with the purchase of undeveloped land in Union, NJ, which will be developed into a 0.2 million square foot retail center and approximately $21.5 million in connection with the purchase of three redevelopment properties located in Bronx, NY, which will be redeveloped into mixed-use residential/retail centers aggregating 0.1 million square feet. 

As of December 31, 2007, the Company had in progress a total of nine U.S. long-term investment projects. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these projects will be approximately $60.0 million to $80.0 million during 2008. The proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements. 

Kimsouth - 

During June 2006, Kimsouth, a consolidated taxable REIT subsidiary in which the Company holds a 92.5% controlling interest, contributed approximately $51.0 million to fund its 15% non-controlling interest in a newly formed joint venture with an investment group to acquire a portion of Albertson’s Inc. To maximize investment returns, the investment group’s strategy with respect to this joint venture, includes refinancing, selling selected stores and enhancing operations at the remaining stores. During 2007, this joint venture completed the disposition of certain operating stores and a refinancing of the remaining assets in the joint venture. As a result of these transactions Kimsouth received cash distributions of approximately $148.6 million. Kimsouth has a remaining capital commitment obligation to fund up to an additional $15.0 million for general purposes. Due to this remaining capital commitment, $15.0 million is included in Other liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

During 2007, Kimsouth’s income from the Albertson’s joint venture aggregated approximately $49.6 million, net of income tax. This amount includes (i) an operating loss of approximately $15.1 million, net of an income tax benefit of approximately $10.1 million, (ii) distribution in excess of Kimsouth’s investment of approximately $10.4 million, net  

10 

of income tax expense of approximately $6.9 million and (iii) an extraordinary gain of approximately $54.3 million, net of income tax expense of approximately $36.2 million, resulting from purchase price allocation adjustments. Additionally, the Company reduced the valuation allowance that was applied against the Kimsouth net operating losses ("NOLs") resulting in an income tax benefit of approximately $31.2 million. (See Notes 3 and 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2007, the Albertson’s joint venture acquired two operating properties for approximately $20.3 million, including the assumption of $18.5 million in non-recourse mortgage debt. 

Investment and Advances in Real Estate Joint Ventures -  

The Company has various institutional and non-institutional joint venture programs in which the Company has various non-controlling interests which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. (See Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Acquisitions - 

During 2007, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 171 operating properties, through joint ventures in which the Company has various non-controlling interests for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.7 billion, including the assumption of approximately $867.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering 158 of the properties and $177.5 million in proceeds from unsecured credit facilities obtained by two of the joint ventures. The Company’s aggregate investment in these joint ventures was approximately $235.8 million. 

Dispositions -  

During 2007, joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests disposed of, in separate transactions, (i) 44 properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $1.3 billion resulting in an aggregate gain of approximately $145.0 million, of which the Company’s share was approximately $56.6 million and (ii) two vacant parcels of land for an aggregate sales price of $6.7 million, which represented their net book value. 

Additionally, during 2007, joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests transferred 17 operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $825.2 million, including approximately $427.1 million of non-recourse mortgage debt, to newly formed joint ventures in which the Company holds 15% non-controlling ownership interests and manages. As a result of these transactions, the Company recognized profit participation of approximately $3.7 million and deferred its share of the gain related to its remaining ownership interest in the properties.  

Also, during 2007, joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests sold six operating properties to the Company for a sales price of approximately $151.9 million including the assumption of $50.3 million in non-recourse mortgage debt. The Company’s share of the gain related to these transactions has been deferred. 

International Real Estate Investments -  

Canadian Investments - - 

During 2007, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, two operating properties located in Canada, through newly formed joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests. These properties were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately CAD $23.0 million (approximately USD $21.2 million). The Company’s aggregate investment in these joint ventures was approximately CAD $11.5 million (approximately USD $10.7 million). 

During 2007, the Company provided, through five separate Canadian preferred equity investments, an aggregate of approximately CAD $28.0 million (approximately USD $27.6 million) to developers and owners of 17 real estate properties. 

The Company generated equity in income from its unconsolidated Canadian investments in real estate joint ventures of approximately $22.5 million and $21.1 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, income from other unconsolidated Canadian real estate investments was approximately $35.1 million and $13.9 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

11 

Mexican Investments - 

During 2007, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 18 operating properties located in various cities throughout Mexico, comprising an aggregate 0.8 million square feet of GLA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 1.0 billion Mexican Pesos ("MXP") (approximately USD $90.4 million). (See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

During 2007, the Company transferred in separate transactions, 50% of its 100% interest in seven projects located in Juarez, Tecamac, Mexicali, Cuaulta, Ciudad Del Carmen, Tijuana and Rosarito, Mexico to a joint venture partner for approximately $48.3 million, which approximated their carrying values. As a result of these transactions, the Company has deconsolidated these entities and now accounts for its investments under the equity method of accounting. 

During 2007, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, nine land parcels located in various cities throughout Mexico, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately MXP 1.1 billion (approximately USD $94.8 million). Seven of these land parcels will be developed into retail centers aggregating approximately 2.8 million square feet of GLA with a total estimated aggregate project cost of approximately MXP 2.3 billion (approximately USD $210.2 million). 

During 2007, the Company acquired, through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a controlling ownership interest, a 0.3 million square foot development project in Neuvo Vallarta, Mexico, for a purchase price of approximately MXP 119.5 million (approximately USD $11.0 million). Total estimated project costs are approximately USD $28.3 million. 

During 2007, the Company acquired, through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a non-controlling interest, a 0.1 million square foot development project in Mexico, for a purchase price of MXP 48.6 million (approximately USD $4.4 million). Total estimated project costs are approximately USD $14.4 million. 

During 2007, the Company acquired, in separate transactions, 21 operating properties located in various cities throughout Mexico, through joint ventures in which the Company has non-controlling interests. These properties were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately MXP 1.4 billion (approximately USD $128.7 million). The Company’s aggregate investment in these joint ventures was approximately MXP 701.5 million (approximately USD $64.4 million). 

The Company recognized equity in income from its unconsolidated Mexican investments in real estate joint ventures of approximately $5.2 million and $11.8 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

The Company’s revenues from its consolidated Mexican subsidiaries aggregated approximately $8.5 million and $2.4 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. 

Chilean Investments - - 

During April 2007, the Company acquired four operating properties located in Santiago, Chile, through a newly formed joint venture in which the Company has a non-controlling interest. These properties were acquired for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 8.7 billion Chilean Pesos ("CLP") (approximately USD $16.5 million), including the assumption of CLP 5.9 billion (approximately USD $11.1 million) of non-recourse mortgage debt. The Company’s aggregate investment in this joint venture is approximately CLP 1.6 billion (approximately USD $3.0 million). The Company recognized equity in income from this investment of approximately $0.1 million during 2007. 

Other Real Estate Investments - 

Preferred Equity Capital - 

The Company maintains a Preferred Equity program, which provides capital to developers and owners of real estate properties. During 2007, the Company provided in separate transactions, an aggregate of approximately $103.6 million in investment capital to developers and owners of 61 real estate properties, including the Canadian investments described above. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity program was  

12 

approximately $484.1 million relating to 258 properties. For the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company earned approximately $63.5 million, including $30.5 million of profit participation earned from 18 capital transactions from these investments. 

Additionally, during July 2007, the Company invested approximately $81.7 million of preferred equity capital in a portfolio comprised of 403 net leased properties which are divided into 30 master leased pools with each pool leased to individual corporate operators. These properties consist of a diverse array of free-standing restaurants, fast food restaurants, convenience and auto parts stores. As of December 31, 2007 these properties were encumbered by third party loans aggregating approximately $433.0 million with interest rates ranging from 5.08% to 10.47% with a weighted average interest rate of 9.3% and maturities ranging from 1.4 years to 15.2 years.  

Mortgages and Other Financing Receivables - 

During 2007, the Company provided financing to six borrowers for an aggregate amount of up to approximately $96.9 million, of which $62.2 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has 30 loans with total commitments of up to $185.0 million of which approximately $152.4 million has been funded. Availability under the Company’s revolving credit facilities are expected to be sufficient to fund these commitments. (See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Financing Transactions - 

For discussion regarding financing transactions relating to the Company’s unsecured notes, credit facilities, non-recourse mortgage debt, construction loans and preferred stock issuance, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition - Financing Activities and Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments. (See Notes 11, 12, 13 and 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Exchange Listings 

The Company's common stock, Class F Depositary Shares and Class G Depositary Shares are traded on the NYSE under the trading symbols "KIM", "KIMprF" and “KIMprG”, respectively. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors