ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.  

Our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including:  

   •   timely completion of new product designs;    

   •   ability to generate new design opportunities or design wins;    

   •   availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products;    

   •   ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 45-nm and smaller;    

   •   achieving acceptable yields;    

   •   ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and test subcontractors;    

   •   ability to obtain advanced packaging;    

   •   availability of supporting software design tools;    

   •   utilization of predefined IP cores of logic;    

   •   customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and    

   •   market acceptance of our customers’ products.    

11   
Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  

We rely on independent foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our operations.  

Nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), or in Japan, by Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba). In addition, the wafers for our older products are manufactured in Japan by Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko) and the wafers for some of our newer products are manufactured in South Korea, by Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due to limitations of new and existing process technologies. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products. In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we experienced supply shortages due to the difficulties encountered by the foundries in rapidly increasing their production capacities from low utilization levels to high utilization levels because of an unexpected increase in demand. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we also experienced supply shortages due to very strong demand for our products and a surge in demand for semiconductors in general, which has led to tightening of foundry capacity across the industry. The insolvency of a foundry or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.  

We have established other sources of wafer supply for many of our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers. However, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships require the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our results of operations.  

General economic conditions and the related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.  

During the past two years, global consumer confidence eroded amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. These concerns slowed global economic growth and resulted in recessions in numerous countries, including many of those in North America, Europe and Asia. These economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2010 due to reduced customer demand. While there have been recent improvements in global economic conditions and our results of operations improved during the second half of fiscal 2010, there is no guarantee that these improvements will continue in the future. If unpredictable economic conditions persist or worsen, a number of negative effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability.  

The semiconductor industry is characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn could adversely affect our operating results.  

The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the industry, including the current downturn. Down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has resulted in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory write-downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market in which we operate make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results are not reliable predictors of our future results.  

12   
The nature of our business makes our revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our business.  

In addition to the challenging market conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends upon our products being designed into our end customers’ products and those products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our customers’ designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are dependent upon “turns,” orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted, in inventory write-downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands. In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.  

If we are not able to successfully compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be adversely affected.  

Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera, Lattice and Actel, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic IC industry include:  

   •   product pricing;    

   •   time-to-market;    

   •   product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density;    

   •   field upgradeability;    

   •   adaptability of products to specific applications;    

   •   ease of use and functionality of software design tools;    

   •   availability and functionality of predefined IP cores of logic;    

   •   inventory and supply chain management;    

   •   access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and    

   •   ability to provide timely customer service and support.    

Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies.  

Other competitors include manufacturers of:  

   •   high-density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures;    

   •   high-volume and low-cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs;    

   •   ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic;    

   •   high-speed, low-density CPLDs;    

   •   high-performance DSP devices;    

   •   products with embedded processors;    

   •   products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and    

   •   other new or emerging programmable logic products.    

Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell PLD products. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.  

The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to this segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in this segment.  

13   
We could also face competition from our licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future. Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market products that may be competitive with some of our older products.  

Increased costs of wafers and materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our gross margins and lead to reduced revenues.  

If greater demand for wafers is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at production and test facilities and our resulting potential inability to address customer product demands in a timely manner. Such increases in wafer prices or materials could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands and lead to reduced revenue.  

We depend on distributors, primarily Avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment.  

Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 49% of our worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2010, and as of April 3, 2010, Avnet accounted for 83% of our total accounts receivable. In addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. A significant reduction of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we terminated our relationship with one of our North American-based distributors. As a result, we are increasingly dependent on our relationship with Avnet. Any adverse change to our relationship with Avnet or our remaining distributors could have a material impact on our business. Furthermore, if a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to perform, our business and financial results would suffer.  

In addition, the financial health of our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. This could result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk exposure. Our business could be harmed if the financial health of these distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate distributors.  

We are dependent on independent subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.  

We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands. In addition, unpredictable economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their commitments to us. These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.  

A number of factors can impact our gross margins.  

A number of factors, including yield, wafer pricing, product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition, forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business is based on turns within the same quarter.  

Reductions in the average selling prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins.  

The average selling prices of our products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost reductions and increased unit sales. We also continue to develop higher value products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average selling price of our products. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins.  

14   
Because of our international business and operations, we are vulnerable to the economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.  

In addition to our U.S. operations, we also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our international customers and distributors, our regional headquarters in Ireland and Singapore and a research and development site in India. In connection with the restructuring we announced in April 2009, our international operations grew as we relocated certain operations and administrative functions outside the U.S. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. We derive over one-half of our revenues from international sales, primarily in the Asia Pacific region, Europe and Japan. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues. While there have been signs of economic recovery in the U.S. and other markets, there can be no assurance that such improvement will continue or is sustainable. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability and volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers’ ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated costs, assets and liabilities. In addition, devaluation of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. Furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability, terrorist activity or U.S. or other military actions could adversely impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.  

We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely affect our business.  

In addition to international sales and support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located outside the U.S. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties associated with international business operations, including tax laws and regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations, duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies, foreign governmental regulations, potential vulnerability of and reduced protection for IP, longer receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Additional factors that could adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of natural resources. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our business.  

We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and financial market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. During this time, the global credit and capital markets experienced significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability.  

While general conditions in the global credit markets have improved, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions.  

15   
Our failure to protect and defend our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete effectively.  

We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, violated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may attempt to misappropriate our IP through electronic or other means or assert infringement claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. Such assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation, indemnity claims or other legal actions and we may not prevail in such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. This could result in the loss of our ability to import and sell our products. Any infringement claim, indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

We rely on information technology systems, and failure of these systems to function properly or unauthorized access to our systems could result in business disruption.  

We rely in part on various information technology (IT) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting, and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing, operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. For example, we recently simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our IT systems. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. These systems are also subject to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failures. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business disruption. We also may be subject to unauthorized access to our IT systems through a security breach or attack. We seek to detect and investigate any security incidents and prevent their recurrence, but in some cases, we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. Our business could be significantly harmed and we could be subject to third party claims in the event of such a security breach.  

Earthquakes and other natural disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

The independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters. UMC’s foundries in Taiwan and Toshiba’s and Seiko’s foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been affected by other natural disasters such as typhoons. Any catastrophic event in these locations will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. This type of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance may not cover losses resulting from such disruptions of our operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, volcano eruptions, fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected.  

We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop.  

We compete with others to attract and retain key personnel, and any loss of, or inability to attract, such personnel would harm us.  

We depend on the efforts and abilities of certain key members of management and other technical personnel. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to retain such personnel and attract and retain other highly qualified personnel, particularly product engineers. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not be successful in hiring or retaining new or existing qualified personnel. From time to time we have effected restructurings which eliminate a number of positions. Even if such personnel are not directly affected by the restructuring effort, such terminations can have a negative impact on morale and our ability to attract and hire new qualified personnel in the future. If we lose existing qualified personnel or are unable to hire new qualified personnel, as needed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed.  

Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.  

From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are discussed under Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” included in Part I, and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks. Should we fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.  

16   
Our products could have defects which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us.  

We develop complex and evolving products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers. Subject to certain terms and conditions, we have agreed to compensate certain customers for limited specified costs they actually incur in the event our hardware products experience epidemic failure. As a result, epidemic failure and other performance problems could result in claims against us, the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses.  

In addition, we could be subject to product liability claims. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business.  

In preparing our financial statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn out to be erroneous.  

In preparing our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U. S., we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories, long-lived assets, goodwill, taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially affected.  

Our failure to comply with the requirements of the International Traffic and Arms Regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  

Based on a recent jurisdictional ruling, certain Xilinx space-grade FPGAs and related technologies are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), which are administered by the U.S. Department of State. The ITAR governs the export and reexport of these FPGAs, the transfer of related technical data and the provision of defense services, as well as offshore production, test and assembly. We are required to maintain an internal compliance program and security infrastructure to meet ITAR requirements.  

An inability to obtain the required export licenses, or to predict when they will be granted, increases the difficulties of forecasting shipments. In addition, security or compliance program failures that could result in penalties or a loss of export privileges, as well as stringent ITAR licensing restrictions that may make our products less attractive to overseas customers, could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or operating results.  

Considerable amounts of our common shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and convertible debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the market price of our common shares.  

As of April 3, 2010, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 273.5 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 54.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our equity incentive plans and Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and 22.6 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the convertible debentures. The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of convertible debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities.  

17   
ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

Not applicable.  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES