ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

This discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Company’s consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Cautionary Statement  

The statements in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis that are forward looking, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, involve numerous risks and uncertainties and are based on current expectations. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including those risks discussed under “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this document. Often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “intend,” “project” and other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis for any reason.  

Nature of Operations  

We design, develop and market programmable platforms, including advanced ICs in the form of PLDs, software design tools and predefined system functions delivered as IP cores. In addition to our programmable platforms, we provide design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. Our PLDs include FPGAs and CPLDs. These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to OEMs by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our most critical accounting policies have a significant impact on the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The SEC has defined critical accounting policies as those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, our critical accounting policies include: valuation of marketable and non-marketable securities, which impacts losses on debt and equity securities when we record impairments; revenue recognition, which impacts the recording of revenues; and valuation of inventories, which impacts cost of revenues and gross margin. Our critical accounting policies also include: the assessment of impairment of long-lived assets, which impacts their valuation; the assessment of the recoverability of goodwill, which impacts goodwill impairment; accounting for income taxes, which impacts the provision or benefit recognized for income taxes, as well as the valuation of deferred tax assets recorded on our consolidated balance sheet; and valuation and recognition of stock-based compensation, which impacts gross margin, research and development (R&D) expenses, and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Below, we discuss these policies further, as well as the estimates and judgments involved. We also have other key accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting.  

Valuation of Marketable and Non-marketable Securities  

Our short-term and long-term investments include marketable debt securities and non-marketable equity securities. As of April 3, 2010, we had marketable debt securities with a fair value of $1.74 billion and non-marketable equity securities in private companies of $17.7 million (adjusted cost).  

We determine the fair values for marketable debt and equity securities using industry standard pricing services, data providers and other third-party sources and by internally performing valuation analyses. See “Note 3. Fair Value Measurements” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for details of the valuation methodologies. In determining if and when a decline in value below adjusted cost of marketable debt and equity securities is other than temporary, we evaluate on an ongoing basis the market conditions, trends of earnings, financial condition, credit ratings, any underlying collateral and other key measures for our investments. We assess other-than-temporary impairment of debt and equity securities in accordance with the latest guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). We recorded an other-than-temporary impairment for marketable debt securities and a marketable equity security in fiscal 2009. We did not record any other-than-temporary impairment for marketable debt or equity securities in fiscal 2010 or 2008.  

23   
Our investments in non-marketable securities of private companies are accounted for by using the cost method. These investments are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis when they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In determining whether a decline in value of non-marketable equity investments in private companies has occurred and is other than temporary, an assessment is made by considering available evidence, including the general market conditions in the investee’s industry, the investee’s product development status and subsequent rounds of financing and the related valuation and/or our participation in such financings. We also assess the investee’s ability to meet business milestones and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the individual investee, including the rate at which the investee is using its cash and the investee’s need for possible additional funding at a lower valuation. The valuation methodology for determining the fair value of non-marketable equity securities is based on the factors noted above which require management judgment and are Level 3 inputs. See “Note 3. Fair Value Measurements” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information. When a decline in value is deemed to be other than temporary, we recognize an impairment loss in the current period’s operating results to the extent of the decline. We recorded other-than-temporary impairments for non-marketable equity securities in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 of $3.8 million, 3.0 million and $ 2.9 million, respectively.  

Revenue Recognition  

Sales to distributors are made under agreements providing distributor price adjustments and rights of return under certain circumstances. Revenue and costs relating to distributor sales are deferred until products are sold by the distributors to the distributors’ end customers. For fiscal 2010, approximately 69% of our net revenues were from products sold to distributors for subsequent resale to OEMs or their subcontract manufacturers. Revenue recognition depends on notification from the distributor that product has been sold to the distributor’s end customer. Also reported by the distributor are product resale price, quantity and end customer shipment information, as well as inventory on hand. Reported distributor inventory on hand is reconciled to deferred revenue balances monthly. We maintain system controls to validate distributor data and to verify that the reported information is accurate. Deferred income on shipments to distributors reflects the effects of distributor price adjustments and the amount of gross margin expected to be realized when distributors sell through product purchased from us. Accounts receivable from distributors are recognized and inventory is relieved when title to inventories transfers, typically upon shipment from Xilinx at which point we have a legally enforceable right to collection under normal payment terms.  

As of April 3, 2010, we had $110.4 million of deferred revenue and $30.3 million of deferred cost of revenues recognized as a net $80.1 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. As of March 28, 2009, we had $90.4 million of deferred revenue and $28.0 million of deferred cost of revenues recognized as a net $62.4 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our consolidated statement of income will be different than the amount shown on the consolidated balance sheet due to actual price adjustments issued to the distributors when the product is sold to their end customers.  

Revenue from sales to our direct customers is recognized upon shipment provided that persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the price is fixed, title has transferred, collection of resulting receivables is reasonably assured, and there are no customer acceptance requirements and no remaining significant obligations. For each of the periods presented, there were no significant formal acceptance provisions with our direct customers.  

Revenue from software licenses is deferred and recognized as revenue over the term of the licenses of one year. Revenue from support services is recognized when the service is performed. Revenue from Support Products, which includes software and services sales, was less than 6% of net revenues for all of the periods presented.  

Allowances for end customer sales returns are recorded based on historical experience and for known pending customer returns or allowances.  

Valuation of Inventories  

Inventories are stated at the lower of actual cost (determined using the first-in, first-out method) or market (estimated net realizable value). The valuation of inventory requires us to estimate excess or obsolete inventory as well as inventory that is not of saleable quality. We review and set standard costs quarterly to approximate current actual manufacturing costs. Our manufacturing overhead standards for product costs are calculated assuming full absorption of actual spending over actual volumes, adjusted for excess capacity. Given the cyclicality of the market, the obsolescence of technology and product lifecycles, we write down inventory based on forecasted demand and technological obsolescence. These factors are impacted by market and economic conditions, technology changes, new product introductions and changes in strategic direction and require estimates that may include uncertain elements. The estimates of future demand that we use in the valuation of inventory are the basis for our published revenue forecasts, which are also consistent with our short-term manufacturing plans. If our demand forecast for specific products is greater than actual demand and we fail to reduce manufacturing output accordingly, we could be required to write down additional inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin.  

24   
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets  

Long-lived assets to be held and used are reviewed for impairment if indicators of potential impairment exist. Impairment indicators are reviewed on a quarterly basis. When indicators of impairment exist and assets are held for use, we estimate future undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets. In the event such cash flows are not expected to be sufficient to recover the recorded value of the assets, the assets are written down to their estimated fair values based on the expected discounted future cash flows attributable to the assets or based on appraisals. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for use include the ability of the specific assets to generate separately identifiable positive cash flows.  

When assets are removed from operations and held for sale, we estimate impairment losses as the excess of the carrying value of the assets over their fair value. Factors affecting impairment of assets held for sale include market conditions. Changes in any of these factors could necessitate impairment recognition in future periods for assets held for use or assets held for sale.  

Long-lived assets such as goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, are considered non-financial assets, and are only measured at fair value when indicators of impairment exist. The accounting and disclosure guidance for fair value measurements established by the FASB became effective for these assets beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. See “Note 3. Fair Value Measurements” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information.  

Goodwill  

As required by the authoritative guidance for goodwill established by the FASB, goodwill is not amortized but is subject to impairment tests on an annual basis, or more frequently if indicators of potential impairment exist, and goodwill is written down when it is determined to be impaired. We perform an annual impairment review in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and compare the fair value of the reporting unit in which the goodwill resides to its carrying value. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, the goodwill of the reporting unit is potentially impaired. For purposes of impairment testing, Xilinx operates as a single reporting unit. We use the quoted market price method to determine the fair value of the reporting unit. Based on the impairment review performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, there was no impairment of goodwill in fiscal 2010. Unless there are indicators of impairment, our next impairment review for goodwill will be performed and completed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011. To date, no impairment indicators have been identified.  

Accounting for Income Taxes  

Xilinx is a multinational corporation operating in multiple tax jurisdictions. We must determine the allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on estimates and assumptions and apply the appropriate tax rates for these jurisdictions. We undergo routine audits by taxing authorities regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Tax audits often require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the allocation are required between jurisdictions with different tax rates.  

In determining income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax liabilities and in the determination of the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. Additionally, we must estimate the amount and likelihood of potential losses arising from audits or deficiency notices issued by taxing authorities. The taxing authorities’ positions and our assessment can change over time resulting in a material effect on the provision for income taxes in periods when these changes occur.  

We must also assess the likelihood that we will be able to recover our deferred tax assets. If recovery is not likely, we must increase our provision for taxes by recording a reserve in the form of a valuation allowance for the deferred tax assets that we estimate will not ultimately be recoverable.  

We perform a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions relating to accounting for income taxes. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being ultimately realized. See “Note 16. Income Taxes” to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

25   
Stock-Based Compensation  

Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected stock price volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, expected forfeiture rate and expected risk-free rate of return. We use implied volatility based on traded options in the open market as we believe implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility. In determining the appropriateness of implied volatility, we considered: the volume of market activity of traded options, and determined there was sufficient market activity; the ability to reasonably match the input variables of traded options to those of options granted by us, such as date of grant and the exercise price, and determined the input assumptions were comparable; and the length of term of traded options used to derive implied volatility, which is generally one to two years and which was extrapolated to match the expected term of the employee options granted by us, and determined the length of the option term was reasonable. The expected life of options granted is based on the historical exercise activity as well as the expected disposition of all options outstanding. We will continue to review our input assumptions and make changes as deemed appropriate depending on new information that becomes available. Higher volatility and expected lives result in a proportional increase to stock-based compensation determined at the date of grant. The expected dividend rate and expected risk-free rate of return do not have as significant an effect on the calculation of fair value.  

In addition, we developed an estimate of the number of stock-based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate have an effect on reported stock-based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease to the expense recognized in the financial statements. If the actual forfeiture rate is lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in an increase to the expense recognized in the financial statements. The impact of forfeiture true up and forfeiture rate estimates in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 reduced stock-based compensation expense by $16.7 million, $15.8 million and $8.4 million, respectively. The expense we recognize in future periods could also differ significantly from the current period and/or our forecasts due to adjustments in the assumed forfeiture rates.  

Results of Operations  

The following table sets forth statement of income data as a percentage of net revenues for the fiscal years indicated:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   We adopted the authoritative guidance of accounting for convertible debentures beginning in fiscal 2010. Prior results have been retrospectively adjusted in accordance with such guidance (see Notes 2 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”).   

26   
Net Revenues  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net revenues in fiscal 2010 were essentially flat with fiscal 2009. Revenues in the last two quarters of fiscal 2010 were substantially higher than revenues in the first two quarters of the year. The first two quarters of fiscal 2010 were adversely impacted by economic conditions, and were also substantially lower than the same periods of the prior fiscal year. New Product revenues increased considerably in fiscal 2010 but were offset by the declines in Mainstream, Base and Support products. The 1% decline in net revenues in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008 was largely due to the recessionary environment we experienced during the fiscal year which impacted our sales across a broad base of end markets. In fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, total unit sales declined and average selling price per unit increased compared to the comparable prior year periods. See “Net Revenues by Product” and “Net Revenues by End Markets” below for more information on our product and end-market categories.  

No end customer accounted for more than 10% of net revenues for any of the periods presented.  

Net Revenues by Product  

We sell our products to global manufacturers of electronic products in end markets such as wired and wireless communications, aerospace and defense, industrial, scientific and medical and audio, video and broadcast. The vast majority of our net revenues are generated by sales of our semiconductor products, but we also generate sales from support products. We classify our product offerings into four categories: New, Mainstream, Base and Support Products. The composition of each product category is as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

   •   Mainstream Products include the Virtex-4, Spartan-3, Spartan-II and CoolRunner™-II product families.    

   •   Base Products consist of our older product families including the Virtex, Virtex-E, Virtex-II, Spartan, XC4000, CoolRunner and XC9500 products.    

   •   Support Products include configuration products (PROMs), software, IP cores, customer training, design services and support.    

These product categories, except for Support Products, are modified on a periodic basis to better reflect the age of the products and advances in technology. The most recent modification was made on March 29, 2009, which was the beginning of our fiscal 2010. Amounts for the prior periods presented have been reclassified to conform to the new categorization. New Products include our most recent product offerings and are typically designed into our customers’ latest generation of electronic systems. Mainstream Products are generally several years old and designed into customer programs that are currently shipping in full production. Base Products are older than Mainstream Products with demand generated generally by the oldest customer systems still in production. Support Products are generally products or services sold in conjunction with our semiconductor devices to aid customers in the design process.  

Net revenues by product categories for the fiscal years indicated were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net revenues from New Products increased significantly in fiscal 2010 due to continued strong market acceptance of these products, particularly our 65-nm Virtex-5 product family. Sales from Virtex-5 nearly doubled in fiscal 2010. In addition, design win activity is strong for our next generation product families which include our high-end, 40-nm Virtex-6 field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and our high-volume, 45-nm Spartan-6 FPGAs. We expect these New Product families to contribute significantly to the growth in New Product revenues over time. In fiscal 2009, Virtex-5 and Spartan-3E contributed to the majority of the revenue growth versus the comparable prior year period.  

Net revenues from Mainstream Products declined in fiscal 2010 due to lower demand associated with the weakened economic conditions during the first half of the fiscal year. Net revenues from Mainstream Products increased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to increased sales of our Virtex-4 product family.  

The decline in net revenues from Base Products in fiscal 2010 and 2009 was expected since these products are mature and approaching the end of life.  

Net revenues from Support Products decreased in fiscal 2010 from the comparable prior year period due to a decline in revenues from both our PROMs and software products. Net revenues from Support Products decreased in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year period primarily due to a decline in sales from our PROM products.  

27   
Net Revenues by End Markets  

Our end market revenue data is derived from our understanding of our end customers’ primary markets. We classify our net revenues by end markets into four categories: Communications, Industrial and Other, Consumer and Automotive, and Data Processing. The percentage change calculation in the table below represents the year-to-year dollar change in each end market.  

Net revenues by end markets for the fiscal years indicated were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net revenues from Communications, our largest end market, increased in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year periods due to higher sales from wireless communication applications.  

In fiscal 2010, the decrease in net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market from the comparable prior year period was primarily driven by weaker sales in industrial, scientific and medical applications as well as test and measurement applications during the first half of the fiscal year. Net revenues from the Industrial and Other end market increased slightly in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period due to strong sales growth from aerospace and defense and industrial, scientific and medical applications. However, this growth was offset considerably by weakness in test and measurement applications.  

Net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market decreased in fiscal 2010 from the comparable prior year period primarily due to decreased sales in audio, video and broadcast and consumer applications. Net revenues from the Consumer and Automotive end market decreased in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year period due to weaker sales from audio, video and broadcast and automotive applications, which were partially offset by an increase in sales from consumer applications.  

In fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, net revenues from the Data Processing end market declined from the comparable prior year periods due to decreases in sales from computing and data processing applications.  

Net Revenues by Geography  

Geographic revenue information reflects the geographic location of the distributors or OEMs who purchased our products. This may differ from the geographic location of the end customers. Net revenues by geography for the fiscal years indicated were as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Net revenues in North America were essentially flat in fiscal 2010 compared with the prior year period. Lower sales from the Consumer and Automotive end market offset strength in each of the other end markets including Communications, Industrial and Other and Data Processing. Net revenues in North America decreased in fiscal 2009 primarily due to lower sales from the Communications end market.  

Net revenues in Asia Pacific increased in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. The increases were driven by strength in the Communications end market, primarily from the deployment of next generation wireless applications in China.  

Net revenues in Europe decreased in fiscal 2010 due to weaker sales in most end market applications with the exception of wireless communication and automotive applications. Net revenues in Europe increased in fiscal 2009 compared with the prior year period primarily due to strength in wireless communication applications.  

Net revenues in Japan decreased in fiscal 2010 due to broad-based weakness across all end market categories. The fiscal 2009 decline was due to broad-based weakness across most end market categories with the exception of the Consumer and Automotive end market.  

28   
Gross Margin  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Gross margin percentage in fiscal 2010 was essentially flat from the comparable prior year period as cost savings related to yield improvement and overall restructuring effort were offset by the strength of New Products. New Products generally have lower gross margins than Mainstream and Base Products as they are in the early stage of their product life cycle and have higher unit costs associated with relatively lower volumes and early manufacturing maturity.  

The increase in the gross margin percentage in fiscal 2009 from the comparable prior year period was driven primarily by product cost reductions, higher average selling prices per unit and improved operational efficiency.  

Gross margin may be affected in the future by product mix shifts, competitive-pricing pressure, manufacturing-yield issues and wafer pricing. We expect to mitigate any adverse impacts from these factors by continuing to improve yields on our New Products and by improving manufacturing efficiencies.  

Sales of inventory previously written off were not material during fiscal 2010, 2009 or 2008. 

In order to compete effectively, we pass manufacturing cost reductions on to our customers in the form of reduced prices to the extent that we can maintain acceptable margins. Price erosion is common in the semiconductor industry, as advances in both product architecture and manufacturing process technology permit continual reductions in unit cost. We have historically been able to offset much of this revenue decline in our mature products with increased revenues from newer products.  

Research and Development  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

R&D spending increased $14.1 million or 4% during fiscal 2010 compared to the same period last year. The increase was mainly due to increased mask and wafer spending in fiscal 2010 associated with the introduction of the Virtex 6 and Spartan 6 product families.  

R&D spending decreased $2.7 million or 1% during fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was attributable to lower mask and wafer spending and reduced stock-based compensation expense, which was partially offset by increased outside services to support our investments in new product development.  

We plan to continue to selectively invest in R&D efforts in areas such as new products and more advanced process development, IP cores and the development of new design and layout software. We will also consider acquisitions to complement our strategy for technology leadership and engineering resources in critical areas.  

Selling, General and Administrative  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

SG&A expenses decreased $16.2 million or 5% during fiscal 2010 compared to the same period last year. The decrease was primarily due to headcount reduction as a result of restructuring measures taken during fiscal 2010, partially offset by higher litigation related expenses (see Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data).”  

SG&A expenses decreased $21.5 million or 6% during fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to headcount reduction as a result of a functional reorganization announced during fiscal 2009, lower sales commissions and lower stock-based compensation expense, which was partially offset by higher litigation costs.  

29   
Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangibles  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Amortization expense was related to the intangible assets acquired from prior acquisitions. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2010 from the same period last year, due to the complete amortization of all intangible assets in fiscal 2010. Amortization expense for these intangible assets decreased for fiscal 2009 from the same period last year, due to the complete amortization of certain intangible assets in fiscal 2009.  

Restructuring Charges  

During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we announced restructuring measures designed to drive structural operating efficiencies across the Company. We completed this restructuring plan by the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, and reduced our global workforce by approximately 200 positions, or about 6%. These employee terminations impacted various geographies and functions worldwide. We recorded total restructuring charges of $30.1 million in fiscal 2010, primarily related to severance costs and benefits expenses.  

The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual activity for fiscal 2010:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

These fiscal 2010 charges above, as well as fiscal 2009 charges included in the table below, have been shown separately as restructuring charges on the consolidated statements of income. The remaining accrual as of April 3, 2010 primarily relates to severance costs and benefits that are expected to be paid during the first quarter of fiscal 2011.  

We estimate that severance costs and benefits expenses incurred in the fiscal 2010 restructuring will result in gross annual cash savings relating to employee compensation of approximately $23.0 million before taxes. We began realizing cash savings associated with the restructuring, primarily within the SG&A and R&D expense categories, beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, but we do not expect to fully realize the cash savings benefit until fiscal 2011. There can be no assurance that these expected future savings will be completely realized as they may be partially offset by increases in other expenses. In addition, we estimate cumulative stock-based compensation expense savings of approximately $6.6 million through fiscal 2013 as a result of the fiscal 2010 restructuring. The vast majority of the stock-based compensation expense savings already occurred in fiscal 2010. Future stock-based compensation expense may increase depending on other factors, primarily the number of shares to be granted, fair value of the future stock awards under equity incentive plans (which are primarily impacted by our then market price of the common stock and stock price volatility) and the impact of future award forfeitures.  

During the first quarter of fiscal 2009, we announced a functional reorganization pursuant to which we eliminated 249 positions, or approximately 7% of our global workforce. These employee terminations occurred across various geographies and functions worldwide. The reorganization plan was completed by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2009.  

We recorded total restructuring charges of $22.0 million in connection with the reorganization in fiscal 2009. These charges consisted of $20.5 million of severance costs and benefits expenses and $1.5 million of facility-related costs.  

The following table summarizes the restructuring accrual activity for fiscal 2009:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

30   
Stock-Based Compensation  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The $2.0 million increase in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2010 as compared to the same period last year was due to an increase in the number of shares granted, which was partly offset by declining weighted-average fair values of stock awards vesting and an increase in the number of shares cancelled due to the fiscal 2010 restructuring. The $11.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2009 as compared to the same period last year was due to a decrease in the number of shares granted, declining weighted-average fair values of stock awards vesting and an increase in the number of shares cancelled due to the fiscal 2009 restructuring.  

Gain on Early Extinguishment of Convertible Debentures  

During fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million in cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures and recognized a gain on early extinguishment of convertible debentures of $75.0 million, net of the write-off of the pro rata portions of unamortized debt discount and issuance costs of $41.5 million and unamortized derivative valuation of $736 thousand. Accrued interest paid at the time of repurchases totaled $2.4 million.  

Beginning in fiscal 2010, we retrospectively adopted the authoritative guidance for convertible debentures issued by the FASB. The authoritative guidance specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments should separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of such instruments in a manner that reflects the borrowing rate for a similar non-convertible debt. See “Adoption of New Accounting Standard for Convertible Debentures” included in “Note 2. Basis of Presentation” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Part 1. “Financial Information,” for further information relating to the adoption.  

Impairment Loss on Investments  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We recorded an impairment loss on investments in non-marketable equity securities of $3.8 million and $2.9 million for fiscal 2010 and 2008, respectively, due to the weak financial condition of certain investees. We recognized impairment losses on investments of $54.1 million during fiscal 2009, which consisted of $51.1 million impairment losses related to marketable debt and equity securities and $3.0 million impairment losses in non-marketable equity securities.  

Of the $54.1 million impairment loss recognized during fiscal 2009, $38.0 million was related to senior class asset-backed securities where the issuer went into receivership. The receiver subsequently sought judicial interpretation of a provision of a legal document governing the issuer’s securities. As a result of the outcome of the judicial determination, the receiver immediately liquidated the substantial majority of the issuer’s assets, and in accordance with the court order, the proceeds were used to repay short-term liabilities in the order in which they fell due. In December 2008, the receiver reported to the issuer’s creditors the outcome of the judicial determination and that the issuer’s liabilities substantially exceeded its assets. As a result, the receiver estimated that the issuer would not be able to pay any liabilities falling due after October 2008 regardless of the seniority or status of the securities. Based on these developments, we concluded that it was not likely that we would recover the balance of our investment. This decline in fair value was deemed to be other than temporary and, therefore, we recognized an impairment loss of $38.0 million on these securities during fiscal 2009. In October 2009, a higher court reversed the initial judicial interpretation and determined that the proceeds should be used to repay short-term liabilities on a pari passu basis. Given the significant liabilities of the issuer, it is uncertain whether we will recover any of our original investment. We have not recognized any amount that may be due back to us.  

We also recognized an additional impairment loss of $10.0 million on marketable debt securities in our investment portfolio during fiscal 2009, $9.0 million of which was due to the bankruptcy filing by one of the issuers of the marketable debt securities.  

In addition to the aforementioned amounts, we recorded $3.1 million of impairment loss in marketable equity securities investment during fiscal 2009 as a result of the continued decline in its market value, which led us to believe that the decline in the market value was other than temporary. Furthermore, during the same period, we recorded $3.0 million of write down of our investment in non-marketable equity securities in private companies, which was recorded due primarily to the weak financial condition of certain investees.  

31   
Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   As adjusted for the retrospective adoption of the accounting standard for convertible debentures in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 (see Notes 2 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”).   

The decrease in interest and other income (expense), net in fiscal 2010 over the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in interest rates earned on the investment portfolio. The average interest rate yield on our investments decreased by over 2.5 percentage points year-over-year. The decrease in interest and other income (expense), net in fiscal 2009 over the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in interest rates and a smaller investment portfolio. The average interest rate yield on our investments decreased by approximately 2.0 percentage points year-over-year. Interest expense also decreased in fiscal 2009 and further in 2010 due to the fact that we repurchased our debentures in the third and fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. See “Note 12. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Provision for Income Taxes  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 *   As adjusted for the retrospective adoption of the accounting standard for convertible debentures in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 (see Notes 2 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”).   

The effective tax rates in all years reflected the favorable impact of foreign income at statutory rates less than the U.S. rate and tax credits earned.  

The decrease in the effective tax rate in fiscal 2010, when compared with fiscal 2009, was due to an increase in the amount permanently reinvested outside the U. S. in fiscal 2010 for which no U.S. taxes have been provided, thereby reducing the rates for the period, compounded by an increase in the fiscal 2009 rate for the gain on early extinguishment of debentures taxable at U.S. tax rates. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 was flat when compared with fiscal 2008, as the recognized gain on the early extinguishment of debentures was offset by the benefit of retroactive extension of the research credit in fiscal 2009.  

The IRS examined our tax returns for fiscal 1996 through 2001. Except to the extent there is a further appeal by the IRS, all issues have been settled with the IRS in this matter as described below.  

On August 30, 2005, the Tax Court issued its opinion concerning whether the value of stock options must be included in the cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. The Tax Court agreed with us that no amount for stock options was to be included in the cost sharing agreement. Accordingly, there were no additional taxes, penalties or interest due for this issue. The Tax Court entered its decision on May 31, 2006. On August 25, 2006, the IRS appealed the decision to the Appeals Court. On May 27, 2009, we received a 2-1 adverse judicial ruling from the Appeals Court reversing the Tax Court decision and holding that we should include stock option amounts in our cost sharing agreement with Xilinx Ireland. On January 13, 2010, the Appeals Court issued an order withdrawing both the majority and dissent opinions that were issued on May 27, 2009. On March 22, 2010, the Appeals Court, in a 2-1 majority opinion, affirmed the Tax Court decision in Xilinx’s favor.  

In a separate matter, on December 8, 2008, the IRS issued a statutory notice of deficiency reflecting proposed audit adjustments for fiscal 2005. We began negotiations with the IRS Appeals Division on this matter in the third quarter of fiscal 2010. On March 22, 2010, we settled the proposed adjustment related to acquired technology with no net change in tax liability. See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” included in Part I and “Note 16. Income Taxes” and “Note 18. Litigation Settlements and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We have historically used a combination of cash flows from operations and equity and debt financing to support ongoing business activities, acquire or invest in critical or complementary technologies, purchase facilities and capital equipment, repurchase our common stock and debentures under our repurchase program, pay dividends and finance working capital. Additionally, our investments in debt securities are available for future sale.  

32   
Fiscal 2010 Compared to Fiscal 2009  

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term and Long-term Investments  

The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments as of April 3, 2010 and March 28, 2009 totaled $1.97 billion and $1.67 billion, respectively. As of April 3, 2010, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.39 billion and working capital of $1.55 billion. Cash provided by operations of $554.3 million for fiscal 2010 was $111.8 million higher than the $442.5 million generated during fiscal 2009. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2010 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, increases in accrued liabilities, accounts payable and deferred income on shipment to distributors, which were partially offset by increases in accounts receivable, other assets, inventories and prepaid and other current assets as well as a decrease in income taxes payable.  

Net cash used in investing activities was $336.7 million during fiscal 2010, as compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $274.5 million in fiscal 2009. Net cash used in investing activities during fiscal 2010 consisted of $306.3 million of net purchases of available-for-sale securities and $28.2 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $2.3 million of other investing activities.  

Net cash used in financing activities was $252.1 million in fiscal 2010, as compared to $518.1 million in fiscal 2009. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2010 consisted of $150.0 million for the repurchase of common stock, $165.6 million for dividend payments to stockholders and $1.3 million for reduction of tax benefits from stock-based compensation. These items were partially offset by $64.9 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans.  

Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments increased by 21% from $216.4 million at the end of fiscal 2009 to $262.7 million at the end of fiscal 2010. Days sales outstanding increased to 53 days as of April 3, 2010 from 43 days as of March 28, 2009. The increases were primarily attributable to increase in net shipments at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009.  

Inventories  

Inventories increased from $119.8 million as of March 28, 2009 to $130.6 million as of April 3, 2010. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and the distribution channel increased to 89 days as of April 3, 2010, compared to 80 days as of March 28, 2009. The increases were primarily due to higher inventory at Xilinx and in the distributor channel as a result of the higher anticipated demand.  

We attempt to maintain sufficient levels of inventory in various product, package and speed configurations in order to keep lead times short and to meet forecasted customer demand. Conversely, we also attempt to minimize the handling costs associated with maintaining higher inventory levels and to fully realize the opportunities for cost reductions associated with architecture and manufacturing process advancements. We continually strive to balance these two objectives to provide excellent customer response at a competitive cost.  

Property, Plant and Equipment  

During fiscal 2010, we invested $28.2 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $39.1 million in fiscal 2009. Primary investments in fiscal 2010 were for software, testers, handlers, computer and other equipment. Property, plant and equipment expenditures could increase in the near future due to investment in infrastructure and manufacturing related equipment.  

Current Liabilities  

Current liabilities increased from $233.1 million at the end of fiscal 2009 to $357.2 million at the end of fiscal 2010. The increase was primarily due to the increase in trade payables and accrued liabilities from variable spending driven by higher revenues in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 compared to the same prior year period, and an increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors. The increase in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to an increase in distributor inventories as of April 3, 2010 compared to the prior year.  

Stockholders’ Equity  

Stockholders’ equity increased $171.7 million during fiscal 2010, from $1.95 billion in fiscal 2009 to $2.12 billion in fiscal 2010. The increase in stockholders’ equity was attributable to total comprehensive income of $375.1 million (which included net income of $357.5 million) for fiscal 2010, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans of $60.1 million and stock-based compensation related amounts totaling $52.1 million (net of the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises). The increases were partially offset by the payment of dividends to stockholders of $165.6 million and the repurchase of common stock of $150.0 million.  

33   
Fiscal 2009 Compared to Fiscal 2008  

Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-term and Long-term Investments  

The combination of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments as of March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008 totaled $1.67 billion and $1.86 billion, respectively. As of March 28, 2009, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $1.32 billion and working capital of $1.52 billion. Cash provided by operations of $442.5 million for fiscal 2009 was $138.5 million lower than the $581.0 million generated during fiscal 2008. Cash provided by operations during fiscal 2009 resulted primarily from net income as adjusted for non-cash related items, an increase in deferred income taxes and a decrease in accounts receivable, which were partially offset by decreases in accrued liabilities and deferred income on shipments to distributors.  

Net cash provided by investing activities was $274.5 million during fiscal 2009, as compared to $192.0 million in fiscal 2008. Net cash provided by investing activities during fiscal 2009 consisted of $314.4 million of net proceeds from the sale and maturity of available-for-sale securities. These items were partially offset by $39.1 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment (see further discussion below) and $793 thousand of other investing activities.  

Net cash used in financing activities was $518.1 million in fiscal 2009, as compared to $541.9 million in fiscal 2008. Net cash used in financing activities during fiscal 2009 consisted of $193.2 million for the repurchase of debentures, $275.0 million for the repurchase of common stock and $154.5 million for dividend payments to stockholders. These items were partially offset by $99.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans and $4.8 million for excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.  

Accounts Receivable  

Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and distributor pricing adjustments decreased 13% from $249.1 million at the end of fiscal 2008 to $216.4 million at the end of fiscal 2009. Days sales outstanding decreased to 43 days as of March 28, 2009 from 49 days as of March 29, 2008. The decreases were primarily attributable to a decrease in net shipments and weaker linearity of shipments at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 compared to the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  

Inventories  

Inventories decreased from $130.3 million as of March 29, 2008 to $119.8 million as of March 28, 2009. The combined inventory days at Xilinx and the distribution channel decreased to 80 days as of March 28, 2009, compared to 94 days as of March 29, 2008. The decreases were primarily due to lower inventory at Xilinx and in the distributor channel as a result of declining revenues due to lower anticipated demand and more effective inventory management processes.  

Property, Plant and Equipment  

During fiscal 2009, we invested $39.1 million in property, plant and equipment compared to $45.6 million in fiscal 2008. Primary investments in fiscal 2009 were for building improvements, test equipment, computer equipment and software.  

Current Liabilities  

Current liabilities decreased from $340.7 million at the end of fiscal 2008 to $233.1 million at the end of fiscal 2009. The decrease was primarily due to the decreases in income taxes payable and deferred income on shipments to distributors. The decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors was due to a decrease in distributor inventories as of March 28, 2009 compared to the prior year.  

Stockholders’ Equity  

Stockholders’ equity decreased $20.4 million during fiscal 2009, from $1.97 billion in fiscal 2008 to $1.95 billion in fiscal 2009. The decrease in stockholders’ equity was attributable to the repurchase of common stock of $275.0 million, the payment of dividends to stockholders of $154.5 million, an early extinguishment of convertible debentures of $72.6 million, an adjustment to the cumulative effect of adopting FASB authoritative guidance for measuring uncertain tax positions of $10.1 million, unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, net of deferred tax benefits, of $14.9 million, cumulative translation adjustment of $7.7 million and unrealized hedging transaction losses totaling $2.0 million. The decreases were partially offset by net income of $361.7 million for fiscal 2009, the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans of $96.4 million, stock-based compensation related amounts totaling $54.1 million and the related tax benefits associated with stock option exercises and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan of $4.2 million.  

34   
Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Cash generated from operations is used as our primary source of liquidity and capital resources. Our investment portfolio is also available for future cash requirements as is our $250.0 million revolving credit facility entered into in April 2007. We are not aware of any lack of access to the revolving credit facility; however, we can provide no assurance that access to the credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. Our credit facility is not reliant upon a single bank. There have been no borrowings to date under our existing revolving credit facility. We also have a shelf registration on file with the SEC pursuant to which we may offer an indeterminate amount of debt, equity and other securities in the future to augment our liquidity and capital resources.  

We used $150.0 million of cash to repurchase 6.2 million shares of our common stock in fiscal 2010 compared with $275.0 million used to repurchase 10.8 million shares in fiscal 2009. In addition, during fiscal 2009, we paid $193.2 million of cash to repurchase $310.4 million (principal amount) of our debentures resulting in a net gain on early extinguishment of debentures of $75.0 million. During fiscal 2010, we paid $165.6 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.60 per common share. During fiscal 2009, we paid $154.5 million in cash dividends to stockholders, representing an aggregate amount of $0.56 per common share. In addition, on April 27, 2010, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.16 per common share for the first quarter of fiscal 2011. The dividend is payable on June 9, 2010 to stockholders of record on May 19, 2010. Our common stock and debentures repurchase program and dividend policy could be impacted by, among other items, our views on potential future capital requirements relating to R&D, investments and acquisitions, legal risks, principal and interest payments on our debentures and other strategic investments.  

The global credit crisis has imposed exceptional levels of volatility and disruption in the capital markets, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, and increased counterparty risk. Nevertheless, we anticipate that existing sources of liquidity and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for investments to obtain additional wafer capacity, procurement of additional capital equipment and facilities, development of new products, and potential acquisitions of technologies or businesses that could complement our business. However, the risk factors discussed in Item 1A included in Part I and below could affect our cash positions adversely. In addition, certain types of investments such as auction rate securities may present risks arising from liquidity and/or credit concerns. In the event that our investments in auction rate securities become illiquid, we do not expect this will materially affect our liquidity and capital resources or results of operations.  

As of April 3, 2010, marketable securities measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs were comprised of $61.6 million of student loan auction rate securities. The amount of assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as a percentage of the total assets and liabilities measured at fair value was less than 4% as of April 3, 2010. See “Note 3. Fair Value Measurements” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information.  

During fiscal 2010, we sold $20.0 million notional value of senior class asset-backed securities and realized a $1.0 million loss. Additionally, during fiscal 2010, $20.0 million notional value of senior class asset-backed securities that were measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs matured at par value.  

Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of April 3, 2010 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. This table excludes amounts already recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as current liabilities as of April 3, 2010.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   We lease some of our facilities, office buildings and land under non-cancelable operating leases that expire at various dates through November 2035. Rent expense, net of rental income, under all operating leases was approximately $5.3 million for fiscal 2010. See “Note 10. Commitments” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information about operating leases.   

35   
 (2)   Due to the nature of our business, we depend entirely upon subcontractors to manufacture our silicon wafers and provide assembly and some test services. The lengthy subcontractor lead times require us to order the materials and services in advance, and we are obligated to pay for the materials and services when completed. We expect to receive and pay for these materials and services in the next three to six months, as the products meet delivery and quality specifications.  

 (3)   As of April 3, 2010, we had $10.0 million of non-cancelable license obligations to providers of electronic design automation software and hardware/software maintenance expiring at various dates through September 2011.  

 (4)   We committed up to $5.0 million to acquire, in the future, rights to intellectual property until July 2023. License payments will be amortized over the useful life of the intellectual property acquired.  

 (5)   In March 2007, the Company issued $1.00 billion principal amount of debentures due March 15, 2037. As a result of the repurchases in fiscal 2009, the remaining outstanding principal amount of the debentures as of April 3, 2010 was $689.6 million. The debentures require payment of interest at an annual rate of 3.125% payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning September 15, 2007. For purposes of this table we have assumed the principal of our debentures will be paid on March 15, 2037. See “Note 14. Convertible Debentures and Revolving Credit Facility” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information about our debentures.   

As of April 3, 2010, $56.2 million of liabilities for uncertain tax positions and related interest and penalties were classified as long-term income taxes payable in the consolidated balance sheet. Due to the inherent uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash outflows associated with our liabilities for uncertain tax positions as of April 3, 2010, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of cash settlement with the respective taxing authority. Therefore, liabilities for uncertain tax positions have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above.  

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements  

As of April 3, 2010, we did not have any significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

See “Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Concentrations of Risk” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for information about recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our consolidated financial statements.  

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK