PART I

ITEM 1. Business

The Walt Disney Company, together with its subsidiaries, is a diversified worldwide entertainment company with operations in four business segments: Media Networks, Parks and Resorts, Studio Entertainment, and Consumer Products & Interactive Media. For convenience, the terms “Company” and “we” are used to refer collectively to the parent company and the subsidiaries through which our various businesses are actually conducted.

Information on the Company’s revenues, segment operating income and identifiable assets appears in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 hereof. The Company employed approximately 195,000 people as of October 1, 2016.

MEDIA NETWORKS

The Media Networks segment includes cable and broadcast television networks, television production and distribution operations, domestic television stations and radio networks and stations. The Company also has investments in entities that operate programming, distribution and content management services, including television networks, which are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

The businesses in the Media Networks segment principally generate revenue from the following:

•fees charged to cable, satellite, and telecommunications service providers (Multi-channel Video Programming Distributors “MVPD”), broadband service providers (digital MVPDs) and television stations affiliated with our domestic broadcast television network for the right to deliver our programs to their customers/subscribers (“affiliate fees”);

•the sale to advertisers of time in programs for commercial announcements (“ad sales”); and

•the sale to television networks and distributors for the right to use our television programming (“program sales”). 

Operating expenses primarily consist of programming and production costs, participations and residuals expense, technical support costs, operating labor and distribution costs.

Cable Networks

Our primary cable networks consist of ESPN, the Disney Channels and Freeform, which produce their own programs or acquire rights from third parties to air their programs on our networks.

Cable networks derive the majority of their revenues from affiliate fees and, for certain networks (primarily ESPN and Freeform), ad sales. Generally, the Company’s cable networks provide programming services under multi-year agreements with MVPDs that include contractually determined rates on a per subscriber basis. The amounts that we can charge to MVPDs for our cable network services are largely dependent on the quality and quantity of programming that we can provide and the competitive market. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand. We also sell programming developed by our cable networks worldwide to television broadcasters, to subscription video-on-demand (SVOD) services, such as Netflix, Hulu and Amazon, and in home entertainment formats such as DVD, Blu-ray and iTunes.

1
The Company’s significant cable networks and the number of subscribers as estimated by Nielsen Media Research(1) (except where noted) are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Nielsen Media Research estimates are as of September 2016 and only capture traditional MVPD subscriber counts and do not include digital MVPD subscribers.

(2) Because Nielsen Media Research does not measure these networks, estimated subscriber counts are according to SNL Kagan as of December 2015.

(3) Because Nielsen Media Research and SNL Kagan do not measure these networks, estimated subscriber counts are based on internal management reports as of September 2016.

ESPN

ESPN is a multimedia sports entertainment company owned 80% by the Company and 20% by Hearst Corporation. ESPN operates eight 24-hour domestic television sports networks: ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU (a network devoted to college sports), ESPNEWS, SEC Network (a sports programming network dedicated to Southeastern Conference college athletics), ESPN Classic, the regionally focused Longhorn Network (a network dedicated to The University of Texas athletics) and ESPN Deportes (a Spanish language network), which are all simulcast in high definition except ESPN Classic. ESPN programs the sports schedule on the ABC Television Network, which is branded ESPN on ABC. ESPN owns 19 television networks outside of the United States (primarily in Latin America) that allow ESPN to reach sports fans in over 60 countries and territories in four languages.

ESPN holds rights for various professional and college sports programming including college football (including bowl games and the College Football Playoff) and basketball, the National Basketball Association (NBA), the National Football League (NFL), Major League Baseball (MLB), US Open Tennis, various soccer rights, the Wimbledon Championships and the Masters golf tournament.

ESPN also operates:

•ESPN.com – which delivers comprehensive sports news, information and video on internet-connected devices

•WatchESPN – which delivers live streams of most of ESPN’s domestic networks on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have limited access to certain content on select Watch platforms

•ESPN3, SEC Network + and ACC Network Extra – which are ESPN’s live multi-screen sports networks that deliver exclusive sports events and are accessible on WatchESPN

•ESPN Events – which owns and operates a portfolio of collegiate sporting events including bowl games, basketball games and post-season award shows

2
•ESPN Radio – which distributes talk and play by play programming and is one of the largest sports radio networks in the U.S. ESPN Radio network programming is carried on more than 500 terrestrial stations including four ESPN owned stations in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Dallas and on satellite and internet radio

•ESPN The Magazine – which is a bi-weekly sports magazine

Disney Channels

The Company operates over 100 Disney branded television channels, which are broadcast in 34 languages and 163 countries/territories. Branded channels include Disney Channel, Disney Junior, Disney XD, Disney Cinemagic, Disney Cinema and DLife. Disney Channel content is also available through subscription and video-on-demand services and online through our websites: DisneyChannel.com, DisneyXD.com and DisneyJunior.com. Programming for these networks includes internally developed and acquired programming. The Disney Channels also include Radio Disney and RadioDisney.com.

Disney Channel, Disney Junior and Disney XD are available digitally through products that deliver live or on-demand channel programming on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have limited access to select content on these platforms.

Disney Channel - Disney Channel is a cable network airing original series and movie programming targeted to kids ages 2 to 14. In the U.S., Disney Channel airs 24 hours a day. Disney Channel develops and produces shows for exhibition on its network, including live-action comedy series, animated programming and preschool series as well as original movies. Disney Channel also airs programming and content from Disney’s theatrical film and television programming library. 

Disney Junior - Disney Junior is a cable network that airs programming targeted to kids ages 2 to 7 and their parents and caregivers, featuring animated and live-action programming that blends Disney’s storytelling and characters with learning. In the U.S., Disney Junior airs 24 hours a day. Disney Junior also airs as a programming block on the Disney Channel. 

Disney XD - Disney XD is a cable channel airing a mix of live-action and animated original programming targeted to kids ages 6 to 14. In the U.S., Disney XD airs 24 hours a day.

Disney Cinemagic and Disney Cinema - Disney Cinemagic and Disney Cinema are premium subscription services available in certain countries in Europe airing a selection of Disney movies, Disney cartoons and shorts as well as animated television series.

Radio Disney - Radio Disney is a 24-hour radio network targeted to kids, tweens and families reaching listeners through a national broadcast on various distribution platforms. Radio Disney operates from an owned terrestrial radio station in Los Angeles. Radio Disney is also available throughout Latin America on two owned terrestrial stations and through agreements with third-party radio stations.

Freeform

Freeform (formerly ABC Family) is a domestic cable network targeted to viewers ages 14 to 34. Freeform produces original live-action programming, acquires programming from third parties, airs content from our owned theatrical film library and features branded holiday programming events such as “13 Nights of Halloween” and “25 Days of Christmas”.

Freeform is available digitally through products that deliver either live or on-demand channel programing on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have limited access to select Freeform programming.

Hungama 

Hungama is a kids general entertainment cable network in India, which features a mix of animation, Hindi-language series and game shows.

UTV/Bindass Networks

We operate UTV and Bindass branded cable television networks in India. The networks include UTV Action and UTV Movies, which offer Bollywood movies as well as Hindi dubbed Hollywood movies. The networks also include Bindass, a youth entertainment channel, and Bindass Play, a music channel.

Broadcasting

Our broadcasting business includes a domestic broadcast network, television production and distribution operations, and eight owned domestic television stations.

3
Domestic Broadcast Television Network

The Company operates the ABC Television Network (ABC), which as of October 1, 2016, had affiliation agreements with 242 local television stations reaching almost 100% of all U.S. television households. ABC broadcasts programs in the following “dayparts”: primetime, daytime, late night, news and sports.

ABC produces its own programs and also acquires programming rights from third parties as well as entities that are owned by or affiliated with the Company. ABC derives the majority of its revenues from ad sales. The ability to sell time for commercial announcements and the rates received are primarily dependent on the size and nature of the audience that the network can deliver to the advertiser as well as overall advertiser demand for time on network broadcasts. ABC also receives fees from affiliated television stations for the right to broadcast ABC programming.

ABC network programming is available digitally on internet-connected devices to authenticated MVPD subscribers. Non-subscribers have a more limited access to on-demand episodes. 

The ABC app and ABC.com provide online extensions to ABC programming including episodes and selected clips. ABCNews.com provides in-depth worldwide news coverage online and video-on-demand news reports from ABC News broadcasts. ABC News also has an agreement to provide news content to Yahoo! News.

Television Production

The Company produces the majority of its scripted television programs under the ABC Studios banner. Program development is carried out in collaboration with independent writers, producers and creative teams, with a focus on one-hour dramas and half-hour comedies, primarily for primetime broadcasts. Primetime programming produced either for our networks or for third parties for the 2016/2017 television season includes thirteen returning and five new one-hour dramas and four new and three returning half-hour comedies. Additionally, the Company is producing five drama series for Netflix. The Company also produces Jimmy Kimmel Live for late night and a variety of primetime specials, as well as syndicated, news and daytime programming.

Television Distribution

We distribute the Company’s productions worldwide to television broadcasters, to SVOD services such as Netflix, Hulu and Amazon, and in home entertainment formats. 

Domestic Television Stations

The Company owns eight television stations, six of which are located in the top-ten markets in the U.S. in terms of television households. The television stations derive the majority of their revenues from ad sales. The stations also receive affiliate fees from MVPDs. All of our television stations are affiliated with ABC and collectively reach 23% of the nation’s television households. Each owned station broadcasts three digital channels: the first consists of local, ABC and syndicated programming; the second is the Live Well Network; and the third is the LAFF Network.

The stations we own are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Based on Nielsen Media Research, U.S. Television Household Estimates, January 1, 2016

4
Equity Investments

The Company has investments in media businesses that are accounted for under the equity method, and the Company’s share of the financial results for these equity investments are reported as “Equity in the income of investees” in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Income. The Company’s significant media equity investments are as follows:

A+E and Vice

A+E Television Networks (A+E) is a joint venture owned 50% by the Company and 50% by the Hearst Corporation. A+E operates a variety of cable networks including:

•A&E – which offers entertainment programming including original reality and scripted series

•HISTORY – which offers original series and event-driven specials

•Lifetime – which is devoted to female-focused programming

•Lifetime Movie Network (LMN) – which is a 24-hour movie channel

•FYI – which offers contemporary lifestyle programming

•Lifetime Real Women – which is a 24-hour cable network with programming focusing on women 

Internationally, A+E programming is available in over 150 countries. 

During fiscal 2016, A+E acquired an 8% interest in Vice Group Holdings, Inc. (Vice) in exchange for a 49.9% interest in A+E’s H2 channel, which has been rebranded as Viceland and programmed with Vice content. A+E has a 20% interest in Vice. In addition, the Company has an 11% direct ownership interest in Vice.

A+E and Vice's significant cable networks and the number of domestic subscribers by channel as estimated by Nielsen Media Research(1) are as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Nielsen Media Research estimates are as of September 2016 and only capture traditional MVPD subscriber counts and do not include digital MVPD subscribers.

BAMTech 

In fiscal 2016, the Company acquired a 15% interest in BAMTech, LLC (BAMTech), an entity which holds Major League Baseball’s streaming technology and content delivery businesses, for $450 million. BAMTech is a content management and distribution business and also has a direct-to-consumer business in which it acquires rights and distributes sports programming. 

The Company is committed to acquire an additional 18% interest for $557 million in January 2017. In addition, the Company has an option to increase its ownership to 66% by acquiring additional shares at fair market value from Major League Baseball between August 2020 and August 2023.

CTV

ESPN holds a 30% equity interest in CTV Specialty Television, Inc., which owns television networks in Canada, including The Sports Networks (TSN) 1-5, Le Réseau des Sports (RDS), RDS2, RDS Info, ESPN Classic Canada, Discovery Canada and Animal Planet Canada.

Hulu

Hulu aggregates acquired television and film entertainment content and original content produced by Hulu and distributes it digitally to internet-connected devices. Hulu offers a subscription-based service with limited commercials and a subscription-based service with no commercials. 

5
The Company licenses television and film programming to Hulu in the ordinary course of business. The Company defers a portion of its profits from these transactions until Hulu recognizes third-party revenue from the exploitation of the rights. The portion that is deferred reflects our ownership interest in Hulu.

Hulu is owned 30% each by the Company, Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. and Comcast Corporation. Time Warner, Inc. (TW) holds the remaining 10% interest in the venture, which was acquired from Hulu for $583 million in August 2016. For not more than 36 months from August 2016, TW may put its shares to Hulu or Hulu may call the shares from TW under certain limited circumstances arising from regulatory review. The Company and Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. have agreed to make a capital contribution for up to approximately $300 million each if required to fund the repurchase of shares from TW.

Seven TV 

Seven TV operates an advertising-supported, free-to-air Disney Channel in Russia. During fiscal 2016, the Company reduced its common share ownership in Seven TV from 49% to 20% to comply with Russian regulations that limit foreign ownership of media companies, while maintaining our 49% economic interest in the business.

Competition and Seasonality

The Company’s Media Networks businesses compete for viewers primarily with other television and cable networks, independent television stations and other media, such as online video services and video games. With respect to the sale of advertising time, we compete with other television networks and radio stations, independent television stations, MVPDs and other advertising media such as online and electronic delivery of content, newspapers, magazines and billboards. Our television and radio stations primarily compete for audiences and advertisers in individual market areas.

The growth in the number of networks distributed by MVPDs and growth in number of online services has resulted in increased competitive pressures for advertising revenues for our broadcast and cable networks. The Company’s cable networks also face competition from other cable networks for carriage by MVPDs and face competition from online services. The Company’s contractual agreements with MVPDs are renewed or renegotiated from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Consolidation and other market conditions in the cable and satellite distribution industry and other factors may adversely affect the Company’s ability to obtain and maintain contractual terms for the distribution of its various cable programming services that are as favorable as those currently in place.

The Company’s Media Networks businesses also compete for the acquisition of sports and other programming. The market for programming is very competitive, particularly for live sports programming.

The Company’s internet websites and digital products compete with other websites and entertainment products.

Advertising revenues at Media Networks are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. Revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. Affiliate fees are generally collected ratably throughout the year.

Federal Regulation

Television and radio broadcasting are subject to extensive regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under federal laws and regulations, including the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, limited renewals of licenses and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of a license. FCC regulations that affect our Media Networks segment include the following:

•Licensing of television and radio stations. Each of the television and radio stations we own must be licensed by the FCC. These licenses are granted for periods of up to eight years, and we must obtain renewal of licenses as they expire in order to continue operating the stations. We (and the acquiring entity in the case of a divestiture) must also obtain FCC approval whenever we seek to have a license transferred in connection with the acquisition or divestiture of a station. The FCC may decline to renew or approve the transfer of a license in certain circumstances and may delay renewals while permitting a licensee to continue operating. Although we have received such renewals and approvals in the past or have been permitted to continue operations when renewal is delayed, there can be no assurance that this will be the case in the future.

6
•Television and radio station ownership limits. The FCC imposes limitations on the number of television stations and radio stations we can own in a specific market, on the combined number of television and radio stations we can own in a single market and on the aggregate percentage of the national audience that can be reached by television stations we own. Currently:

▪FCC regulations may restrict our ability to own more than one television station in a market, depending on the size and nature of the market. We do not own more than one television station in any market.

▪Federal statutes permit our television stations in the aggregate to reach a maximum of 39% of the national audience The FCC recently changed how it treats UHF television stations for purposes of determining compliance with the 39% cap and pursuant to the FCC’s revised rules, our eight stations reach approximately 23% of the national audience.

▪FCC regulations in some cases impose restrictions on our ability to acquire additional radio or television stations in the markets in which we own radio stations, but we do not believe any such limitations are material to our current operating plans.

•Dual networks. FCC rules currently prohibit any of the four major broadcast television networks — ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC — from being under common ownership or control.

•Regulation of programming. The FCC regulates broadcast programming by, among other things, banning “indecent” programming, regulating political advertising and imposing commercial time limits during children’s programming. Penalties for broadcasting indecent programming can range up to $350,000 per indecent utterance or image per station.

Federal legislation and FCC rules also limit the amount of commercial matter that may be shown on broadcast or cable channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In addition, broadcast channels are generally required to provide a minimum of three hours per week of programming that has as a “significant purpose” meeting the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also give television station owners the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance.

•Cable and satellite carriage of broadcast television stations. With respect to cable systems operating within a television station’s Designated Market Area, FCC rules require that every three years each television station elect either “must carry” status, pursuant to which cable operators generally must carry a local television station in the station’s market, or “retransmission consent” status, pursuant to which the cable operator must negotiate with the television station to obtain the consent of the television station prior to carrying its signal. Under the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act and its successors, including most recently the STELA Reauthorization Act (STELAR), which also requires the “must carry” or “retransmission consent” election, satellite carriers are permitted to retransmit a local television station’s signal into its local market with the consent of the local television station. The ABC owned television stations have historically elected retransmission consent. Portions of these satellite laws are set to expire on December 31, 2019.

•Cable and satellite carriage of programming. The Communications Act and FCC rules regulate some aspects of negotiations regarding cable and satellite retransmission consent, and some cable and satellite companies have sought regulation of additional aspects of the carriage of programming on cable and satellite systems. New legislation, court action or regulation in this area could have an impact on the Company’s operations.

The foregoing is a brief summary of certain provisions of the Communications Act, other legislation and specific FCC rules and policies. Reference should be made to the Communications Act, other legislation, FCC rules and public notices and rulings of the FCC for further information concerning the nature and extent of the FCC’s regulatory authority.

FCC laws and regulations are subject to change, and the Company generally cannot predict whether new legislation, court action or regulations, or a change in the extent of application or enforcement of current laws and regulations, would have an adverse impact on our operations.

PARKS AND RESORTS

The Company owns and operates the Walt Disney World Resort in Florida; the Disneyland Resort in California; Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa in Hawaii; the Disney Vacation Club; the Disney Cruise Line; and Adventures by Disney. The Company manages and has effective ownership interests of 81% in Disneyland Paris, 47% in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort and 43% in Shanghai Disney Resort, each of which is consolidated in our financial statements. The Company also licenses our intellectual property to a third party to operate the Tokyo Disney Resort in Japan. The Company’s Walt Disney Imagineering unit designs and develops new theme park concepts and attractions as well as resort properties.

7
The businesses in the Parks and Resorts segment generate revenues from the sale of admissions to theme parks, sales of food, beverage and merchandise, charges for room nights at hotels, sales of cruise and other vacation packages and sales, as well as rentals of vacation club properties. Revenues are also generated from sponsorships and co-branding opportunities, real estate rent and sales, and royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort. Significant costs include labor, infrastructure costs, depreciation, costs of merchandise, food and beverage sold, marketing and sales expense and cost of vacation club units. Infrastructure costs include information systems expense, repairs and maintenance, utilities and fuel, property taxes, insurance and transportation. 

Walt Disney World Resort

The Walt Disney World Resort is located 22 miles southwest of Orlando, Florida, on approximately 25,000 acres of land. The resort includes theme parks (the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Disney’s Hollywood Studios and Disney’s Animal Kingdom); hotels; vacation club properties; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; a sports complex; conference centers; campgrounds; golf courses; water parks; and other recreational facilities designed to attract visitors for an extended stay.

The Walt Disney World Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of attractions and restaurants in each of the theme parks are sponsored or operated by other corporations through multi-year agreements.

Magic Kingdom — The Magic Kingdom consists of six themed areas: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Liberty Square, Main Street USA and Tomorrowland. Each land provides a unique guest experience featuring themed attractions, live Disney character interactions, restaurants, refreshment areas and merchandise shops. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza, Wishes.

Epcot — Epcot consists of two major themed areas: Future World and World Showcase. Future World dramatizes certain historical developments and addresses the challenges facing the world today through pavilions devoted to showcasing science and technology innovations, communication, energy, transportation, use of imagination, nature and food production, the ocean environment and space. World Showcase presents a community of nations focusing on the culture, traditions and accomplishments of people around the world. Countries represented with pavilions include Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, Norway, the United Kingdom and the United States. Both areas feature themed attractions, restaurants and merchandise shops. Epcot also features Illuminations: Reflections of Earth, a nighttime entertainment spectacular.

Disney’s Hollywood Studios — Disney’s Hollywood Studios consists of seven themed areas: Animation Courtyard, Commissary Lane, Echo Lake, Hollywood Boulevard, Muppets Courtyard, Pixar Place and Sunset Boulevard. The areas provide behind-the-scenes glimpses of Hollywood-style action through various shows and attractions and offer themed food service and merchandise facilities. The park also features Fantasmic!, a nighttime entertainment spectacular, and Star Wars: A Galactic Spectacular. In 2016, the Company began construction on two new themed areas based on the Star Wars and Toy Story franchises.

Disney’s Animal Kingdom — Disney’s Animal Kingdom consists of a 145-foot tall Tree of Life centerpiece surrounded by six themed areas: Africa, Asia, Dinoland U.S.A., Discovery Island, Oasis and Rafiki’s Planet Watch. Each themed area contains attractions, entertainment, restaurants and merchandise shops. The park features more than 300 species of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians and 3,000 varieties of vegetation. The Company has a long-term agreement for the exclusive global theme park rights to build AVATAR-themed lands and plans to open Pandora - The World of AVATAR at Disney’s Animal Kingdom in summer 2017.

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities — As of October 1, 2016, the Company owned and operated 18 resort hotels at the Walt Disney World Resort, with approximately 23,000 rooms and 3,000 vacation club units. Resort facilities include 468,000 square feet of conference meeting space and Disney’s Fort Wilderness camping and recreational area, which offers approximately 800 campsites.

The Walt Disney World Resort also hosts Disney Springs, a 127-acre retail, dining and entertainment complex, consisting of four areas: Marketplace, The Landing, Town Center and West Side. The areas are home to more than 150 venues including the 51,000-square-foot World of Disney retail store. Most of the Disney Springs facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company.

Nine independently-operated hotels with approximately 6,000 rooms are situated on property leased from the Company.

ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex is a 230-acre center that hosts professional caliber training and competitions, festival and tournament events and interactive sports activities. The complex, which welcomes both amateur and professional athletes, accommodates multiple sporting events, including baseball, basketball, football, soccer, softball, tennis and track and 

8
field. It also includes a 9,500-seat stadium. The Company plans to build an 8,000-seat indoor sports venue that will host cheer, dance, basketball and volleyball competitions.

Other recreational amenities and activities available at the Walt Disney World Resort include three championship golf courses, miniature golf courses, full-service spas, tennis, sailing, water skiing, swimming, horseback riding and a number of other noncompetitive sports and leisure time activities. The resort also includes two water parks: Disney’s Blizzard Beach and Disney’s Typhoon Lagoon.

Disneyland Resort

The Company owns 486 acres and has the rights under long-term lease for use of an additional 55 acres of land in Anaheim, California. The Disneyland Resort includes two theme parks (Disneyland and Disney California Adventure), three resort hotels and Downtown Disney, a retail, dining and entertainment complex.

The Disneyland Resort is marketed through a variety of international, national and local advertising and promotional activities. A number of the attractions and restaurants in the theme parks are sponsored or operated by other corporations through multi-year agreements.

Disneyland — Disneyland consists of eight themed areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Frontierland, Main Street USA, Mickey’s Toontown, New Orleans Square and Tomorrowland. These areas feature themed attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disneyland offers daily parades, a nighttime fireworks extravaganza and a nighttime entertainment spectacular, Fantasmic!. In 2016, the Company began construction on a new Star Wars-themed area at Disneyland.

Disney California Adventure — Disney California Adventure is adjacent to Disneyland and includes seven themed areas: Buena Vista Street, Cars Land, Grizzly Peak, Hollywood Land, Pacific Wharf, Paradise Pier and “a bug’s land”. These areas include attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, Disney California Adventure offers a nighttime water spectacular, World of Color.

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities — Disneyland Resort includes three Company-owned and operated hotels with approximately 2,400 rooms, 50 vacation club units and 180,000 square feet of conference meeting space. The Company plans to build a new 6,800-space parking garage scheduled to open in late 2018.

Downtown Disney, a themed 15-acre, retail, entertainment and dining outdoor complex with approximately 30 venues, is located adjacent to both Disneyland and Disney California Adventure. Most of the Downtown Disney facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to the Company.

Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa

Aulani, a Disney Resort & Spa, is a Company operated family resort on a 21-acre oceanfront property on Oahu, Hawaii featuring 351 hotel rooms, an 18,000-square-foot spa and 12,000 square feet of conference meeting space. The resort also has 481 Disney Vacation Club units.

Disneyland Paris

The Company has an 81% effective ownership interest in Disneyland Paris, which is located on a 5,510-acre development in Marne-la-Vallée, approximately 20 miles east of Paris, France. The land is being developed by Disneyland Paris pursuant to a master agreement with French governmental authorities. The Company manages and has a 77% equity interest in Euro Disney S.C.A., a publicly-traded French entity that is the holding company for Euro Disney Associés S.C.A., the primary operating company of Disneyland Paris. The Company also has a direct 18% ownership interest in Euro Disney Associés S.C.A. Disneyland Paris includes two theme parks (Disneyland Park and Walt Disney Studios Park); seven themed resort hotels; two convention centers; a shopping, dining and entertainment complex (Disney Village); and a 27-hole golf facility. Of the 5,510 acres comprising the site, approximately half have been developed to date, including, a planned community development, Val d’Europe. An indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Disneyland Paris and charges royalties and management fees based on the operating performance of the resort. The Company has waived payment of royalties and management fees for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 through the third quarter of fiscal 2018.

Disneyland Park — Disneyland Park consists of five themed areas: Adventureland, Discoveryland, Fantasyland, Frontierland and Main Street USA. These areas include themed attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Disneyland Park also features a daily parade and a nighttime entertainment spectacular, Disney Dreams!. 

9
Walt Disney Studios Park — Walt Disney Studios Park takes guests into the worlds of cinema, animation and television and includes four themed areas: Backlot, Front Lot, Production Courtyard and Toon Studio. These areas each include themed attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands.

Hotels and Other Facilities — Disneyland Paris operates seven resort hotels, with approximately 5,800 rooms and 210,000 square feet of conference meeting space. In addition, several on-site hotels that are owned and operated by third parties provide approximately 2,700 rooms. 

Disney Village is a 500,000-square-foot retail, dining and entertainment complex located between the theme parks and the hotels. A number of the Disney Village facilities are operated by third parties and pay rent to Disneyland Paris.

Val d’Europe is a planned community near Disneyland Paris that is being developed in phases. Val d’Europe currently includes a regional train station, hotels and a town center consisting of a shopping center as well as office, commercial and residential space. Third parties operate these developments on land leased or purchased from Disneyland Paris.

Disneyland Paris along with 50% joint venture partner, Pierre & Vacances-Center Parcs, is developing Villages Nature, a European eco-tourism destination adjacent to the resort, which is targeted to open in 2017.

Disneyland Paris Recapitalization — During calendar 2015, Disneyland Paris completed a €1.0 billion recapitalization through a €0.4 billion equity rights offering and the conversion of €0.6 billion of loans from the Company into equity. The recapitalization process was finalized in November 2015, and the Company’s effective ownership interest increased from 51% to 81% (See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

As of October 1, 2016, Disneyland Paris had €1.1 billion of loans payable to the Company. 

Hong Kong Disneyland Resort

The Company owns a 47% interest in Hong Kong Disneyland Resort through Hongkong International Theme Parks Limited, an entity in which the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) owns a 53% majority interest. The resort is located on 310 acres on Lantau Island and is in close proximity to the Hong Kong International Airport. Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes one theme park and two themed resort hotels. A separate Hong Kong subsidiary of the Company is responsible for managing Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. The Company is entitled to receive royalties and management fees based on the operating performance of Hong Kong Disneyland Resort.

Hong Kong Disneyland — Hong Kong Disneyland consists of seven themed areas: Adventureland, Fantasyland, Grizzly Gulch, Main Street USA, Mystic Point, Tomorrowland and Toy Story Land. These areas feature themed attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks extravaganza, Disney in the Stars. A new themed area based on Marvel’s Iron Man franchise is expected to open in early calendar 2017.

Hotels — Hong Kong Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels with a total of 1,000 rooms. A third hotel with 750 rooms is under construction and expected to open in 2017. 

Shanghai Disney Resort

The Company owns a 43% interest in Shanghai Disney Resort, which opened in June 2016. Shanghai Shendi (Group) Co., Ltd (Shendi), owns a 57% interest. The resort is located in the Pudong district of Shanghai on approximately 1,000 acres of land, which includes the Shanghai Disneyland theme park; two themed resort hotels; a retail, dining and entertainment complex; and an outdoor recreation area. A management company, in which the Company has a 70% interest and Shendi has a 30% interest, is responsible for operating the resort and receives a management fee based on the operating performance of Shanghai Disney Resort. The Company is also entitled to royalties based on the resort’s revenues. 

The investment in the resort is funded in accordance with each shareholder’s equity ownership percentage, with approximately 67% from equity contributions and 33% from shareholder loans. As of October 1, 2016, the Company and Shendi have provided loans to Shanghai Disney Resort of $757 million and 6.4 billion yuan ($964 million), respectively.

Shanghai Disneyland — Shanghai Disneyland consists of six themed areas: Adventure Isle, Fantasyland, Gardens of Imagination, Mickey Avenue, Tomorrowland and Treasure Cove. These areas feature themed attractions, shows, restaurants, merchandise shops and refreshment stands. Additionally, there are daily parades and a nighttime fireworks spectacular, Ignite the Dream. Construction has begun on a seventh themed area based on the Toy Story franchise, and we expect this new area to open in 2018. 

10
Hotels and Other Facilities - Shanghai Disneyland Resort includes two themed hotels with a total of 1,220 rooms. Disneytown is an 11-acre outdoor complex of dining, shopping and entertainment venues and is located adjacent to Shanghai Disneyland. Most Disneytown facilities are operated by third parties that pay rent to Shanghai Disney Resort.

Tokyo Disney Resort

Tokyo Disney Resort is located on 494 acres of land, six miles east of downtown Tokyo, Japan. The resort includes two theme parks (Tokyo Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea); four Disney-branded hotels; six independently operated hotels; Ikspiari, a retail, dining and entertainment complex; and Bon Voyage, a Disney-themed merchandise location.

The Company earns royalties on revenues generated by the Tokyo Disney Resort, which is owned and operated by Oriental Land Co., Ltd. (OLC), a Japanese corporation in which the Company has no equity interest.

Tokyo Disneyland — Tokyo Disneyland consists of seven themed areas: Adventureland, Critter Country, Fantasyland, Tomorrowland, Toontown, Westernland and World Bazaar.

Tokyo DisneySea — Tokyo DisneySea, adjacent to Tokyo Disneyland, is divided into seven “ports of call,” including American Waterfront, Arabian Coast, Lost River Delta, Mediterranean Harbor, Mermaid Lagoon, Mysterious Island and Port Discovery.

Hotels and Other Resort Facilities — Tokyo Disney Resort includes four Disney-branded hotels with a total of more than 2,400 rooms and a monorail, which links the theme parks and resort hotels with Ikspiari.

OLC has announced multi-year development plans for Tokyo Disney Resort, which include the expansion of Fantasyland at Tokyo Disneyland.

Disney Vacation Club

Disney Vacation Club (DVC) offers ownership interests in 13 resort facilities located at the Walt Disney World Resort; Disneyland Resort; Aulani; Vero Beach, Florida; and Hilton Head Island, South Carolina. Available units at each facility are offered for sale under a vacation ownership plan and are operated as hotel rooms when not occupied by vacation club members. The Company’s vacation club units consist of a mix of units ranging from deluxe studios to three-bedroom grand villas. Unit counts in this document are presented in terms of two-bedroom equivalents. DVC had approximately 3,800 vacation club units as of October 1, 2016. The Company is currently constructing its 14th vacation club property, Copper Creek Villas & Cabins at Disney’s Wilderness Lodge at the Walt Disney World Resort.

Disney Cruise Line

Disney Cruise Line is a four-ship vacation cruise line, which operates out of ports in North America and Europe. The Disney Magic and the Disney Wonder are approximately 85,000-ton 877-stateroom ships, and the Disney Dream and the Disney Fantasy are 130,000-ton 1,250-stateroom ships. The ships cater to families, children, teenagers and adults, with distinctly-themed areas and activities for each group. Many cruise vacations include a visit to Disney’s Castaway Cay, a 1,000-acre private Bahamian island. The Company is expanding its cruise business by adding two new ships, one to be delivered in calendar 2021 and the other in 2023. The new ships will be 135,000 tons with 1,250 staterooms.

Adventures by Disney

Adventures by Disney offers all-inclusive guided vacation tour packages predominantly at non-Disney sites around the world. The Company offered 33 different tour packages during 2016.

Walt Disney Imagineering

Walt Disney Imagineering provides master planning, real estate development, attraction, entertainment and show design, engineering support, production support, project management and other development services, including research and development for the Company’s Parks and Resorts operations.

Competition and Seasonality

The Company’s theme parks and resorts as well as Disney Cruise Line and Disney Vacation Club compete with other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. The profitability of the leisure-time industry may be 

11
influenced by various factors that are not directly controllable, such as economic conditions including business cycle and exchange rate fluctuations, travel industry trends, amount of available leisure time, oil and transportation prices, weather patterns and natural disasters.

All of the theme parks and the associated resort facilities are operated on a year-round basis. Typically, theme park attendance and resort occupancy fluctuate based on the seasonal nature of vacation travel and leisure activities. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early-winter and spring-holiday periods.

STUDIO ENTERTAINMENT

The Studio Entertainment segment produces and acquires live-action and animated motion pictures, direct-to-video content, musical recordings and live stage plays.

The businesses in the Studio Entertainment segment generate revenue from distribution of films in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets, stage play ticket sales, distribution of recorded music and licensing of Company intellectual property for use in live entertainment productions. Significant operating expenses include film cost amortization, which consists of production cost and participations and residuals expense amortization, distribution expenses and costs of sales.

The Company distributes films primarily under the Walt Disney Pictures, Pixar, Marvel, Lucasfilm and Touchstone banners.

In August 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with DreamWorks Studios (DreamWorks) to distribute live-action motion pictures produced by DreamWorks for seven years under the Touchstone Pictures banner for which the Company received a distribution fee. In fiscal 2016, the Company entered into an agreement to end the 2009 distribution agreement and acquired all rights, titles, and interests in thirteen previously released DreamWorks films. In exchange, the Company forgave loans and terminated financing previously available to DreamWorks. The Company distributed three DreamWorks films in fiscal 2016.

Prior to the Company’s acquisition of Marvel, Marvel had licensed the rights to third-party studios to produce and distribute feature films based on certain Marvel properties including Spider-Man, The Fantastic Four and X-Men. Under the licensing arrangements, the third-party studios incur the costs to produce and distribute the films and the Company retains the merchandise licensing rights. Under the licensing arrangement for Spider-Man, the Company pays the third-party studio a licensing fee based on each film’s box office receipts, subject to specified limits. Under the licensing arrangements for The Fantastic Four and X-Men, the third-party studio pays the Company a licensing fee, and the third-party studio receives a share of the Company’s merchandise revenue on these properties. The Company distributes all Marvel-produced films with the exception of The Incredible Hulk, which is distributed by a third-party studio.

Prior to the Company’s acquisition of Lucasfilm, Lucasfilm produced six Star Wars films (Episodes 1 through 6). Lucasfilm retained the rights to consumer products related to all of those films and the rights related to television and electronic distribution formats for all of those films, with the exception of the rights for Episode 4, which are owned by a third-party studio. All of those films are distributed by a third-party studio in the theatrical and home entertainment markets. The theatrical and home entertainment distribution rights for these films revert back to Lucasfilm in May 2020 with the exception of Episode 4, for which these distribution rights are retained in perpetuity by the third-party studio.

Lucasfilm also includes Industrial Light & Magic and Skywalker Sound, which provide visual and audio effects and other post-production services to the Company and third-party producers.

Theatrical Market

We produce and distribute both live-action films and full-length animated films. In the domestic theatrical market, we generally distribute and market our filmed products directly. In most major international markets, we distribute our filmed products directly while in other markets our films are distributed by independent distribution companies or joint ventures. During fiscal 2017, we expect to release eight of our own produced feature films. Cumulatively through October 1, 2016 the Company has released domestically approximately 1,000 full-length live-action features and 100 full-length animated features.

The Company incurs significant marketing and advertising costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film in an effort to generate public awareness of the film, to increase the public’s intent to view the film and to help generate consumer interest in the subsequent home entertainment and other ancillary markets. These costs are expensed as incurred. Therefore, we may incur a loss on a film in the theatrical markets, including in periods prior to the theatrical release of the film.

12
Home Entertainment Market

In the domestic market, we distribute home entertainment releases directly under each of our motion picture banners. In international markets, we distribute home entertainment releases under our motion picture banners both directly and through independent distribution companies. We also produce original content domestically and acquire content internationally for direct-to-video release.

Domestic and international home entertainment distribution typically starts three to six months after the theatrical release in each market. Home entertainment releases are distributed in physical (DVD and Blu-ray) and electronic formats. Electronic formats may be released up to four weeks ahead of the physical release. Physical formats are generally sold to retailers, such as Wal-Mart and Target and electronic formats are sold through e-tailers, such as Apple and Amazon. Titles are also sold to physical rental services, such as Netflix. However, distribution by physical rental services may be delayed up to 28 days after the start of home entertainment distribution.

As of October 1, 2016, we had approximately 1,400 active produced and acquired titles, including 1,000 live-action titles and 400 animated titles, in the domestic home entertainment marketplace and approximately 2,200 active produced and acquired titles, including 1,600 live-action titles and 600 animated titles, in the international marketplace.

Television Market

In the television market, we license our films to cable and broadcast networks, television stations and other service providers, which may provide the content to viewers on televisions or a variety of internet-connected devices.

Video-on-Demand (VOD) — Concurrently with physical home entertainment distribution, we license titles to VOD service providers for electronic delivery to consumers for a specified rental period.

Pay Television (Pay 1) — In the U.S., there are two or three pay television windows. The first window is generally eighteen months in duration and follows the VOD window. The Company has licensed exclusive domestic pay television rights to Netflix, which operates a subscription video on demand (SVOD) service, for all films released theatrically during calendar years 2016 through 2018, with the exception of DreamWorks films. Most films released theatrically prior to calendar year 2016 have been licensed to the Starz pay television service. DreamWorks titles that are distributed by the Company are licensed to Showtime under a separate agreement. 

Free Television (Free 1) — The Pay 1 window is followed by a television window that may last up to 84 months. Motion pictures are usually sold in the Free 1 window to basic cable networks.

Pay Television 2 (Pay 2) and Free Television 2 (Free 2) — In the U.S., Free 1 is generally followed by a twelve-month to nineteen-month Pay 2 window under our license arrangements with Netflix, Starz and Showtime. The Pay 2 window is followed by a Free 2 window, whereby films are licensed to basic cable networks, SVOD services and to television station groups.

Pay Television 3 (Pay 3) and Free Television 3 (Free 3) — In the U.S., Free 2 is sometimes followed by a seven-month Pay 3 window, and then by a Free 3 window. In the Free 3 window, films are licensed to basic cable networks, SVOD services and to television station groups. 

International Television — The Company also licenses its films outside of the U.S. The typical windowing sequence is consistent with the domestic cycle such that titles premiere on VOD services and then on pay TV or SVOD services before airing in free TV. Windowing strategies are developed in response to local market practices and conditions, and the exact sequence and length of each window can vary country by country.

Disney Music Group

The Disney Music Group (DMG) commissions new music for the Company’s motion pictures and television programs and develops, produces, markets and distributes recorded music worldwide either directly or through license agreements. DMG also licenses the songs and recording copyrights to others for printed music, records, audio-visual devices, public performances and digital distribution and produces live musical concerts. DMG includes Walt Disney Records, Hollywood Records, Disney Music Publishing and Buena Vista Concerts.

13
Disney Theatrical Group

Disney Theatrical Group develops, produces and licenses live entertainment events on Broadway and around the world, including The Lion King, Aladdin, Newsies, Mary Poppins (a co-production with Cameron Mackintosh Ltd), Beauty and the Beast, Elton John & Tim Rice’s Aida, TARZAN® and The Little Mermaid.

Disney Theatrical Group also licenses the Company’s intellectual property to Feld Entertainment, the producer of Disney On Ice and Marvel Universe Live!.

Competition and Seasonality

The Studio Entertainment businesses compete with all forms of entertainment. A significant number of companies produce and/or distribute theatrical and television films, exploit products in the home entertainment market, provide pay television and SVOD programming services, produce music and sponsor live theater. We also compete to obtain creative and performing talents, story properties, advertiser support and broadcast rights that are essential to the success of our Studio Entertainment businesses.

The success of Studio Entertainment operations is heavily dependent upon public taste and preferences. In addition, Studio Entertainment operating results fluctuate due to the timing and performance of releases in the theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. Release dates are determined by several factors, including competition and the timing of vacation and holiday periods.

CONSUMER PRODUCTS & INTERACTIVE MEDIA

The Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment licenses the Company’s trade names, characters and visual and literary properties to various manufacturers, game developers, publishers and retailers throughout the world. We also develop and publish games, primarily for mobile platforms, and books, magazines and comic books. The segment also distributes branded merchandise directly through retail, online and wholesale businesses. These activities are performed through our Merchandise Licensing, Retail, Games and Publishing businesses. In addition, the segment’s operations include website management and design, primarily for other Company businesses, and the development and distribution of online video content.

The Consumer Products & Interactive Media segment generates revenue primarily from:

•licensing characters and content from our film, television and other properties to third parties for use on consumer merchandise, published materials and in multi-platform games;

•selling merchandise through our retail stores, internet shopping sites and wholesale business;

•sales of games through app distributors and online and through consumers’ in-game purchases;

•wholesale sales of self-published children’s books and magazines and comic books;

•charging tuition at English language learning centers in China; and

•advertising through the distribution of online video content.

Significant costs include costs of goods sold and distribution expenses, operating labor and retail occupancy costs, product development and marketing.

Merchandise Licensing

The Company’s merchandise licensing operations cover a diverse range of product categories, the most significant of which are: toys, apparel, home décor and furnishings, accessories, stationery, food, health and beauty, footwear and consumer electronics. The Company licenses characters from its film, television and other properties for use on third-party products in these categories and earns royalties, which are usually based on a fixed percentage of the wholesale or retail selling price of the products. Some of the major properties licensed by the Company include: Star Wars, Mickey and Minnie, Frozen, Avengers, Disney Princess, Disney Channel characters, Spider-Man, Cars, Finding Dory/Finding Nemo, Winnie the Pooh and Disney Classics. 

Retail

The Company markets Disney-, Marvel- and Lucasfilm-themed products through retail stores operated under the Disney Store name and through internet sites in North America (DisneyStore.com and MarvelStore.com), Western Europe, Japan and 

14
China. The stores are generally located in leading shopping malls and other retail complexes. The Company currently owns and operates 223 stores in North America, 78 stores in Europe, 48 stores in Japan and one store in China. The Company also offers retailers merchandise under wholesale arrangements.

Games

The Company licenses properties to third-party game developers. We also develop and publish games, primarily for play on internet-connected devices, and which are available to consumers to download from third-party distributors or play online.

Publishing

The Company creates, distributes, licenses and publishes children’s books, comic books and graphic novel collections of comic books, magazine and learning products in print and digital formats, and storytelling apps in multiple countries and languages based on the Company’s branded franchises. Disney English develops and delivers an English language learning curriculum for Chinese children using Disney content in 27 learning centers in eight cities across China.

Other Content

The Company’s operations include Maker Studios, a leading network and developer of online video content distributed primarily on YouTube and other digital platforms. Revenues and costs generated by Maker Studios have been allocated primarily to the Media Networks and Studio Entertainment segments. The Company also licenses Disney properties and content to mobile phone carriers in Japan. In addition, the Company develops, publishes and distributes interactive family content through Disney.com, Disney on YouTube, Babble.com and various Disney-branded apps. 

Competition and Seasonality

The Consumer Products & Interactive Media businesses compete with other licensors, retailers and publishers of character, brand and celebrity names, as well as other licensors, publishers and developers of game software, online video content, internet websites, other types of home entertainment and retailers of toys and kids merchandise. Operating results are influenced by seasonal consumer purchasing behavior, consumer preferences, levels of marketing and promotion and by the timing and performance of theatrical and game releases and cable programming broadcasts.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION

The Company’s businesses throughout the world are affected by its ability to exploit and protect against infringement of its intellectual property, including trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets. Important intellectual property includes rights in the content of motion pictures, television programs, electronic games, sound recordings, character likenesses, theme park attractions, books and magazines. Risks related to the protection and exploitation of intellectual property rights are set forth in Item 1A – Risk Factors.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available without charge on our website, www.disney.com/investors, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We are providing the address to our internet site solely for the information of investors. We do not intend the address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this report.

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors