PART I  

Item 1. Business.  

Mattel, Inc. (“Mattel”) designs, manufactures, and markets a broad variety of toy products worldwide which are sold to its customers and directly to consumers. Mattel’s vision is “creating the future of play.” Mattel’s objectives are to grow its share in the marketplace, continue to improve its operating margins, and create long-term stockholder value. To achieve these objectives, management has established the following strategies:  

The first strategy is to deliver consistent growth by continuing the momentum in its core brands, optimizing entertainment partnerships, building new franchises, and working to expand and leverage its international footprint.  

The second strategy is to optimize operating margins through sustaining gross margins within the low-to-mid 50% range in the near-term and above 50% in the long-term, and delivering on cost savings initiatives.  

The third strategy is to generate significant cash flow and continue its disciplined, opportunistic, and value-enhancing deployment.  

Mattel believes its products are among the most widely recognized toy products in the world. Mattel’s portfolio of brands and products are grouped in the following categories:  

Mattel Girls & Boys Brands—including Barbie® fashion dolls and accessories (“Barbie”), Polly Pocket®, Little Mommy®, Disney Classics®, and Monster High® (collectively “Other Girls Brands”), Hot Wheels®, Matchbox®, and Tyco R/C® vehicles and play sets (collectively “Wheels”), and CARS®, Radica®, Toy Story®, Max Steel®, WWE® Wrestling, and Batman®, and games and puzzles (collectively “Entertainment”).  

Fisher-Price Brands—including Fisher-Price®, Little People®, BabyGear™, and Imaginext® (collectively “Core Fisher-Price”), Dora the Explorer®, Go Diego Go!®, Thomas & Friends®, Mickey Mouse® Clubhouse, Disney’s Jake and the Never Land Pirates®, and See ‘N Say® (collectively “Fisher-Price Friends”), and Power Wheels®.  

American Girl Brands—including My American Girl®, the historical collection, and Bitty Baby®. American Girl Brands products are sold directly to consumers via its catalog, website, and proprietary retail stores. Its children’s publications are also sold to certain retailers.  

Mattel was incorporated in California in 1948 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1968. Its executive offices are located at 333 Continental Blvd., El Segundo, California 90245-5012, telephone number (310) 252-2000.  

Business Segments  

“Mattel” refers to Mattel, Inc. and its subsidiaries as a whole, unless the context requires otherwise. This narrative discussion applies to all segments except where otherwise stated. Mattel’s operating segments are separately managed business units. Prior to 2012, Mattel’s operating segments were divided on a geographic basis between domestic and international. The domestic segment was further divided into Mattel Girls & Boys Brands US, Fisher-Price Brands US, and American Girl Brands. Effective January 1, 2012, Mattel modified its organizational structure into North America, International, and American Girl divisions. This reorganization was implemented in order to simplify the organization and to move decision-making for the North America business closer to its retail customers and its toy consumers. Prior to the reorganization, the functions of the US operations were divided between the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands US and Fisher-Price Brands US operating segments. Both of these segments had distinct and separate reporting structures. The reorganization consolidated functions within the US into a single reporting structure that is no longer structured around brands, including the US sales, customer marketing, customer forecasting, customer service, and finance teams. The new structure is primarily organized based on customer-focused teams that are designated to specific retail customers. As a result, the  

3  

Table of Contents 

 reorganization changed the way the US business is being operated and combined the US business with Canada under one leadership team, to form the North America division. As part of the reorganization, new executive positions were created and prior executive positions within the US operations were eliminated or restructured to align to the North America division. Mattel’s strategic goals and internal reporting of financial information have also been changed consistent with this reorganization into the North America division.  

The change to Mattel’s organizational structure and formation of the North America division resulted in changes to Mattel’s operating segments. The new operating segments are: (i) North America, which consists of the US and Canada, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. The North America and International segments sell products in the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands and Fisher-Price Brands categories, although some are developed and adapted for particular international markets. 

For additional information on Mattel’s segment reporting, including revenues and segment income, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Business Segment Results” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.” For additional information regarding segment assets and geographic areas, see Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.” The prior period operating segment amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.  

For a discussion of the risks inherent in the foreign operations of Mattel, which affect each segment, see Item 1A “Risk Factors.”  

North America Segment  

The North America segment markets and sells toys in the US and Canada through the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands and Fisher-Price Brands categories.  

In the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands category, Barbie includes brands such as Barbie fashion dolls and accessories, and Polly Pocket, Little Mommy, Disney Classics, and Monster High are included within Other Girls Brands. Wheels includes Hot Wheels, Matchbox, and Tyco R/C vehicles and play sets. Entertainment includes CARS, Radica, Toy Story, Max Steel, WWE Wrestling, Batman, and Superman®, as well as games and puzzles.  

In 2013, Barbie will be inviting girls to experience her world like never before. With a spotlight on Barbie’s Dreamhouse, the global campaign will be supported by extensive product introductions, a live large-as-life exhibit, TV, events, and a digital experience for both girls and brand fans at dreamhouse.barbie.com. In 2013, new products will be featured to support three full-length animated launches, Barbie in The Pink Shoes™ in spring 2013, Barbie Mariposa and The Fairy Princess™ in fall 2013, and Barbie & Her Sisters in A Pony Tale in winter 2013. In addition, Barbie will continue to release new webisodes of Barbie Life in the Dreamhouse™. Monster High will have new characters and products, as well as televised entertainment and webisodes throughout 2013. In addition, a Monster High Double Feature DVD will be released featuring the TV specials Why Do Ghouls Fall in Love? and Friday Night Frights in spring 2013, as well as the 13 Wishes DVD in fall 2013. Disney Princess® will have two tent pole events to support growth for 2013. In fall 2013, new products will be featured to support the release of Disney Princess The Little Mermaid DVD, as well as the theatrical release of the feature film, Disney Princess Frozen™. In addition, a broad range of dolls, fashions, and accessories will be released to support the new Disney Channel animated television series Sofia the First™, which premiered in January 2013.  

In 2013, Hot Wheels will continue to drive its business with an overarching brand campaign around the world’s best driver. Hot Wheels will introduce new product lines such as SpinShotz, which is a new way to play with Hot Wheels, and the Car Maker. SpinShotz allows children to make and customize their own Hot Wheels vehicles. Matchbox will launch a brand campaign around Matchbox’s 60th anniversary, as well as expand product offerings around the Big Boots line of vehicles and figures. The Entertainment business will include new  

4  

Table of Contents 

 innovative products based on the DC Comics® Superman® feature film, Man of Steel ®, DreamWorks’ feature film Turbo, and Disney’s film Planes. New product extensions of Disney/Pixar’s Toy Story® include Toy Story Zing ‘Ems™ and four-inch figures. WWE Wrestling will extend its product line with Power Slammers™ Figures. In 2013, new products will be featured to support an all new animated Max Steel TV series, which launches in spring 2013. For games and puzzles, Mattel will continue offering products of its existing UNO®, Phase 10®, Skip Bo®, and Apples to Apples® games, as well as children games based on Angry Birds™. Radica will expand the Girl Tech® line with new innovative offerings.  

The Fisher-Price Brands category includes Fisher-Price, Little People, BabyGear, Imaginext, Dora the Explorer, Bubble Guppies®, Thomas & Friends, Mike The Knight®, Octonauts®, Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Disney’s Jake and the Never Land Pirates, and Power Wheels.  

In 2013, Fisher-Price will continue its Joy of Learning advertising campaign. The campaign will be supported by innovative product introductions beginning with the entry of BabyGear to the toddler feeding category. New Fisher-Price microsites will be launched in 2013, and will feature popular apps, webisodes, and games supporting the infant Laugh & Learn® line, as well as parenting articles, and consumer-generated content. In the preschool category, the Little People brand will be refreshed and will offer various new products, including the Disney Princess Klip Klop Stable. Imaginext will continue to encourage imagination, language, and social skills with the Rescue City Center and DC Comics Super Friends® Batcave®. New character-based toys inspired by children’s programming will include the Jake and the Never Land Pirates Magical Tiki Hideout, Mickey Mouse Clubhouse Cheerin’ Minnie, Bubble Guppies Swim-sational School, Octonauts Octopod® Playset, and Dora the Explorer Spin & Skate Dora & Boots. In addition, the Mike the Knight toy line will be launched on a global basis in fall 2013. The Thomas & Friends feature DVD, King of the Railway, will be released during 2013 and the Thomas & Friends brand will be supported with various product lines, including the new Thomas & Friends wood line.  

International Segment  

Products marketed by the International segment are generally the same as those developed and marketed by the North America segment, although some are developed or adapted for particular international markets. Mattel’s products are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.  

Mattel’s International segment revenue represented 44% of worldwide consolidated gross sales in 2012. Within the International segment, Mattel operates in three regional groups that generated the following gross sales during 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

No individual country within the International segment exceeded 6% of worldwide consolidated gross sales during 2012.  

The strength of the US dollar relative to other currencies can significantly affect the revenues and profitability of Mattel’s international operations. Mattel enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign  

5  

Table of Contents 

 currencies, to limit the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on its results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Derivative Instruments.” For financial information by geographic area, see Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”  

American Girl Segment  

The American Girl segment is a direct marketer, children’s publisher, and retailer best known for its flagship line of historical dolls, books, and accessories, as well as the My American Girl and Bitty Baby brands. American Girl also publishes best-selling Advice & Activity books and the award-winning American Girl magazine. In January 2013, American Girl introduced Saige™, the 2013 Girl of the Year® doll. American Girl products are sold primarily in the US.  

Manufacturing and Materials  

Mattel manufactures toy products for all segments in both company-owned facilities and through third-party manufacturers. Products are also purchased from unrelated entities that design, develop, and manufacture those products. To provide greater flexibility in the manufacture and delivery of its products, and as part of a continuing effort to reduce manufacturing costs, Mattel has concentrated production of most of its core products in company-owned facilities and generally uses third-party manufacturers for the production of non-core products.  

Mattel’s principal manufacturing facilities are located in China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, and Thailand. To help avoid disruption of its product supply due to political instability, civil unrest, economic instability, changes in government policies, and other risks, Mattel produces its products in multiple facilities across multiple countries. Mattel believes that the existing production capacity at its own and its third-party manufacturers’ facilities is sufficient to handle expected volume in the foreseeable future. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.”  

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in a lack of product availability or excess inventory in a particular product line.  

The majority of Mattel’s raw materials is available from numerous suppliers but may be subject to fluctuations in price.  

Competition and Industry Background  

Competition in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of toys is based primarily on quality, play value, and price. Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that include, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, girls’ toys, boys’ toys, youth electronics, hand-held and other games, puzzles, educational toys, media-driven products, and fashion-related toys. The North America segment competes with several large toy companies, including Bandai, Hasbro, Jakks Pacific, Leap Frog, Lego, MGA Entertainment, Spin Master, Tomy, and VTech, many smaller toy companies, and several manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. The International segment competes with global toy companies including Bandai, Hasbro, Lego, MGA Entertainment, Playmobil, Tomy, and VTech, other national and regional toy companies, and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. Foreign regions may include competitors that are strong in a particular toy line or geographical area but do not compete with Mattel or other international toy companies worldwide. The American Girl segment competes with companies that manufacture girls’ toys and with children’s book publishers and retailers.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Competition among the above companies is intensifying due to recent trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products and an increasing use of high technology in toys. In addition, as a result of the phenomenon of “children getting older younger” resulting from children outgrowing toys at younger ages, Mattel competes with companies that sell products outside the toy aisle, such as electronic consumer products and video games. Competition is increased further by the fact that a small number of retailers account for a large portion of all toy sales, allocate the shelf space from which toys are viewed, and have direct contact with parents and children through in-store purchases, coupons, and print advertisements. Such retailers can and do promote their own private-label toys, facilitate the sale of competitors’ toys, and allocate shelf space to one type of toy over another. Competition is also intensifying due to the availability of online-only distributors, like Amazon.com, which are able to promote a wide variety of toys and represent a wide variety of toy manufacturers, and with limited overhead, do so at a lower cost.  

Seasonality  

Mattel’s business is highly seasonal, with consumers making a large percentage of all toy purchases during the traditional holiday season. A significant portion of Mattel’s customers’ purchasing occurs in the third and fourth quarters of Mattel’s fiscal year in anticipation of holiday buying. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of less popular toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers have also been attempting to manage their inventories more tightly in recent years, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase the risk that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times or that Mattel’s own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. Additionally, as retailers manage their inventories, Mattel experiences cyclical ordering patterns for products and product lines that may cause its sales to vary significantly from period to period.  

In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. Seasonal shipping patterns result in significant peaks in the third and fourth quarters in the respective levels of inventories and accounts receivable, which result in seasonal working capital financing requirements. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”  

Product Design and Development  

Through its product design and development group, Mattel regularly refreshes, redesigns, and extends existing toy product lines and develops innovative new toy product lines for all segments. Mattel believes its success is dependent on its ability to continue these activities effectively. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.” Product design and development activities are principally conducted by a group of professional designers and engineers employed by Mattel. During 2012, 2011, and 2010, Mattel incurred expenses of $195.1 million, $179.0 million, and $173.9 million, respectively, in connection with the design and development of products, exclusive of royalty payments. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Supplemental Financial Information.”  

Additionally, independent toy designers and developers bring concepts and products to Mattel and are generally paid a royalty on the net selling price of products licensed to Mattel. These independent toy designers may also create different products for other toy companies.  

Advertising and Marketing  

Mattel supports its product lines with extensive advertising and consumer promotions. Advertising takes place at varying levels throughout the year and peaks during the traditional holiday season. Advertising includes television and radio commercials, magazine, newspaper, and internet advertisements, and social media. Promotions include in-store displays, sweepstakes, merchandising materials, and major events focusing on products and tie-ins with various consumer products companies.  

7  

Table of Contents 

During 2012, 2011, and 2010, Mattel incurred expenses of $717.8 million (11.2% of net sales), $699.2 million (11.2% of net sales), and $647.3 million (11.1% of net sales), respectively, for advertising and promotion.  

Sales  

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets, and, to a limited extent, wholesalers. Mattel also operates several small retail outlets, generally near or at its corporate headquarters and distribution centers as a service to its employees and as an outlet for its products. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence. Mattel also has retail outlets in Latin America and Europe that serve as outlets for its products. American Girl products are sold directly to consumers, and its children’s publications are also sold to certain retailers. Mattel has fourteen American Girl retail stores: American Girl Place in Chicago, Illinois, Los Angeles, California, and New York, New York, and American Girl stores in Alpharetta, Georgia, Bloomington, Minnesota, Chesterfield, Missouri, Dallas, Texas, Houston, Texas, Lone Tree, Colorado, Lynnwood, Washington, McLean, Virginia, Miami, Florida, Natick, Massachusetts, and Overland Park, Kansas, each of which features children’s products from the American Girl segment. American Girl also has a retail outlet in Oshkosh, Wisconsin that serves as an outlet for its products. Additionally, Mattel sells certain of its products online through its website.  

During 2012, Mattel’s three largest customers (Wal-Mart at $1.2 billion, Toys “R” Us at $0.7 billion, and Target at $0.5 billion) accounted for approximately 37% of worldwide consolidated net sales. Within countries in the International segment, there is also a concentration of sales to certain large customers that do not operate in the US, none of which exceed 10% of net sales. The customers and the degree of concentration vary depending upon the region or nation. See Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”  

Licenses and Distribution Agreements  

Mattel has license agreements with third parties that permit Mattel to utilize the trademark, characters, or inventions of the licensor in products that Mattel sells. A number of these licenses relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations.  

Mattel has entered into agreements to license entertainment properties from, among others, Disney Enterprises, Inc. (including ©Disney characters such as Mickey Mouse, Disney Princess, Jake and the Never Land Pirates, CARS and Toy Story from Pixar, Winnie the Pooh®, and certain Disney films and television properties), Viacom International, Inc. relating to its Nickelodeon® properties (including Dora the Explorer and Go Diego Go!), Warner Bros. Consumer Products (including Batman, Superman, Justice League®, and Green Lantern®), Sesame Workshop® through December 31, 2010 (relating to its Sesame Street® properties including Elmo), and WWE Wrestling.  

Royalty expense for 2012, 2011, and 2010 was $240.2 million, $262.4 million, and $245.9 million, respectively. See “Commitments” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Mattel also licenses a number of its trademarks and other property rights to others for use in connection with the sale of their products. Mattel distributes some third-party finished products that are independently designed and manufactured.  

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents  

Most of Mattel’s products are sold under trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, and a number of these products incorporate patented devices or designs. Trademarks, copyrights, and patents are significant assets of Mattel in that they provide product recognition and acceptance worldwide.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Mattel customarily seeks trademark, copyright, and patent protection covering its products, and it owns or has applications pending for US and foreign trademarks, copyrights, and patents covering many of its products. A number of these trademarks, copyrights, and patents relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations. Mattel believes its rights to these properties are adequately protected, but there can be no assurance that its rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged.  

Commitments  

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into contractual arrangements for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery and to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the term of the contracts. Current and future commitments for guaranteed payments reflect Mattel’s focus on expanding its product lines through alliances with businesses in other industries. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used in the normal course of business.  

Purchase and service agreements with terms extending through 2016 contain future minimum payments totaling approximately $394 million. Licensing and similar agreements with terms extending through 2017 and beyond contain provisions for future guaranteed minimum payments totaling approximately $203 million. Operating lease commitments with terms extending through 2017 and beyond contain future minimum obligations totaling approximately $510 million. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Commitments” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Backlog  

Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, which usually request delivery within three months. In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment. In recent years, a trend toward just-in-time inventory practices in the toy industry has resulted in fewer advance orders and therefore less backlog of orders. Mattel believes that the amount of backlog orders at any given time may not accurately indicate future sales.  

Financial Instruments  

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to market risk by monitoring its foreign currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.  

For additional information regarding foreign currency contracts, see “International Segment” above, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Derivative Instruments.”  

Seasonal Financing  

See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”  

9  

Table of Contents 

Government Regulations and Environmental Quality  

Mattel’s products sold in the US are subject to the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, and may also be subject to the requirements of the Flammable Fabrics Act or the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act and the regulations promulgated pursuant to such statutes. These statutes and the related regulations ban from the market consumer products that fail to comply with applicable product safety laws, regulations, and standards. The Consumer Product Safety Commission may require the recall, repurchase, replacement, or repair of any such banned products or products that otherwise create a substantial risk of injury and may seek penalties for regulatory noncompliance under certain circumstances. Similar laws exist in some US states.  

Mattel’s products sold worldwide are subject to the provision of similar laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, including the European Union and Canada.  

Mattel maintains a quality control program to help ensure compliance with applicable product safety requirements. Nonetheless, Mattel has experienced, and may in the future experience, issues in products that result in recalls, withdrawals, or replacements of products. A product recall could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s results of operations and financial condition, depending on the product affected by the recall and the extent of the recall efforts required. A product recall could also negatively affect Mattel’s reputation and the sales of other Mattel products. See Item 1A “Risk Factors.”  

Mattel’s advertising is subject to the Federal Trade Commission Act, The Children’s Television Act of 1990, the rules and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, and the Federal Communications Commission, as well as laws of certain countries that regulate advertising and advertising to children. In addition, Mattel’s online and other digital communications activity are or may be subject to US and foreign privacy-related regulations, including the US Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998 and the EU Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/EC) and related national regulations. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.  

Mattel’s worldwide operations are subject to the requirements of various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions where those operations are located. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with those laws and regulations. Mattel’s operations are from time to time the subject of investigations, conferences, discussions, and negotiations with various federal, state and local environmental agencies within and outside the United States with respect to the discharge or cleanup of hazardous waste. Mattel is not aware of any material cleanup liabilities.  

Mattel is subject to various other federal, state, local and international laws and regulations applicable to its business. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.  

Employees  

The total number of persons employed by Mattel and its subsidiaries at any one time varies because of the seasonal nature of its manufacturing operations. At December 31, 2012, Mattel’s total number of employees was approximately 28,000.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The current executive officers of Mattel, all of whom are appointed annually by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Stockton has been Chairman of the Board since January 2013 and also served as our Chief Executive Officer and a director since January 2012. He served as Chief Operating Officer from January 2011 through December 2011, as President, International from November 2007 to January 2011, as Executive Vice President, International from February 2003 to November 2007 and as Executive Vice President, Business Planning and Development from November 2000 until February 2003. From April 1998 until November 2000, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Basic Vegetable Products, the largest manufacturer of vegetable ingredients in the world. For more than 20 years prior to that, he was employed by Kraft Foods, Inc., the largest packaged food company in North America, and was President of Kraft North American Food Service from August 1996 to March 1998.  

Mr. Allmark has been Executive Vice President Global Brands Team – Fisher-Price since February 2011. From January 2008 to February 2011, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Mattel’s United Kingdom, Canada, and Eastern European markets and, from October 2005 to December 2007, as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Fisher-Price Friends. Mr. Allmark served as a Vice President in Mattel’s International group from August 2001 to October 2005 and as Marketing Director of Mattel’s UK group from January 1999 to July 2001. From May 1995, he served as Director of UK Sales and Marketing of Bluebird Toys P.L.C., which was acquired by Mattel in 1998, and prior to that he spent 12 years working in sales and marketing for various companies in the toy industry.  

Mr. Debrowski has been Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations since November 2000. From February 1992 until November 2000, he was Senior Vice President-Operations and a director of The Pillsbury Company. From September 1991 until February 1992, he was Vice President of Operations for the Baked Goods Division of The Pillsbury Company. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and Director of Grocery Operations for Kraft U.S.A.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Mr. Farr has been Chief Financial Officer since February 2000. From September 1996 to February 2000, he was Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller. From June 1993 to September 1996, he served as Vice President, Tax. Prior to that, he served as Senior Director, Tax from August 1992 to June 1993.  

Mr. Kaye has been Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer since February 2011. From July 1997 to February 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Human Resources. From June 1996 to June 1997, he was President, Texas Division of Kaufman and Broad Homes, a home building company. From June 1991 to June 1996, he served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Kaufman and Broad Homes. Prior to that, he worked for two years with the Hay Group, a compensation consulting firm and for 12 years with IBM in various human resources positions.  

Mr. Kilpin has been Executive Vice President, Global Brands Team – Boys & Girls since February 2011. From February 2010 to February 2011, he served as General Manager and Senior Vice President, Mattel Brands El Segundo. Mr. Kilpin served as General Manager and Senior Vice President for the Girls, Boys and Games groups from November 2008 to February 2010 and for the Boys group from October 2005 to November 2008. Prior to rejoining Mattel as a Senior Vice President, Marketing in 2003, Mr. Kilpin was Executive Vice President of Studio Franchise Management at The Walt Disney Company. Mr. Kilpin first joined Mattel in August 1984 and until October 1999, held various marketing positions, culminating as Executive Vice President and General Manager of the then Character Brands business unit.  

Ms. Klein has been Senior Vice President of Corporate Responsibility since August 2011. Prior to joining Mattel, she served as Executive Vice President Health Care and Asia from September 2009 to April 2011 and Executive Vice President Corporate Strategy and Business Integration from May 2009 to August 2009 for Syncreon, a major global logistics provider. From April 2008 to February 2009, she served as Corporate Director Asia Operations and Global Remanufacturing for Edwards, a leading company in the semiconductor industry. Prior to that, Ms. Klein spent 23 years with Ford Motor Company in executive positions in Procurement, Manufacturing and Product Development.  

Mr. Massingberd has been Executive Vice President, International since February 2011. Before that, he served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility from September 2007 to February 2011. From February 1998 to August 2007, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Mattel’s International divisions in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Asia, and Latin America and from August 1997 to February 1998, he was Vice President, Sales for Mattel Canada. Prior to joining Mattel, Mr. Massingberd spent 18 years with Nestle S.A. and served in various roles, including Vice President, Sales and head of Nestle Canada’s Confectionery division.  

Ms. McKenzie has been President of American Girl since January 2013 and also served as Executive Vice President of Mattel since September 2012. Prior to re-joining Mattel in 2011 as Senior Vice President-Marketing, she was Senior Vice President for The Walt Disney Company from 2007 to 2010, and President and Chief Executive Officer of Gateway Learning Corporation from 1999 to 2005. From 1989 to 1998, Ms. McKenzie served in various executive positions at Mattel working on the Barbie brand, most recently as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Worldwide Barbie.  

Mr. Normile has been Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since February 2011. From March 1999 to February 2011, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. He served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary from August 1994 to March 1999. From June 1992 to August 1994, he served as Assistant General Counsel. Prior to that, he was associated with the law firms of Latham & Watkins LLP and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  

Mr. Pean has been Executive Vice President, North America since February 2012. He served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Asia Pacific from December 2007 to January 2012, and Vice President and General Manager UK from August 2004 to December 2007. He began working at Mattel as Sales Director in 1998. Prior to joining Mattel, he spent 11 years with Colgate Palmolive.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Ms. Sadigh has been Senior Vice President and Corporate Treasurer since November 2010. She served as Senior Vice President, Mattel Brands Finance and Strategy from October 2005 to November 2010. From January 2001 to October 2005, she served as Senior Vice President in various leadership roles, including Corporate Strategic Planning, Sales Strategy, and International Finance. From December 1999 until January 2001, she served as Vice President and Assistant Controller. From August 1991 to December 1999, she served in various Corporate Finance positions. Prior to joining Mattel, Ms. Sadigh spent eight years in the banking industry.  

Mr. Topham has been Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller since September 2005. He served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer from March 2005 to August 2005 and as Vice President and Treasurer from March 2004 to March 2005. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and Assistant Controller from May 2001 to March 2004. From August 2000 to May 2001, he served as Vice President and Treasurer of Premier Practice Management, Inc. From June 1999 to August 2000, he served as Division Vice President of Dataworks, Inc., a specialized publishing company. Prior to that, he spent eight years with Total Petroleum (North America) Ltd., most recently as Vice President of Human Resources.  

Available Information  

Mattel files its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that Mattel files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  

Mattel’s Internet website address is http://corporate.mattel.com. Mattel makes available on its Internet website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.