Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Overview  

Mattel’s vision is “creating the future of play.” Mattel’s objectives are to grow its share in the marketplace, continue to improve its operating margins, and create long-term stockholder value. To achieve these objectives, management has established the following strategies:  

The first strategy is to deliver consistent growth by continuing the momentum in its core brands, optimizing entertainment partnerships, building new franchises, and working to expand and leverage its international footprint.  

The second strategy is to optimize operating margins through sustaining gross margins within the low-to-mid 50% range in the near-term and above 50% in the long-term, and delivering on cost savings initiatives.  

The third strategy is to generate significant cash flow and continue its disciplined, opportunistic, and value-enhancing deployment.  

2012 Overview  

During 2012, Mattel delivered another year of consistent growth. Mattel increased its revenues by maintaining momentum in its core brands such as Hot Wheels, American Girl, and Fisher-Price. Mattel increased its gross margin beyond its long-term target of approximately 50% and operating income exceeded $1 billion for the second consecutive year. Mattel also generated significant cash flow, which it deployed to create value for its stockholders. More specifically:  

   •    Net sales increased to $6.42 billion in 2012, up 2% from $6.27 billion in 2011.  

   •    Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased to 53.1% in 2012 from 50.2% in 2011. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was driven primarily by favorable product mix, savings from manufacturing efficiency and Operational Excellence 2.0 programs, the benefit of HIT Entertainment’s licensing business, and price increases partially offset by higher input costs and higher customer benefits.  

   •    Operating income was $1.02 billion in 2012, or 15.9% of net sales, compared to the prior year’s operating income of $1.04 billion, or 16.6% of net sales.  

   •    Mattel’s Operational Excellence 2.0 program resulted in cost savings, before severance charges and investments, of approximately $93 million (or approximately $77 million in net cost savings) in 2012. The gross cost savings included approximately $53 million of structural cost savings and approximately $40 million of legal cost savings.  

   •    Mattel paid total annual dividends of $1.24 per share, an increase of 35% from the prior year, and repurchased 2.3 million shares of its common stock.  

27  

Table of Contents 

2013 and Beyond  

In 2013, Mattel will continue to work to deliver consistent growth and financial performance by executing against its existing strategies through: (i) capitalizing on Fisher-Price’s global growth opportunities, (ii) continuing to accelerate growth in its key brands, including Barbie, Monster High, American Girl, and Hot Wheels, (iii) launching new franchises, including Max Steel, (iv) optimizing its entertainment partnerships with theatrical releases (Superman, Frozen, Planes, and Turbo) and television properties, and (v) continuing to expand its international footprint. In addition, Mattel will continue to focus on improving its operating margin through sustaining its gross margin within the low-to-mid 50% range and launching Operational Excellence 3.0, the next phase of its cost savings program. Operational Excellence 3.0 will target additional cumulative cost savings of approximately $150 million by the end of 2014, with up to 70% of the expected savings to be realized in gross margin. Mattel also expects to generate significant cash flow and continue its disciplined, opportunistic, and value-enhancing deployment of its cash.  

Results of Operations  

2012 Compared to 2011  

Consolidated Results  

Net sales for 2012 were $6.42 billion, a 2% increase, as compared to $6.27 billion in 2011, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Net income for 2012 was $776.5 million, or $2.22 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $768.5 million, or $2.18 per diluted share, in 2011. As compared to 2011, net income for 2012 was positively impacted by higher net sales, higher gross margins, and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by higher other selling and administrative expenses, which includes a litigation charge of $137.8 million, arising out of the litigation between Mattel and MGA Entertainment, Inc. (“Litigation Charge”). The Litigation Charge reduced net income by $87.1 million, or $0.25 per diluted share.  

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2012 and 2011 (in millions, except percentage and basis point information):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales  

Net sales for 2012 were $6.42 billion, a 2% increase, as compared to $6.27 billion in 2011, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Gross sales within the North American Region, which includes the North America and American Girl segments, increased 2% in 2012, as compared to 2011, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. The increase in gross sales within the North American Region was driven primarily by higher sales of key brands including Monster High, American Girl, and Hot Wheels, partially offset by lower sales of CARS 2® products resulting from the timing of the movie release during 2011.  

28  

Table of Contents 

 Gross sales within the North American Region accounted for approximately 56% of consolidated gross sales in 2012 and 2011. Gross sales in the International Region, which includes the International segment, increased 4% in 2012, as compared to 2011, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 6 percentage points.  

Cost of Sales  

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 46.9% in 2012, as compared to 49.8% in 2011. Cost of sales decreased by $108.5 million, or 3%, from $3.12 billion in 2011 to $3.01 billion in 2012, as compared to a 2% increase in net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs decreased by $95.5 million, or 4%, from $2.53 billion in 2011 to $2.44 billion in 2012; royalty expenses decreased $22.2 million, or 8%, from $262.4 million in 2011 to $240.2 million in 2012; and freight and logistics expenses increased by $9.2 million, or 3%, from $323.7 million in 2011 to $332.9 million in 2012.  

Gross Profit  

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales increased to 53.1% in 2012 from 50.2% in 2011. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was driven primarily by favorable product mix, savings from manufacturing efficiency and Operational Excellence 2.0 programs, the benefit of HIT Entertainment’s licensing business, and price increases partially offset by higher input costs and higher customer benefits.  

Advertising and Promotion Expenses  

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show costs. Advertising and promotion expenses as a percentage of net sales were flat at 11.2% in 2012 and 2011.  

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses  

Other selling and administrative expenses were $1.67 billion in 2012, or 26.0% of net sales, as compared to $1.41 billion in 2011, or 22.4% of net sales. The significant changes in other selling and administrative expenses included the Litigation Charge of $137.8 million, the addition of HIT Entertainment’s ongoing other selling and administrative expenses of approximately $47 million, and higher incentive compensation expense of approximately $33 million, partially offset by lower legal fees of approximately $40 million. Additional drivers for the increase included transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition of HIT Entertainment and investments in strategic initiatives, including American Girl retail expansion and information technology initiatives.  

Non-Operating Items  

Interest expense was $88.8 million in 2012, as compared to $75.3 million in 2011, driven primarily by the issuance of $600.0 million of senior notes in November 2011. Interest income decreased from $8.1 million in the 2011 to $6.8 million in 2012, driven primarily by lower average cash balances.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2012 was 17.8%, as compared to 20.8% in 2011. The 2012 and 2011 income tax provisions include net discrete tax benefits of $16.0 million and $6.8 million, respectively, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Business Segment Results  

Effective January 1, 2012, Mattel modified its organizational structure, which resulted in changes to its operating segments. The new operating segments are: (i) North America, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. The North America and International segments sell products in the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands and Fisher-Price Brands categories, although some are developed and adapted for particular international markets. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Business segment results should be read in conjunction with Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”  

North America Segment  

Gross sales for the North America segment were $3.33 billion in 2012, up $33.2 million or 1%, as compared to $3.30 billion in 2011, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates, driven primarily by higher sales of Monster High and Fisher-Price Friends products, partially offset by lower sales of CARS 2 products, resulting from the timing of the movie release during 2011. Gross sales of Mattel Girls & Boys Brands were flat compared to 2011. Gross sales of Barbie decreased 4%. Gross sales of Other Girls products increased 47%, driven primarily by higher sales of Monster High products. Gross sales of Wheels products increased 3%, driven by higher sales of Hot Wheels products. Gross sales of Entertainment products decreased 24%, driven primarily by lower sales of CARS 2 products, partially offset by higher sales of Batman products and higher sales of Angry Birds games products. Gross sales of Fisher-Price Brands increased 2%. Gross sales of Core Fisher-Price products decreased 7%. Gross sales of Fisher-Price Friends products increased 38%, driven primarily by the benefit of licensing revenues from the acquisition of HIT Entertainment and higher sales of Disney’s Jake and the Never Land Pirates products. Cost of sales decreased 4% in 2012, as compared to flat net sales, driven primarily by lower product and other costs and lower royalty expenses, partially offset by higher freight and logistics expenses. Gross margins increased as a result of favorable product mix, including lower sales of royalty-related entertainment properties, savings from manufacturing efficiency and Operational Excellence 2.0 programs, and price increases partially offset by higher input costs and higher customer benefits. Additionally, gross margins were positively impacted by the acquisition of HIT Entertainment.  

North America segment income increased by 5% to $810.3 million in 2012, as compared to $770.3 million in 2011, driven primarily by higher gross margins, partially offset by higher other selling and administrative expenses, primarily related to HIT Entertainment’s ongoing other selling and administrative expenses, higher employee-related expenses, and investments in strategic initiatives.  

International Segment  

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in gross sales within the International segment in 2012 versus 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross sales for the International segment were $3.13 billion in 2012, up $124.4 million or 4%, as compared to $3.00 billion in 2011, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 6 percentage points. Gross sales of Mattel Girls & Boys Brands increased 3%, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 6 percentage points. Gross sales of Barbie decreased 3%, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 6 percentage points. Gross sales of Other Girls Brands increased 66%, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 8 percentage points, driven primarily by higher sales of Monster High and Disney Princess products. Gross sales of Wheels products decreased 2%, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of  

30  

Table of Contents 

 6 percentage points. Gross sales of Entertainment products decreased by 18%, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points, driven primarily by lower sales of CARS 2 products, partially offset by higher sales of Batman products and higher sales of Angry Birds games products. Gross sales of Fisher-Price Brands increased 8%, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Gross sales of Core Fisher-Price products decreased 2%, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 5 percentage points. Gross sales of Fisher-Price Friends products increased 43%, with unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates of 6 percentage points, driven primarily by the benefit of licensing revenues from HIT Entertainment and higher sales of Disney’s Jake and the Never Land Pirates products. Cost of sales decreased by 2% in 2012, as compared to a 4% increase in net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs, lower royalty expenses, and lower freight and logistics expenses. Gross margins increased as a result of favorable product mix, savings from manufacturing efficiency and Operational Excellence 2.0 programs, favorable changes in currency exchange rates, and price increases partially offset by higher input costs and higher customer benefits. Additionally, gross margins were positively impacted by the acquisition of HIT Entertainment.  

International segment income increased 11% to $571.4 million in 2012, as compared to $513.4 million in 2011, driven primarily by higher gross margins, partially offset by higher other selling and administrative expenses, primarily related to HIT Entertainment’s ongoing other selling and administrative expenses, higher employee-related costs, and investments in strategic initiatives, including the opening of a Russia subsidiary.  

American Girl Segment  

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $596.3 million in 2012, up $53.9 million or 10%, as compared to $542.4 million in 2011, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates. The increase in gross sales was driven primarily by sales of McKenna™, the 2012 Girl of the Year doll, and expansion of retail locations. Cost of sales increased 14% in 2012, as compared to a 10% increase in net sales, driven primarily by higher product and other costs and freight and logistics expenses. Gross margins decreased driven primarily by higher input costs, partially offset by price increases.  

American Girl segment income increased 9% to $121.6 million in 2012, as compared to $111.1 million in 2011, driven by higher net sales, partially offset by lower gross margins and higher other selling and administrative expenses, primarily related to retail expansion.  

2011 Compared to 2010  

Consolidated Results  

Net sales for 2011 were $6.27 billion, a 7% increase, as compared to $5.86 billion in 2010, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Net income for 2011 was $768.5 million, or $2.18 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $684.9 million, or $1.86 per diluted share, in 2010. As compared to 2010, net income for 2011 was positively impacted by higher net sales and higher operating income, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate, higher interest expense, and higher other non-operating expense.  

31  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2011 and 2010 (in millions, except percentage and basis point information):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales  

Net sales for 2011 were $6.27 billion, a 7% increase, as compared to $5.86 billion in 2010, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 1 percentage point. Gross sales within the North American Region increased 4% in 2011, as compared to 2010, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates, driven primarily by higher sales of Barbie, Monster High, and CARS 2 products. The gross sales within the North American Region accounted for 56% of consolidated gross sales in 2011, as compared to 58% of consolidated gross sales in 2010. Gross sales in the International Region increased 12% in 2011, as compared to 2010, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points.  

Cost of Sales  

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 49.8% in 2011, as compared to 49.5% in 2010. Cost of sales increased by $219.0 million, or 8%, from $2.90 billion in 2010 to $3.12 billion in 2011, as compared to a 7% increase in net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs increased by $192.5 million, or 8%, from $2.34 billion in 2010 to $2.53 billion in 2011; royalty expenses increased $16.5 million, or 7%, from $245.9 million in 2010 to $262.4 million in 2011; and freight and logistics expenses increased by $10.0 million, or 3%, from $313.7 million in 2010 to $323.7 million in 2011.  

Gross Profit  

Gross profit as a percentage of net sales decreased to 50.2% in 2011 from 50.5% in 2010. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net sales was driven primarily by higher input costs, higher royalty expense as a result of increased sales of products tied to licensed properties, and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by price increases and savings from Operational Excellence 2.0 programs.  

Advertising and Promotion Expenses  

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show costs. Advertising and promotion expenses slightly increased in 2011 at 11.2% of net sales, as compared to 11.1% of net sales in 2010, primarily due to higher non-media spending.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses  

Other selling and administrative expenses were $1.41 billion in both 2011 and 2010, or 22.4% of net sales in 2011, as compared to 24.0% of net sales in 2010. The significant changes in other selling and administrative expenses included higher employee-related expenses of approximately $38 million, including merit increases and higher employee benefits, partially offset by lower legal fees of approximately $34 million. Additional drivers include lower incentive compensation expense and cost savings from Operational Excellence 2.0 programs.  

Non-Operating Items  

Interest expense was $75.3 million in 2011, as compared to $64.8 million in 2010, driven primarily by higher average borrowings resulting from the $500.0 million of senior notes issued in September 2010 and the $600.0 million of senior notes issued in November 2011, partially offset by the repayment of $250.0 million of maturing debt in 2011 and lower average interest rates. Interest income decreased from $8.4 million in 2010 to $8.1 million in 2011, driven primarily by lower average interest rates, partially offset by higher average invested cash balances. Other non-operating expense was $3.2 million in 2011, as compared to other non-operating income of $1.3 million in 2010, driven primarily by other investment losses.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2011 was 20.8%, as compared to 19.1% in 2010. The 2011 income tax provision includes net tax benefits of $6.8 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. The 2010 income tax provision includes net tax benefits of $16.8 million, primarily related to the release of a valuation allowance related to the anticipated utilization of excess foreign tax credit carryforwards, reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by the incremental tax cost to repatriate earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries for which income taxes had not been previously provided.  

North America Segment  

Gross sales for the North America segment were $3.30 billion in 2011, an increase of $106.7 million or 3%, as compared to $3.19 billion in 2010, with no impact from changes in currency exchange rates, driven primarily by higher sales of Barbie, Monster High, and CARS 2 products. Gross sales of Mattel Girls & Boys Brands increased 10%. Gross sales of Barbie increased 8%. Gross sales of Other Girls Brands increased 24%, driven primarily by higher sales of Monster High and Disney Princess products, partially offset by lower sales of Little Mommy and Polly Pocket products. Gross sales of Wheels products decreased 5%, driven primarily by lower sales of Matchbox products. Gross sales of Entertainment products increased 15%, driven primarily by higher sales of CARS 2 products, partially offset by lower sales of Toy Story 3 products. Gross sales of Fisher-Price Brands decreased 4%. Gross sales of Core Fisher-Price products increased 2%. Gross sales of Fisher-Price Friends products decreased 25%, driven primarily by the discontinuation of the Sesame Street license. Cost of sales increased 3% in 2011, as compared to a 3% increase in net sales, driven primarily by higher product and other costs and higher royalty expenses, partially offset by lower freight and logistics expenses. Gross margins were flat with 2010 due to price increases and favorable product mix, offset by higher input costs.  

North America segment income increased 15% to $770.3 million in 2011, as compared to $671.2 million in 2010, driven primarily by higher net sales and lower other selling and administrative expenses.  

33  

Table of Contents 

International Segment  

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in gross sales within the International segment in 2011 versus 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross sales for the International segment were $3.00 billion in 2011, up $322.4 million or 12%, as compared to $2.68 billion in 2010, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. Gross sales of Mattel Girls & Boys Brands increased 17%, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. Gross sales of Barbie increased 14%, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points. Gross sales of Other Girls Brands increased 34%, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 3 percentage points, driven primarily by higher sales of Monster High and Disney Princess products, partially offset by lower sales of Polly Pocket and Little Mommy products. Gross sales of Wheels products increased 11%, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points, driven primarily by higher sales of Hot Wheels products. Gross sales of Entertainment products increased by 17%, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 4 percentage points, driven primarily by higher sales of CARS 2 products, partially offset by lower sales of Toy Story 3 products. Fisher-Price Brands gross sales were flat with 2010, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Gross sales of Core Fisher-Price products increased 3%, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points. Gross sales of Fisher-Price Friends products decreased 10%, with favorable changes in currency exchange rates of 2 percentage points, driven primarily by the discontinuation of the Sesame Street license. Cost of sales increased 14% in 2011, as compared to a 12% increase in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs and higher royalty expenses. Gross margins decreased primarily due to higher input costs and unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by price increases.  

International segment income increased 5% to $513.4 million in 2011 from $490.7 million in 2010, driven primarily by higher net sales, partially offset by lower gross margins.  

American Girl Segment  

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $542.4 million in 2011, up $25.4 million or 5%, as compared to $517.0 million in 2010, driven primarily by sales from the American Girl virtual world and Kanani®, the 2011 Girl of the Year doll, and the benefit of two new American Girl stores in McLean, Virginia and Lynwood, Washington, which opened in June 2011 and July 2011, respectively. Cost of sales increased by 6% in 2011, as compared to a 5% increase in net sales, driven primarily by higher product and other costs and freight and logistics expenses. Gross margins decreased slightly driven primarily by higher input costs, partially offset by price increases.  

American Girl segment income decreased 2% to $111.1 million in 2011 from $113.4 million in 2010, driven primarily by higher other selling and administrative expenses from retail expansion and higher advertising and promotion expenses, partially offset by higher net sales.  

34  

Table of Contents 

Cost Savings Programs  

During 2008, Mattel initiated the first phase of its cost savings program, Global Cost Leadership, which was designed to improve operating efficiencies and leverage Mattel’s global scale to improve profitability and operating cash flows. The major initiatives within the Global Cost Leadership program included:  

   •    A global reduction in Mattel’s professional workforce, which resulted in severance and other termination-related charges of approximately $13 million and approximately $32 million during 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

   •    A coordinated efficiency strategic plan that included structural changes designed to lower costs and improve efficiencies; for example, offshoring and outsourcing certain back office functions, and additional clustering of management in international markets.  

   •    Procurement initiatives designed to fully leverage Mattel’s global scale in areas such as creative agency partnerships, legal services, and distribution, including ocean carriers and over-the-road freight vendors.  

The Global Cost Leadership program was intended to generate approximately $90 million to $100 million of net cost savings in 2009, and approximately $180 million to $200 million of cumulative net cost savings by the end of 2010. Mattel exceeded its 2009 goal by realizing approximately $164 million of gross cost savings before severance charges of approximately $32 million (or approximately $132 million in net cost savings). Of the gross cost savings realized in 2009, approximately $88 million was reflected within other selling and administrative expenses, approximately $62 million within gross profit, and approximately $14 million within advertising and promotion expenses.  

In addition, Mattel exceeded its 2010 goal by realizing approximately $61 million of year-over-year incremental gross cost savings before severance charges of approximately $13 million (or approximately $48 million in net cost savings), for cumulative gross cost savings before severance charges of approximately $225 million. Of the gross cost savings realized in 2010, approximately $27 million was reflected within gross profit, approximately $20 million within other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $14 million within advertising and promotion expenses.  

During 2011, Mattel initiated the second phase of its cost savings program, Operational Excellence 2.0, which targeted additional cumulative cost savings of approximately $175 million by the end of 2012. The cost savings were expected to include a reduction of approximately $75 million in legal costs, which would lower other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $100 million of structural cost savings executed through a handful of important initiatives, which would be reflected in gross profit, advertising and promotion expenses, and other selling and administrative expenses. The major initiatives within the Operational Excellence 2.0 program included:  

   •    A reorganization which resulted in the North America division,  

   •    Additional procurement initiatives designed to fully leverage Mattel’s global scale,  

   •    SKU efficiency, and  

   •    Packaging optimization.  

During 2011, Mattel realized gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $94 million (or approximately $71 million in net cost savings). The gross cost savings included approximately $53 million of structural cost savings and approximately $41 million of legal cost savings. Of the gross cost savings realized in 2011, approximately $67 million was reflected within other selling and administrative expenses, approximately $15 million within gross profit, and approximately $12 million within advertising and promotion expenses.  

35  

Table of Contents 

During 2012, Mattel realized gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $93 million (or approximately $77 million in net cost savings). The gross cost savings included approximately $53 million of structural cost savings and approximately $40 million of legal cost savings. Of the gross cost savings realized in 2012, approximately $55 million was reflected within other selling and administrative expenses, approximately $27 million within gross profit, and approximately $11 million within advertising and promotion expenses.  

Mattel exceeded its Operational Excellence 2.0 goal by realizing approximately $187 million of cumulative gross cost savings throughout the program.  

During 2013, Mattel will initiate the third phase of its cost savings program, Operational Excellence 3.0, which targets additional cumulative cost savings of approximately $150 million by the end of 2014, with up to 70% of the expected savings to be realized in gross margin. The cost savings program is designed to generate sustainable cost savings through the following primary initiatives:  

   •    Manufacturing efficiencies through automation, Lean, design for manufacturing, enterprise quality, and packaging optimization,  

   •    Indirect procurement,  

   •    Operational efficiencies, and  

   •    Enhanced International clustering.  

Income Taxes  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2012 was 17.8%, as compared to 20.8% in 2011. The 2012 income tax provision includes net tax benefits of $16.0 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of current audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2011 was 20.8%, as compared to 19.1% in 2010. The 2011 income tax provision includes net tax benefits of $6.8 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2010 was 19.1% and the 2010 income tax provision includes net tax benefits of $16.8 million, primarily related to the release of a valuation allowance related to the anticipated utilization of excess foreign tax credit carryforwards, reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by the incremental tax cost to repatriate earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries for which income taxes had not been previously provided.  

Mattel expects its full year 2013 effective tax rate to be approximately 22% to 23%.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Mattel’s primary sources of liquidity are its cash and equivalents balances, access to short-term borrowing facilities, including its $1.40 billion domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”), and issuances of long-term debt securities. Cash flows from operating activities could be negatively impacted by decreased demand for Mattel’s products, which could result from factors such as adverse economic conditions and changes in public and consumer preferences, or by increased costs associated with manufacturing and distribution of products or shortages in raw materials or component parts. Additionally, Mattel’s ability to issue long-term debt and obtain seasonal financing could be adversely affected by factors such as global economic crises and tight credit environments, an inability to meet its debt covenant requirements, which include maintaining consolidated debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”) and interest coverage ratios, or a deterioration of Mattel’s credit ratings. Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations could be negatively impacted should these or other adverse conditions affect its primary sources of liquidity.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Current Market Conditions  

Mattel is exposed to financial market risk resulting from changes in interest and foreign currency rates. Mattel believes that it has ample liquidity to fund its business needs, including beginning of year cash and equivalents, cash flows from operations, and access to the commercial paper markets and its Credit Facility, which it uses for seasonal working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2012, Mattel had available incremental borrowing resources totaling $1.40 billion under the Credit Facility, and Mattel has not experienced any limitations on its ability to access this source of liquidity. Market conditions could affect certain terms of other debt instruments that Mattel enters into from time to time.  

Mattel monitors the third-party depository institutions that hold the Company’s cash and equivalents. Mattel’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal, and secondarily on maximizing the yield on those funds. Mattel diversifies its cash and equivalents among counterparties and securities to minimize risks.  

Mattel is subject to credit risks relating to the ability of its counterparties of hedging transactions to meet their contractual payment obligations. The risks related to creditworthiness and nonperformance have been considered in the fair value measurements of Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Mattel closely monitors its counterparties and takes action, as necessary, to manage its counterparty credit risk.  

Mattel expects that some of its customers and vendors may experience difficulty in obtaining the liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials. Mattel monitors its customers’ financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate Mattel’s accounts receivable collectibility risks and customer terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary. Additionally, Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment.  

Mattel sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for its employees. Actual returns below the expected rate of return, along with changes in interest rates that affect the measurement of the liability, would impact the amount and timing of Mattel’s future contributions to these plans.  

Capital and Investment Framework  

To guide future capital deployment decisions, with a goal of maximizing stockholder value, Mattel’s Board of Directors established the following capital and investment framework:  

   •    To maintain approximately $800 million to $1 billion in year-end cash available to fund a substantial portion of seasonal working capital,  

   •    To maintain a year-end debt-to-capital ratio of about 35%,  

   •    To invest approximately $180 million to $200 million in capital expenditures annually to maintain and grow the business,  

   •    To make strategic opportunistic acquisitions, and  

   •    To return excess funds to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases.  

Over the long term, assuming cash flows from operating activities remain strong, Mattel plans to use its free cash flows to invest in strategic acquisitions and to return funds to stockholders through cash dividends and share repurchases. Mattel’s share repurchase program has no expiration date and repurchases will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. The ability to successfully implement the capital deployment plan is directly dependent on Mattel’s ability to generate strong cash flows from operating activities. There is no assurance that Mattel will continue to generate strong cash flows from operating activities or achieve its targeted goals for investing activities.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Operating Activities  

Cash flows from operating activities were $1.28 billion during 2012, as compared to $664.7 million during 2011 and $528.0 million during 2010. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in 2012 from 2011 was primarily due to reductions in working capital. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in 2011 from 2010 was primarily due to the decision not to factor $300.0 million of domestic receivables in 2010 and higher net income in 2011, partially offset by higher working capital usage.  

Investing Activities  

Cash flows used for investing activities were $900.2 million during 2012, as compared to $174.5 million during 2011 and $146.7 million during 2010. The increase in cash flows used for investing activities in 2012 from 2011 was primarily due to the acquisition of HIT Entertainment and higher purchases of other property, plant, and equipment. The increase in cash flows used for investing activities in 2011 from 2010 was primarily due to higher purchases of tools, dies, molds and other property, plant, and equipment, partially offset by higher net proceeds from settled foreign currency forward exchange contracts.  

Financing Activities  

Cash flows used for financing activities were $410.9 million during 2012, as compared to $397.3 million during 2011 and $224.8 million during 2010. The increase in cash flows used for financing activities in 2012 from 2011 was primarily due to lower net proceeds from long-term borrowings and higher dividend payments, partially offset by lower share repurchases and lower repayments of long-term borrowings. The increase in cash flows used for financing activities in 2011 from 2010 was primarily due to repayments of long-term borrowings, higher share repurchases, and higher dividend payments, partially offset by higher net proceeds from long-term borrowings and higher proceeds from the exercise of stock options.  

During 2012, Mattel repurchased 2.3 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $77.9 million, of which $23.5 million was unsettled at December 31, 2012. During 2011, Mattel repurchased 20.4 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $536.3 million, of which $12.3 million was unsettled at December 31, 2011. During 2010, Mattel repurchased 18.6 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $446.7 million. During 2011 and 2010, the Board of Directors authorized Mattel to increase its share repurchase program by $500.0 million. At December 31, 2012, share repurchase authorizations of $349.4 million had not been executed. Repurchases will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. Mattel’s share repurchase program has no expiration date.  

During 2012, 2011, and 2010, Mattel paid total dividends per share of $1.24, $0.92, and $0.83, respectively, to holders of its common stock. During 2012 and 2011, the Board of Directors declared the dividends on a quarterly basis, and Mattel paid the dividends during the quarters in which the dividends were declared. During 2010, the Board of Directors declared an annual dividend in November, and Mattel paid the dividend in December. Dividend payments were $423.4 million, $316.5 million, and $291.3 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.  

Seasonal Financing  

See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”  

Financial Position  

Mattel’s cash and equivalents were $1.34 billion at December 31, 2012, a decrease of $33.4 million from 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by the acquisition of HIT Entertainment, dividend payments, purchases of other property, plant, and equipment, purchases of tools, dies, and molds, share repurchases, and payment of long-term debt, partially offset by cash flow from operating activities.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Accounts receivable decreased $19.9 million from December 31, 2011 to $1.23 billion at December 31, 2012, primarily due to the timing of cash collections.  

Inventories decreased $21.9 million from December 31, 2011 to $465.1 million at December 31, 2012, driven primarily by lower raw material and finished goods levels.  

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased $319.3 million from December 31, 2011 to $1.27 billion at December 31, 2012, driven primarily by the accrual related to the Litigation Charge of $137.8 million, the timing and amount of payments to vendors and various accrued liabilities, including incentive compensation and taxes other than income taxes.  

As of December 31, 2012, Mattel had foreign short-term bank loans outstanding of $9.8 million, an increase of $1.8 million from 2011. The current portion of long-term debt increased $350.0 million from December 31, 2011 to $400.0 million at December 31, 2012, due to the reclassification of $350.0 million of 2008 Senior Notes and $50.0 million of Medium-term notes to current, partially offset by the repayment of $50.0 million of Medium-term notes.  

A summary of Mattel’s capitalization is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total long-term debt decreased $400.0 million from December 31, 2011 to $1.10 billion at December 31, 2012, due to the reclassification of $350.0 million of the 2008 Senior Notes that mature in March 2013 and the reclassification of $50.0 million of Medium-term notes that mature in November 2013 to current. Mattel expects to satisfy its future long-term capital needs through the generation of corporate earnings and issuance of long-term debt instruments, as needed.  

Stockholders’ equity increased $456.4 million from December 31, 2011 to $3.07 billion at December 31, 2012, primarily as a result of net income, issuance of treasury stock for the exercise of stock options, and share-based compensation expense, partially offset by dividend payments and share repurchases.  

Mattel’s debt-to-capital ratio, including short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt, decreased to 33.0% at December 31, 2012 from 37.4% at December 31, 2011, primarily as a result of the increase to stockholders’ equity. Mattel’s objective is to maintain a year-end debt-to-capital ratio of about 35%.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Mattel has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on its financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Commitments  

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into debt agreements and contractual arrangements to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products and for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery. These arrangements include commitments for future inventory and service purchases and royalty payments pursuant to licensing agreements. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the terms of the contracts. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used, which contain minimum rental payments.  

The following table summarizes Mattel’s contractual commitments and obligations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Represents total obligation, including imputed interest of $0.5 million.  

Liabilities for uncertain tax positions for which a cash tax payment is not expected to be made in the next twelve months are classified as other noncurrent liabilities. Due to the uncertainty about the periods in which examinations will be completed and limited information related to current audits, Mattel is not able to make reasonably reliable estimates of the periods in which cash settlements will occur with taxing authorities for the noncurrent liabilities.  

Subsequent Event  

On February 1, 2013, Mattel announced that the Board of Directors declared a first quarter dividend of $0.36 per common share. The dividend is payable on March 8, 2013 to stockholders of record on February 22, 2013.  

Litigation  

The content of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation” is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.  

Effects of Inflation  

Inflation rates in the US and in major foreign countries where Mattel does business have not had a significant impact on its results of operations or financial position during 2012, 2011, or 2010. Mattel receives some protection from the impact of inflation from high turnover of inventories and its ability, under certain circumstances and at certain times, to pass on higher prices to its customers.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Employee Savings Plan  

Mattel sponsors a 401(k) savings plan, the Mattel, Inc. Personal Investment Plan (the “Plan”), for its domestic employees. Contributions to the Plan include voluntary contributions by eligible employees and employer automatic and matching contributions by Mattel. The Plan allows employees to allocate both their voluntary contributions and their employer automatic and matching contributions to a variety of investment funds, including a fund that is fully invested in Mattel common stock (the “Mattel Stock Fund”). Employees are not required to allocate any of their Plan account balance to the Mattel Stock Fund, which allows employees to limit or eliminate their exposure to market changes in Mattel’s stock price. Furthermore, the Plan limits the percentage of the employee’s total account balance that may be allocated to the Mattel Stock Fund to 25%. Employees may generally reallocate their account balances on a daily basis. However, pursuant to Mattel’s insider trading policy, employees classified as insiders and restricted personnel under Mattel’s insider trading policy are limited to certain periods in which they may make allocations into or out of the Mattel Stock Fund.  

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Mattel makes certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The accounting policies and estimates described below are those Mattel considers most critical in preparing its consolidated financial statements. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures included below. These accounting policies and estimates include significant judgments made by management using information available at the time the estimates are made. As described below, however, these estimates could change materially if different information or assumptions were used instead.  

Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements includes a summary of Mattel’s significant accounting policies, estimates, and methods used in the preparation of Mattel’s consolidated financial statements. In most instances, Mattel must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”). See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”  

Accounts Receivable—Allowance for Doubtful Accounts  

The allowance for doubtful accounts represents adjustments to customer trade accounts receivable for amounts deemed partially or entirely uncollectible. Management believes the accounting estimate related to the allowance for doubtful accounts is a “critical accounting estimate” because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including other selling and administrative expenses, net income, and accounts receivable. In addition, the allowance requires a high degree of judgment since it involves estimation of the impact of both current and future economic factors in relation to its customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to Mattel.  

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets and, to a limited extent, wholesalers, and directly to consumers. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.  

In recent years, the mass-market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. Mattel’s sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral and are highly concentrated in the third and fourth quarters due to the cyclical nature of toy sales, which results in a substantial portion of trade receivables being collected during the  

41  

Table of Contents 

 latter half of the year and the first quarter of the following year. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond the control of Mattel. This could increase Mattel’s exposure to losses from bad debts.  

A small number of customers account for a large share of Mattel’s net sales and accounts receivable. In 2012, Mattel’s three largest customers, Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 37% of net sales, and its ten largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 47% of net sales. As of December 31, 2012, Mattel’s three largest customers accounted for approximately 42% of net accounts receivable, and its ten largest customers accounted for approximately 56% of net accounts receivable. The concentration of Mattel’s business with a relatively small number of customers may expose Mattel to a material adverse effect if one or more of Mattel’s large customers were to experience financial difficulty.  

Mattel has procedures to mitigate its risk of exposure to losses from bad debts. Revenue is recognized upon shipment or upon receipt of products by the customer, depending on the terms, provided that: there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; persuasive evidence of an agreement exists documenting the specific terms of the transaction; the sales price is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. Value added taxes are recorded on a net basis, and are excluded from revenue. Credit limits and payment terms are established based on the underlying criteria that collectibility must be reasonably assured at the levels set for each customer. Extensive evaluations are performed on an ongoing basis throughout the fiscal year of each customer’s financial performance, cash generation, financing availability, and liquidity status. Customers are reviewed at least annually, with more frequent reviews being performed, if necessary, based on the customers’ financial condition and the level of credit being extended. For customers who are experiencing financial difficulties, management performs additional financial analyses prior to shipping to those customers on credit. Customers’ terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary, to reflect the results of the review. Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment.  

The following table summarizes Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts is based on management’s assessment of the business environment, customers’ financial condition, historical collection experience, accounts receivable aging, and customer disputes. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts reflect management’s assessment of the factors noted above, including past due accounts, disputed balances with customers, and the financial condition of customers. The allowance for doubtful accounts is also affected by the time at which uncollectible accounts receivable balances are actually written off.  

Mattel believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2012 is adequate and proper. However, as described above, Mattel’s business is greatly dependent on a small number of customers. Should one or more of Mattel’s major customers experience liquidity problems, then the allowance for doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover such losses. Any incremental bad debt charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Inventories—Allowance for Obsolescence  

Inventories, net of an allowance for excess quantities and obsolescence, are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory obsolescence reserves are recorded for damaged, obsolete, excess and slow-moving inventory. Inventory allowances are charged to cost of sales and establish a lower cost basis for the inventory. Management believes that the accounting estimate related to the allowance for obsolescence is a “critical accounting estimate” because changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including gross profit, net income, and inventories. As more fully described below, valuation of Mattel’s inventory could be impacted by changes in public and consumer preferences, demand for product, or changes in the buying patterns of both retailers and consumers and inventory management of customers.  

In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment since actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in excess inventory in a particular product line, which would require management to record a valuation allowance on such inventory.  

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, who usually request delivery within three months. In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers are also attempting to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase inventory valuation risk since Mattel’s inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed.  

When current conditions in the domestic and global economies become uncertain, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts of the economy, including the economies in which Mattel participates. Because all components of Mattel’s budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets it serves and demand for its products, economic uncertainty makes estimates of future demand for product more difficult. Such economic changes may affect the sales of Mattel’s products and its corresponding inventory levels, which could potentially impact the valuation of its inventory.  

At the end of each quarter, management within each business segment, North America, International, and American Girl, performs a detailed review of its inventory on an item-by-item basis and identifies products that are believed to be impaired. Management assesses the need for, and the amount of, an obsolescence reserve based on the following factors:  

   •    Customer and/or consumer demand for the item,  

   •    Overall inventory positions of Mattel’s customers,  

   •    Strength of competing products in the market,  

   •    Quantity on hand of the item,  

   •    Standard retail price of the item,  

   •    Mattel’s cost for the item, and  

   •    Length of time the item has been in inventory.  

43  

Table of Contents 

The time frame between when an estimate is made and the time of disposal depends on the above factors and may vary significantly. Generally, slow-moving inventory is liquidated during the next annual selling cycle.  

The following table summarizes Mattel’s obsolescence reserve at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Management believes that its allowance for obsolescence at December 31, 2012 is adequate and proper. However, the impact resulting from the aforementioned factors could cause actual results to vary. Any incremental obsolescence charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.  

Goodwill and Nonamortizable Intangible Assets  

Mattel tests goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment may have occurred. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to the fair value estimates of its goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income, goodwill, and other intangible assets.  

Assessing goodwill for impairment involves a high degree of judgment since the first step of the required impairment test consists of a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with its book value. Based on the assumptions underlying the valuation, impairment is determined by estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and comparing that value to the reporting unit’s book value. If the fair value is more than the book value of the reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired. If an impairment exists, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of its assets and liabilities excluding goodwill, with the excess amount representing the fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the book value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the estimated fair value of that goodwill.  

For purposes of evaluating whether goodwill is impaired, goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are at the operating segment level. As more fully described in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information,” on January 1, 2012, Mattel changed its operating segments to align with its new organizational structure, which resulted in changes to its reporting units. The new reporting units are: (i) North America, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. Mattel reassigned goodwill to the new reporting units based on a relative fair value approach.  

In 2012, Mattel adopted Accounting Standards Update 2011-08, Intangibles – Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment, which permits an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This qualitative assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test. However, due to the changes in Mattel’s reporting units and the reassignment of its goodwill, Mattel did not perform this qualitative assessment during 2012, and performed quantitative tests for each of its reporting units when evaluating goodwill for impairment.  

When performing the quantitative assessment to evaluate goodwill for impairment, Mattel utilizes the fair value based upon the discounted cash flows that the business can be expected to generate in the future (the “Income Approach”). The Income Approach valuation method requires Mattel to make projections of revenue, operating costs, and working capital investment for the reporting unit over a multi-year period. Additionally, management must make an estimate of a weighted average cost of capital that a market participant would use as a discount rate. Changes in these projections or estimates could result in a reporting unit either passing or failing  

44  

Table of Contents 

 the first step of the impairment model, which could significantly change the amount of any impairment ultimately recorded. During the third quarter, Mattel performed the annual impairment test for goodwill as required and determined that its goodwill was not impaired since, for each of the reporting units, the fair value of the reporting unit substantially exceeded its carrying value. Mattel also considered events and circumstances subsequent to the annual impairment tests in concluding there was no impairment at December 31, 2012.  

Testing nonamortizable intangible assets for impairment also involves a high degree of judgment due to the assumptions that underlie the valuation. Mattel evaluates nonamortizable intangible assets, including trademarks and trade names, for impairment by comparing the estimated fair values with the carrying values. The fair value is measured using either a multi-period excess earnings method, which reflects the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable to the trademark and trade names after deducting the appropriate contributory asset charges, or a multi-period royalty savings method, which reflects the savings realized by owning the trademarks and trade names, and thus not having to pay a royalty fee to a third party. During the third quarter, Mattel performed the annual impairment test for nonamortizable intangible assets as required and determined that its nonamortizable intangible assets were not impaired since the fair value of the nonamortizable intangible assets exceeded its carrying value. Mattel also considered events and circumstances subsequent to these impairment tests in concluding there was no impairment at December 31, 2012. However, during 2012, for one of Mattel’s nonamortizable intangible assets with a carrying value of approximately $113 million, the fair value did not exceed the carrying value by a significant margin. Future changes in estimates resulting in lower than currently anticipated future cash flows and fair value could negatively affect the valuation, which may result in Mattel recognizing an impairment charge in the future.  

Sales Adjustments  

Mattel routinely enters into arrangements with its customers to provide sales incentives, support customer promotions, and provide allowances for returns and defective merchandise. Such programs are based primarily on customer purchases, customer performance of specified promotional activities, and other specified factors such as sales to consumers. Accruals for these programs are recorded as sales adjustments that reduce gross revenue in the period the related revenue is recognized. Sales adjustments for such programs totaled $631.7 million, $575.1 million, and $530.4 million during 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively.  

The above-described programs primarily involve fixed amounts or percentages of sales to customers. Accruals for such programs are calculated based on an assessment of customers’ purchases and performance under the programs and any other specified factors. While the majority of sales adjustment amounts are readily determinable at period end and do not require estimates, certain of the sales adjustments require management to make estimates. In making these estimates, management considers all available information, including the overall business environment, historical trends, and information from customers. Management believes that the accruals recorded for customer programs at December 31, 2012 are adequate and proper.  

Benefit Plan Assumptions  

Mattel and certain of its subsidiaries have retirement and other postretirement benefit plans covering substantially all employees of these companies. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Employee Benefit Plans.”  

Actuarial valuations are used in determining amounts recognized in the financial statements for certain retirement and other postretirement benefit plans. These valuations incorporate the following significant assumptions:  

   •    Weighted average discount rate to be used to measure future plan obligations and interest cost component of plan income or expense;  

   •    Rate of future compensation increases (for defined benefit pension plans);  

   •    Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (for funded plans); and  

   •    Health care cost trend rates (for other postretirement benefit plans).  

45  

Table of Contents 

Management believes that these assumptions are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in these assumptions could impact Mattel’s results of operations and financial position. Management believes that the assumptions utilized to record its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on the plans’ experience and advice received from its outside actuaries. Mattel reviews its benefit plan assumptions annually and modifies its assumptions based on current rates and trends as appropriate. The effects of such changes in assumptions are amortized as part of plan income or expense in future periods.  

At the end of each fiscal year, Mattel determines the weighted average discount rate used to calculate the projected benefit obligation. The discount rate is an estimate of the current interest rate at which the benefit plan liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. The discount rate also impacts the interest cost component of plan income or expense. At December 31, 2012, Mattel determined the discount rate for its domestic benefit plans used in determining the projected and accumulated benefit obligations to be 4.0%, as compared to 4.5% and 5.2% for December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In estimating this rate, Mattel reviews rates of return on high-quality, corporate bond indices, which approximate the timing and amount of benefit payments. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, the decrease in the discount rate from 4.5% to 4.0% would result in an increase in benefit plan expense during 2013 of approximately $3 million.  

The rate of future compensation increases used by Mattel for the benefit obligation and the net periodic pension cost of its domestic defined benefit pension plans averaged 3.8% for 2012, 2011, and 2010, based on plan demographics. These assumptions are reviewed annually based on historical salary increases for participants in the defined benefit pension plans. This assumption impacts the service and interest cost components of plan income or expense.  

The long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on management’s expectation of earnings on the assets that secure Mattel’s funded defined benefit pension plans, taking into account the mix of invested assets, the arithmetic average of past returns, economic and stock market conditions and future expectations, and the long-term nature of the projected benefit obligation to which these investments relate. The long-term rate of return is used to calculate the expected return on plan assets that is used in calculating pension income or expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred, net of tax, and is included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension income or expense. Mattel’s long-term rate of return for its domestic defined benefit pension plans was 8.0% in 2012, 2011, and 2010. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase in benefit plan expense during 2013 of approximately $3 million.  

The health care cost trend rates used by Mattel for its other postretirement benefit plans reflect management’s best estimate of expected claim costs over the next ten years. These trend rates impact the service and interest cost components of plan expense. Rates ranging from 7.5% in 2012 to 5.0% in 2017, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2017 and thereafter, were used in determining plan expense for 2012. These rates are reviewed annually and are estimated based on historical costs for participants in the other postretirement benefit plans as well as estimates based on current economic conditions. As of December 31, 2012, Mattel adjusted the health care cost trend rates for its other postretirement benefit plan obligation to 8.5% for participants younger than age 65 and 7.5% for participants age 65 and older. The cost trend rates are estimated to reduce to 6.1% for participants younger than age 65 and 5.4% for participants age 65 and older by 2030, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2030. Assuming all other postretirement benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would increase benefit plan expense during 2013 by $0.2 million.  

A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each future year would impact the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2012 by $1.8 million and $(1.5) million, respectively, while a one percentage point increase/(decrease) would impact the service and interest cost recognized for 2012 by $0.1 million and $(0.1) million, respectively.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Share-Based Payments  

Mattel recognizes the cost of employee share-based payment awards on a straight-line attribution basis over the requisite employee service period, net of estimated forfeitures. In determining when additional tax benefits associated with share-based payment exercises are recognized, Mattel follows the ordering of deductions under the tax law, which allows deductions for share-based payment exercises to be utilized before previously existing net operating loss carryforwards.  

Determining the fair value of share-based awards at the measurement date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term that stock options will be outstanding prior to exercise, the associated volatility, and the expected dividends. Mattel estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected life of the options used in this calculation is the period of time the options are expected to be outstanding and has been determined based on historical exercise experience. Expected stock price volatility is based on the historical volatility of Mattel’s stock for a period approximating the expected life, the expected dividend yield is based on Mattel’s most recent actual annual dividend payout, and the risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on US Treasury zero-coupon issues approximating the expected life. Judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that will be forfeited prior to vesting. Management believes that these assumptions are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income.  

The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted during 2012, 2011, and 2010 was $7.32, $5.76, and $4.84, respectively. The following weighted average assumptions were used in determining the fair value of options granted:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table summarizes the sensitivity of valuation assumptions within the calculation of stock option fair values, if all other assumptions are held constant:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mattel recognized compensation expense of $13.8 million, $14.5 million, and $13.4 million for stock options during 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, which is included within other selling and administrative expenses. Compensation expense recognized related to grants of restricted stock units was $49.5 million, $39.0  

47  

Table of Contents 

 million, and $53.8 million in 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively, and is also included within other selling and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2012, total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based payments totaled $76.5 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.  

Income Taxes  

Mattel’s income tax provision and related income tax assets and liabilities are based on actual and expected future income, US and foreign statutory income tax rates, and tax regulations and planning opportunities in the various jurisdictions in which Mattel operates. Management believes that the accounting estimate related to income taxes is a “critical accounting estimate” because significant judgment is required in interpreting tax regulations in the US and in foreign jurisdictions, evaluating Mattel’s worldwide uncertain tax positions, and assessing the likelihood of realizing certain tax benefits. Actual results could differ materially from those judgments, and changes in judgments could materially affect Mattel’s consolidated financial statements.  

Certain income and expense items are accounted for differently for financial reporting and income tax purposes. As a result, the tax expense reflected in Mattel’s consolidated statements of operations is different than that reported in Mattel’s tax returns filed with the taxing authorities. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in Mattel’s tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These timing differences create deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in Mattel’s tax returns in future years for which Mattel has already recorded a tax benefit in its consolidated statement of operations. Mattel records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred income tax assets if, based on the weight of available evidence, management believes expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction. Management evaluates the level of Mattel’s valuation allowances at least annually, and more frequently if actual operating results differ significantly from forecasted results.  

Mattel records unrecognized tax benefits for US federal, state, local, and foreign tax positions related primarily to transfer pricing, tax credits claimed, tax nexus, and apportionment. For each reporting period, management applies a consistent methodology to measure unrecognized tax benefits and all unrecognized tax benefits are reviewed periodically and adjusted as circumstances warrant. Mattel’s measurement of its unrecognized tax benefits is based on management’s assessment of all relevant information, including prior audit experience, the status of current audits, conclusions of tax audits, lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, identification of new issues, and any administrative guidance or developments. Mattel recognizes unrecognized tax benefits in the first financial reporting period in which information becomes available indicating that such benefits will more-likely-than-not be realized.  

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2012 was 17.8%, as compared to 20.8% in 2011. The 2012 income tax provision includes net tax benefits of $16.0 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of current audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

The 2011 income tax provision includes net tax benefits of $6.8 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.  

The 2010 income tax provision includes net tax benefits of $16.8 million, primarily related to the release of a valuation allowance related to the anticipated utilization of excess foreign tax credit carryforwards, reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by the incremental tax cost to repatriate earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries for which income taxes had not been previously provided.  

48  

Table of Contents 

In the normal course of business, Mattel is regularly audited by federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities. The ultimate settlement of any particular issue with the applicable taxing authority could have a material impact on Mattel’s consolidated financial statements.  

New Accounting Pronouncements  

See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”  

Non-GAAP Financial Measure  

In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Mattel includes a non-GAAP financial measure, gross sales, which it uses to analyze its operations and to monitor, assess, and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. Net sales, as reported in the consolidated statements of operations, include the impact of sales adjustments such as trade discounts and other allowances. Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Consistent with its segment reporting, Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, business unit, brand, and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel’s business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the detail of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful.  

A reconciliation of gross sales to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, net sales, is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

49  

Table of Contents 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.