PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Introduction

The Sherwin-Williams Company, founded in 1866 and incorporated in Ohio in 1884, is engaged in the development, manufacture, distribution and sale of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers primarily in North and South America with additional operations in the Caribbean region, Europe, Asia and Australia. Our principal executive offices are located at 101 West Prospect Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44115-1075, telephone (216) 566-2000. As used in this report, the terms “Sherwin-Williams,” “Company,” “we” and “our” mean The Sherwin-Williams Company and its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.

Available Information

We make available free of charge on or through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may access these documents on the “Investor Relations” page of our website at www.sherwin.com.

We also make available free of charge on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines, our Director Independence Standards, our Code of Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee, our Compensation and Management Development Committee and our Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. You may access these documents in the “Corporate Governance” section on the “Investor Relations” page of our website at www.sherwin.com.

Basis of Reportable Segments

The Company reports its segment information in the same way that management internally organizes its business for assessing performance and making decisions regarding allocation of resources in accordance with the Segment Reporting Topic of the Accounting Standards Codification (ASC). Upon completion of the Valspar acquisition in the second quarter of 2017, the Company made important changes to its organizational and reporting structure that resulted in establishing three reportable operating segments: The Americas Group, Consumer Brands Group and Performance Coatings Group (individually, a "Reportable Segment" and collectively, the “Reportable Segments”). Prior period reporting has been adjusted to reflect the updated reportable segments. Factors considered in determining the three Reportable Segments of the Company include the nature of business activities, the management structure directly accountable to the Company’s chief operating decision maker (CODM) for operating and administrative activities, availability of discrete financial information and information presented to the Board of Directors. The Company reports all other business activities and immaterial operating segments that are not reportable in the Administrative segment. For more information about the Reportable Segments, see pages 8 through 15 of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

The Company’s CODM has been identified as the Chief Executive Officer because he has final authority over performance assessment and resource allocation decisions. Because of the diverse operations of the Company, the CODM regularly receives discrete financial information about each Reportable Segment as well as a significant amount of additional financial information about certain divisions, business units or subsidiaries of the Company. The CODM uses all such financial information for performance assessment and resource allocation decisions. The CODM evaluates the performance of and allocates resources to the Reportable Segments based on profit or loss before income taxes and cash generated from operations. The accounting policies of the Reportable Segments are the same as those described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 46 through 50 of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

The Americas Group

The Americas Group Reportable Segment includes the Company's previous Paint Stores Group and Latin America Coatings Group, along with a specialty retail business of Valspar. The Americas Group consisted of 4,620 company-operated specialty paint stores in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean region at December 31, 2017. Each store in this segment is engaged in servicing the needs of architectural and industrial paint contractors and do-it-yourself homeowners. The Americas Group company-owned stores market and sell Sherwin-Williams® and other controlled brand architectural paint and coatings, protective and marine products, OEM product finishes and related products. The majority of these products are produced by manufacturing facilities in the Consumer Brands Group. In addition, each store sells select purchased associated products. In addition to our stores in the Latin America region, The Americas Group meets regional customer demands through developing, licensing, manufacturing, distributing and selling a variety of architectural paints, coatings and related products in North and South America. The loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on he business of this segment. At December 31, 2017, The Americas Group consisted of operations from subsidiaries in 9 foreign countries. During 2017, this segment opened 101 net new stores, consisting of 114 new stores opened (76 in the 

1

United States, 15 in Canada, 1 in Curacao, 14 in South America and 8 in Mexico) and 13 stores closed (4 in the United States, 1 in Canada, 6 in South America and 2 in Mexico). In 2016 and 2015, this segment opened 142 and 98 net new stores, respectively. A map on the cover flap of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, shows the number of paint stores and their geographic location. The CODM uses discrete financial information about The Americas Group, supplemented with information by geographic region, product type and customer type, to assess performance of and allocate resources to The Americas Group as a whole. In accordance with ASC 280-10-50-9, The Americas Group as a whole is considered the operating segment, and because it meets the criteria in ASC 280-10-50-10, it is also considered a Reportable Segment.

Consumer Brands Group

The Consumer Brands Group Reportable Segment includes the Company's previous Consumer Group along with Valspar's previous Consumer Paints segment, excluding Valspar's automotive refinishes products business. The Consumer Brands Group supplies a broad portfolio of branded and private-label architectural paints, stains, varnishes, industrial products, wood finishes products, wood preservatives, applicators, corrosion inhibitors, aerosols, caulks and adhesives to retailers and distributors throughout North America, as well as in Australia, China and Europe. The Consumer Brands Group also supports the Company's other businesses around the world with new product research and development, manufacturing, distribution and logistics Approximately 59.47% of the total sales of the Consumer Brands Group in 2017 were intersegment transfers of products primarily sold through The Americas Group. At December 31, 2017, the Consumer Brands Group consisted of operations in the United States and subsidiaries in 6 foreign countries. Sales and marketing of certain controlled brand and private labeled products is performed by a direct sales staff. The products distributed through third-party customers are intended for resale to the ultimate end-user of the product. The Consumer Brands Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales of the segment. However, the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall profitability of the segment. This segment incurred most of the Company’s capital expenditures related to ongoing environmental compliance measures at sites currently in operation. The CODM uses discrete financial information about the Consumer Brands Group, supplemented with information by product type and customer type, to assess performance of and allocate resources to the Consumer Brands Group as a whole. In accordance with ASC 280-10-50-9, the Consumer Brands Group as a whole is considered the operating segment, and because it meets the criteria in ASC 280-10-50-10, it is also considered a Reportable Segment.

Performance Coatings Group

The Performance Coatings Group Reportable Segment includes the Company's previous Global Finishes Group and Valspar's previous Coatings Group segment. The Performance Coatings Group also includes Valspar's automotive refinishes products business, which was previously reported under Valspar's Consumer Paints segment. Valspar’s North American industrial wood coatings business, which was previously reported under the Valspar's Coatings Group segment, was divested. The Performance Coatings Group develops and sells industrial coatings for wood finishing and general industrial (metal and plastic) applications, automotive refinish, protective and marine coatings, coil coatings, packaging coatings and performance-based resins and colorants worldwide. In addition, a specialty coatings business previously in the Company's Consumer Group is now included in the Performance Coatings Group. This segment licenses certain technology and trade names worldwide. Sherwin-Williams® and other controlled brand products are distributed through The Americas Group and this segment’s 290 company-operated branches and by a direct sales staff and outside sales representatives to retailers, dealers, jobbers, licensees and other third-party distributors. The Performance Coatings Group had sales to certain customers that, individually, may be a significant portion of the sales of the segment. However, the loss of any single customer would not have a material adverse effect on the overall profitability of the segment. During 2017, this segment opened 4 new branches and closed 2 branches for a net increase of 2 branches. At December 31, 2017, the Performance Coatings Group consisted of operations in the United States and subsidiaries in 44 foreign countries. The CODM uses discrete financial information about the Performance Coatings Group, supplemented with information about geographic divisions, business units and subsidiaries, to assess performance of and allocate resources to the Performance Coatings Group as a whole. In accordance with ASC 280-10-50-9, the Performance Coatings Group as a whole is considered the operating segment, and because it meets the criteria in ASC 280-10-50-10, it is also considered a Reportable Segment. A map on the cover flap of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference, shows the number of branches and their geographic locations.

Administrative Segment

The Administrative segment includes the administrative expenses of the Company’s corporate headquarters site. Also included in the Administrative segment is interest expense, interest and investment income, certain expenses related to closed facilities and environmental-related matters, and other expenses which are not directly associated with the Reportable Segments. The Administrative segment does not include any significant foreign operations. Also included in the Administrative segment is a real estate management unit that is responsible for the ownership, management, and leasing of non-retail 

2

properties held primarily for use by the Company, including the Company’s headquarters site, and disposal of idle facilities. Sales of this segment represents external leasing revenue of excess headquarters space or leasing of facilities no longer used by the Company in its primary businesses. Material gains and losses from the sale of property are infrequent and not a significant operating factor in determining the performance of the Administrative segment.

Segment Financial Information

For financial information regarding our Reportable Segments, including net external sales, segment profit, identifiable assets and other information by Reportable Segment, see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 74 through 77 of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Domestic and Foreign Operations

Financial and other information regarding domestic and foreign operations is set forth in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 76 of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Additional information regarding risks attendant to foreign operations is set forth on page 29 of our 2017 Annual Report under the caption “Market Risk” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation,” which is incorporated herein by reference.

Business Developments

For additional information regarding our business and business developments, see pages 8 through 15 of our 2017 Annual Report and the “Letter to Shareholders” on pages 2 through 6 of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Raw Materials and Products Purchased for Resale

We believe we generally have adequate sources of raw materials and fuel supplies used in our business. There are sufficient suppliers of each product purchased for resale that none of the Reportable Segments anticipate any significant sourcing problems during 2018. See Item 1A Risk Factors for more information regarding cost and sourcing of raw materials.

Seasonality

The majority of the sales for the Reportable Segments traditionally occur during the second and third quarters. There is no significant seasonality in sales for the Administrative segment.

Working Capital

In order to meet increased demand during the second and third quarters, the Company usually builds its inventories during the first quarter. Working capital items (inventories and accounts receivable) are generally financed through short-term borrowings, which include the use of lines of credit and the issuance of commercial paper. For a description of the Company’s liquidity and capital resources, see pages 24 through 29 of our 2017 Annual Report under the caption “Financial Condition, Liquidity and Cash Flow” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which is incorporated herein by reference.

Trademarks and Trade Names

Customer recognition of our trademarks and trade names collectively contribute significantly to our sales. The major trademarks and trade names used by each of the Reportable Segments are set forth below.

•The Americas Group: Sherwin-Williams®, A-100®, Cashmere®, Colorgin®, Condor®, Duracraft®, Duration Home®, Duration®, Emerald®, Harmony®, HGTV Home® by Sherwin- Williams, Kem Pro®, Kem Tone®, Krylon®, Loxon®, Marson®, Martin Senour®, Metalatex®, Minwax®, Novacor®, Paint Shield®, PrepRite®, ProClassic®, ProCraft ®, ProConstructor®, ProIndustrial™, ProMar®, ProPark®, Solo®, Sumaré®, SuperDeck®, SuperPaint®, Ultra Proteccion®, Woodscapes® 

•Consumer Brands Group: Accurate Dispersions™, Altax™, Bestt Liebco®, Cabot®, Conco®, Duckback®, Dupli-Color®, DuraSeal®, Dutch Boy®, Geocel®, Granosite®, H&C®, HGTV HOME® by Sherwin-Williams, Huarun™, Kool Seal®, Krylon®, Martin Senour®, Mason’s Select®, Minwax®, Pratt & Lambert®, Purdy®, Ronseal™, Rubberset®, Snow Roof®, Solver®, Sprayon®, SuperDeck®, Thompson’s® WaterSeal®, Tri-Flow®, Uniflex®, Valspar®, VHT®, Wattyl®, White Lightning® 

•Performance Coatings Group: Sherwin-Williams®, Acrolon®, AcromaPro®,Arti™, ATX™, AWX Performance Plus™, Baco®, Conely®, DeBeer®, DFL™, Dimension®, Duraspar™, Envirolastic®, Euronavy®, Excelo®, Fastline®, Finish 1™, Firetex®, Fluropon®, Genesis®, Heat-Flex®, House of Kolor®, Huarun™, Inchem®, Inver®, Kem Aqua®, Lanet™, Lazzuril®, Macropoxy®, Magnalux™, Martin Senour®, Matrix®, ML Campbell®, Oece™, 

3

PermaClad®, Planet Color®, Polane®, Powdura®, Prospray®, Sayerlack®, Sher-Wood®, Ultra-Cure®, Ultra™, USC®, ValPure® V70, Valspar®, Wattyl® 

Patents

Although patents and licenses are not of material importance to our business as a whole or any segment, The Americas Group and the Performance Coatings Group derive a portion of their income from the licensing of technology, trademarks and trade names to foreign companies.

Backlog and Productive Capacity

Backlog orders are not significant in the business of any Reportable Segment since there is normally a short period of time between the placing of an order and shipment. We believe that sufficient productive capacity currently exists to fulfill our needs for paint, coatings and related products through 2018.

Research and Development

For information regarding our costs of research and development included in technical expenditures, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on page 49 of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Competition

We experience competition from many local, regional, national and international competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. We are a leading manufacturer and retailer of paint, coatings and related products to professional, industrial, commercial and retail customers, however, our competitive position varies for our different products and markets.

In The Americas Group, competitors include other paint and wallpaper stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets. Product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the competitive advantage for this segment.

In the Consumer Brands Group, domestic and foreign competitors include manufacturers and distributors of branded and private labeled paint and coatings products. Technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for this segment.

The Performance Coatings Group has numerous competitors in its domestic and foreign markets with broad product offerings and several others with niche products. Key competitive factors for this segment include technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price.

The Administrative segment has many competitors consisting of other real estate owners, developers and managers in areas in which this segment owns property. The main competitive factors are the availability of property and price.

Employees

We employed 52,695 persons at December 31, 2017.

Environmental Compliance

For additional information regarding environmental-related matters, see page 27 of our 2017 Annual Report under the caption “Environmental-Related Liabilities” of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Notes 1, 8 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 48, 62 through 63 and 69 through 70, respectively, of our 2017 Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

Certain statements contained in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” “Letter to Shareholders” and elsewhere in this report constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These forward-looking statements are based upon management's current expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events and conditions and may discuss, among other things, anticipated future performance (including sales and earnings), expected growth, future business plans and the costs and potential liability for environmental-related matters and the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation. Any statement that is not historical in nature is a forward-looking statement and may be identified by the use of words and phrases such as "believe," "expect," "may," "will," "should," "project," "could," "plan," "goal," "potential," "seek," "intend" or "anticipate" or the negative thereof or comparable terminology.

Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are outside our control, that could cause actual 

4

results to differ materially from such statements and from our historical results and experience. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include such things as:

•general business conditions, strengths of retail and manufacturing economies and the growth in the coatings industry;

•changes in general domestic economic conditions such as inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, and changing government policies, laws and regulations;

•changes in raw material and energy supplies and pricing; 

•changes in our relationships with customers and suppliers;

•our ability to successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations, including Valspar, as well as the performance of the businesses acquired;

•risks inherent in the achievement of anticipated cost synergies resulting from the acquisition of Valspar and the timing thereof;

•competitive factors, including pricing pressures and product innovation and quality;

•our ability to attain cost savings from productivity initiatives;

•risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in Asia, Europe, South America and other foreign markets, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest and other external economic and political factors;

•the achievement of growth in foreign markets, such as Asia, Europe and South America;

•increasingly stringent domestic and foreign governmental regulations, including those affecting health, safety and the environment; 

•inherent uncertainties involved in assessing our potential liability for environmental-related activities;

•other changes in governmental policies, laws and regulations, including changes in accounting policies and standards and taxation requirements (such as new tax laws and new or revised tax law interpretations);

•the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation and other claims, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, and the effect of any legislation and administrative regulations relating thereto; and

•adverse weather conditions and natural disasters. 

Readers are cautioned that it is not possible to predict or identify all of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that may affect future results and that the above list should not be considered to be a complete list. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise except as otherwise required by law.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS