PART I 

     Item 1. Business. 

Introduction  

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world's largest home improvement retailer and the second largest retailer in the United States ("U.S."), based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2008 ("fiscal 2007"). As of the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 2,234 stores, most of which are The Home Depot stores.  

The Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 105,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 23,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2007, we had 2,193 The Home Depot stores located throughout the U.S. (including the territories of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and Guam), Canada, China and Mexico. In addition, at the end of fiscal 2007, the Company operated 34 EXPO Design Center stores, two THD Design Center stores and five Yardbirds stores.  

On August 30, 2007, we closed the sale of HD Supply. We received net proceeds of $8.3 billion and recognized a loss of $4 million, net of tax, for the sale of the business. In connection with the sale, we purchased a 12.5% equity interest in the newly formed HD Supply for $325 million and guaranteed a $1.0 billion senior secured loan of HD Supply.  

1 

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.  

We maintain an Internet website at www.homedepot.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.  

We include our website addresses throughout this filing only as textual references. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.  

Our Business  

Operating Strategy. In fiscal 2007, following changes in senior Company management and in the face of rapid deterioration in the housing, residential construction and home improvement markets, we adopted and implemented strategic objectives of focusing on our retail business, investing in our associates and stores, improving customer service and returning capital to shareholders. We completed the sale of HD Supply; we completed approximately one-half of our $22.5 billion recapitalization plan by acquiring approximately 15% of our outstanding shares; and we invested over $2 billion in five key operating priorities: associate engagement, product excitement, product availability, shopping environment and own the pro. Further information about our efforts on each of these key priorities may be found in Part II, Item 7.  

Customers. The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups:    

•Do-It-Yourself ("D-I-Y") Customers: These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. To complement the expertise of our associates, The Home Depot stores offer "how-to" clinics taught by associates and merchandise vendors. 

•Do-It-For-Me ("D-I-F-M") Customers: These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials themselves and hire third parties to complete the project and/or installation. We arrange for the installation of a variety of The Home Depot products through qualified independent contractors. 

•Professional Customers: These customers are professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small business owners and tradesmen. In many stores, we offer a variety of programs to these customers, including additional delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff, extensive merchandise selections and expanded credit programs, all of which we believe increase sales to these customers.   

2 

Products. A typical Home Depot store stocks 35,000 to 45,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. The following table shows the percentage of Net Sales of each major product group (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

In fiscal 2007, we focused on driving merchandising fundamentals and continuing to deliver innovative and distinctive products. Key areas of success included:    

•Introducing new technology in great products like Behr paint with nano-guard which eliminates the need for priming in exterior painting and Shark Bite pipe fittings which takes welding out of the pipe connection process in plumbing; 

•Launching environmentally friendly Eco OptionsSM products across many categories, including compact fluorescent bulbs, cleaning products and natural live goods; and 

•Remaining focused on affordable luxury by introducing new products in Hampton Bay Patio, Charmglow grills, GE CleanSteel™ appliances, LG Kitchen Series, TrafficMaster Allure resilient flooring and Shaw Highstakes carpet.   

To complement and enhance our product selection, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized brand names. During fiscal 2007, we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments including, but not limited to, Behr Premium Plus® paint, Charmglow® gas grills, Hampton Bay® lighting, Vigoro® lawn care products, Husky® hand tools, RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools, Pegasus® faucets, Traffic Master® carpet, Glacier Bay® bath fixtures and Veranda® decking products. We may consider additional strategic alliances and relationships with other suppliers and will continue to assess opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.  

From our Store Support Center we maintain a global sourcing merchandise program to source high-quality products directly from manufacturers around the world. Our Product Development Merchants travel internationally in order to identify and purchase market leading innovative products directly for our stores. Additionally, we have four sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities of Shanghai, Shenzhen, Dalian and Chengdu, and offices in Gurgaon, India; Milan, Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada. In addition to our global sourcing teams, we also have quality assurance and engineer teams who ensure that the products we source (globally or domestic) comply with federal, state and local standards.  

Services. Our stores offer a variety of installation services. These services target D-I-F-M customers who select and purchase products and installation of those products from us. These installation programs include products such as carpeting, flooring, cabinets, countertops and water heaters. In addition, we provide professional installation of a number of products sold through our in-home sales programs, such as generators and furnace and central air systems.  

3 

Store Growth  

United States. At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 1,950 The Home Depot stores in the U.S., including the territories of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands and Guam. During fiscal 2007, we opened 87 new The Home Depot stores, including nine relocations, in the U.S.  

Canada. At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 165 The Home Depot stores in ten Canadian provinces. Of these stores, ten were opened during fiscal 2007.  

Mexico. At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 66 The Home Depot stores in Mexico. Of these stores, six were opened during fiscal 2007, including one relocation.  

China. At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 12 The Home Depot stores in six Chinese cities.  

Other. In fiscal 2007, we opened five Yardbirds stores in California and a THD Design Center in California and North Carolina. At the end of fiscal 2007, we were operating 34 EXPO Design Center stores in 13 states. Also in fiscal 2007, we closed our 11 The Home Depot Landscape Supply stores and our two The Home Depot Floor stores.  

Financial information about our operations outside of the U.S. is reported in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Store Support Services  

Information Technologies. During fiscal 2007, we continued to make information technology investments to better support our customers and provide an improved overall shopping environment and experience.  

With our focus on the stores, we provided technology improvements designed to help store associates perform their jobs and improve customer service. Over 650 stores received new computers, registers and printers, while over 1,100 stores received a refresh of their self-checkout equipment. All stores received a design system upgrade and new equipment to allow sales to be processed in the specialty departments and over 100 stores received new paint dispensers. A satellite-based network was deployed to all stores in order to increase network resiliency and connectivity to our data centers. Along with the improvements to the stores, we installed new hardware in approximately 18 logistics facilities.  

The installation of a new Radio Call Box system, designed to help customers obtain in-aisle assistance, was completed in every store across the U.S. and Canada. The deployment of self-checkout registers to all our stores was completed, and new coupon handling automation was implemented. We equipped managers, designers and expediters with BlackBerry/cell phone devices and e-mail accounts enabling them to more easily communicate with customers and store support centers.  

In addition to significant investments in store technology, new warehouse and transportation management technology was implemented in support of our supply chain. A new Customer Care technology was implemented in the store support center and each store to assist with recording and resolving customer disputes. Considerable progress was made in the development of an ERP system (Core Retail) that will first be deployed in Canada in 2008.  

Credit Services. We offer six credit programs through third-party credit providers to professional, D-I-Y and D-I-F-M customers. In fiscal 2007, approximately 4.3 million new The Home Depot credit accounts were opened, and the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 13 million. Proprietary credit card sales accounted for approximately 29% of store sales in fiscal 2007.  

Logistics. Our logistics programs are designed to ensure product availability for customers, effective use of our investment in inventory and low total supply chain costs. At the end of fiscal 2007, we  

4 

operated 30 lumber distribution centers in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, and 39 conventional distribution centers located in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. At the end of fiscal 2007, we also operated eight transit facilities in the U.S. and Mexico to receive and consolidate store merchandise orders from suppliers for delivery to our stores.  

In fiscal 2007, approximately 20% of the merchandise shipped to our U.S. stores flowed through the distribution centers, and about 20% through the transit facilities. The remaining merchandise was shipped directly from suppliers to our stores.  

During fiscal 2007, we introduced improved flow-through distribution processes in an existing U.S. transit facility by converting it to a Rapid Deployment Center ("RDC"). RDCs allow for aggregation of store product needs to a single purchase order, and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the center. This process allows improved transportation, simplified order processing at suppliers, and reduced lead time from store product need determination to replenishment. We opened a second RDC facility in January 2008. We plan to open several more RDCs in the U.S. over the next few years to increase our central distribution capabilities and product flow-through.  

In addition to replenishing merchandise at our stores, we also provide delivery of in-stock and special order product directly to our customers.  

Associates. At the end of fiscal 2007, we employed approximately 331,000 associates, of whom approximately 26,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. Approximately 67% of our associates are employed on a full-time basis. We believe that our employee relations are very good. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve.  

Intellectual Property. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Homer TLC, Inc., we have registered or applied for registration, in a number of countries, for a variety of internet domain names, service marks and trademarks for use in our businesses, including The Home Depot®; Hampton Bay® fans, lighting and accessories; Glacier Bay® toilets, sinks and faucets; Pegasus® faucets and bath accessories; Commercial Electric® lighting fixtures; Workforce® tools, tool boxes and shelving; and www.doitherself.com. We have also obtained and now maintain patent portfolios relating to certain products and services provided by The Home Depot, and continually seek to patent or otherwise protect selected innovations we incorporate into our products and business operations. We regard our intellectual property as having significant value to our business and as being an important factor in the marketing of our brand, e-commerce, stores and new areas of our business. We are not aware of any facts that could be expected to have a material adverse effect on our intellectual property.  

Quality Assurance Program. We have both quality assurance and engineering resources who oversee the quality of our directly imported globally-sourced and proprietary products. Through these programs, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance that are designed to ensure our products comply with federal, state and local quality/performance standards. These programs also allow us to measure and track timeliness of shipments. These performance records are made available to the factories to allow them to strive for improvement. The program addresses quality assurance at the factory, product and packaging levels.  

Environmental, Health & Safety ("EH&S"). We are committed to maintaining a safe environment for our customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our EH&S function in the field is directed by trained associates focused primarily on execution of the EH&S programs. Additionally, we have an Atlanta-based team of dedicated EH&S professionals who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis.  

5 

Environmental. The Home Depot is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner and this commitment impacts all areas of our business, including store construction and maintenance, energy usage, product selection and customer education. In fiscal 2007, we budgeted approximately $50 million for energy efficiency related projects. By replacing HVAC units in approximately 200 existing stores and switching to the use of T-5 lighting in approximately 600 existing stores, we estimate savings to be approximately $20 million since fiscal 2006. In addition, we have implemented strict operational standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of our facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as implementation of the Novar Energy Management and Alarm System in each store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by implementing these energy saving programs we have avoided 907 million pounds of greenhouse gas emissions. We believe this is equivalent to removing approximately 75,000 cars from the highway.  

We have also taken additional measures to further our sustainability efforts. We partnered with the U.S. Green Building Council and have built five LEED green certified stores. We offset the carbon emissions created by our facilities and a portion of those emissions created by business related travel through an agreement with The Conservation Fund that resulted in the planting of thousands of trees that will help reduce the heat-island effect in urban areas, reduce erosion and help clean the air. Through our Eco OptionsSM Program, we have created product categories that allow consumers to easily identify environmentally preferred product selections in our stores. We implemented a Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program to ensure that our suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.  

Seasonality. Our business is seasonal to a certain extent. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter.  

Competition. Our business is highly competitive, based in part on price, store location, customer service and assortment of merchandise. In each of the markets we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products, we also compete with discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers. In addition to these entities, our EXPO Design Center stores compete with specialty design stores or showrooms, some of which are only open to interior design professionals. Due to the variety of competition we face, we are unable to precisely measure the impact on our sales by our competitors.  

     Item 1A. Risk Factors.