Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties – many of which are beyond our control or are unknown to us – as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Item 8. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not perceive them to be material. Such factors could cause results to differ materially from our expectations.  

6 

The state of the housing, construction and home improvement markets, rising costs, a reduction in the availability of financing, weather and other conditions in North America could adversely affect our costs of doing business, demand for our products and services and our financial performance.  

In recent months, the housing, residential construction and home improvement markets have deteriorated dramatically. We expect the deterioration to continue through 2008, and our fiscal 2008 Net Sales and Diluted Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations to decline. Other factors – including interest rate fluctuations, fuel and other energy costs, labor and healthcare costs, the availability of financing, the state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit, consumer confidence, weather, natural disasters and other factors beyond our control – could adversely affect demand for our products and services and our financial performance. These and other similar factors could:    

•increase our costs, 

•cause our customers to delay undertaking or determine not to undertake new home improvement projects, 

•cause our customers to delay purchasing or determine not to purchase home improvement products and services, and 

•lead to a decline in customer transactions and our financial performance.   

We rely on third party suppliers, and if we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified suppliers, our ability to timely and efficiently access products that meet our high standards for quality could be adversely affected.  

We buy our products from suppliers located throughout the world. Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high standards for quality and our need to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge. Our ability to access products also can be adversely affected by political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' noncompliance with applicable laws, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and cost and other factors beyond our control.  

If we are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and relationships with selected suppliers of brand name products, we may be unable to effectively execute our strategy to differentiate ourselves from our competitors.  

As part of our strategy of product differentiation, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized brand names. If we are unable to manage and expand these alliances and relationships or identify alternative sources for comparable products, we may not be able to effectively execute our strategy of differentiation.  

Any inability to open new stores on schedule will delay the contribution of these new stores to our financial performance.  

We expect to increase our presence in certain existing markets and enter new markets. Our ability to open new stores will depend primarily on our ability to:    

•identify attractive locations, 

•negotiate leases or real estate purchase agreements on acceptable terms, 

•attract and train qualified employees, and 

•manage pre-opening expenses, including construction costs.   

7 

Environmental regulations, local zoning issues and other laws related to land use affect our ability to open new stores. Failure to effectively manage these and other similar factors will affect our ability to open stores on schedule, which will delay the impact of these new stores on our financial performance.  

The implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail.  

We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant investments in our supply chain and technology. These initiatives are designed to streamline our operations to allow our associates to continue to provide high quality service to our customers and to provide our customers with a better experience. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits, or the initiatives might fail altogether.  

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.  

It is difficult to successfully predict the products and services our customers will demand. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. Failure to design attractive stores and to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences, spending patterns and home improvement needs could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share.  

The inflation or deflation of commodity prices could affect our prices, demand for our products, sales and profit margins.  

Prices of certain commodity products, including lumber and other raw materials, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations and periodic delays in delivery. Rapid and significant changes in commodity prices may affect our sales and profit margins.  

If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in expanding our international operations.  

Our strategy includes expansion of our operations in international markets by selective acquisitions, strategic alliances and the opening of new stores. Our ability to successfully execute our strategy in international markets is affected by many of the same operational risks we face in expanding our U.S. operations. In addition, international expansion may be adversely affected by our inability to identify and gain access to local suppliers as well as by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations.  

Our success depends upon our ability to attract, train and retain highly qualified associates.  

To be successful, we must attract, train and retain a large number of highly qualified associates while controlling labor costs. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors,  

8 

including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs. In addition, many of our associates are in hourly positions with historically high turnover rates. We compete with other retail businesses for these associates and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. We also depend on our executives and other key associates for our success. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future.  

Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.  

Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, inventories, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.  

Increased competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our products and services and could decrease our market share.  

We operate in markets that are highly competitive. We compete principally based on price, store location, customer service and assortment of merchandise. In each market we serve, there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products, we also compete with discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and other retailers. In addition, we compete with specialty design stores or showrooms, some of which are only open to interior design professionals, local and regional distributors, and wholesalers and manufacturers that sell products directly to their customer bases. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors could affect prices or demand for our products and services. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to these competitive pressures, our financial performance and our market share could be adversely affected.  

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, and while we cannot predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes may adversely affect our operations or increase our costs.  

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings, including government inquiries and investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. We cannot predict the outcomes of these proceedings and other contingencies, including environmental remediation and other proceedings commenced by government authorities, with certainty. The outcome of some of these proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our operations or could require us to pay substantial amounts of money. Additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters.  

Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local regulations.  

Changes in the federal, state or local minimum wage or living wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace regulations could increase our costs of doing business. In addition, changes in federal, state or local regulations governing the sale of some of our products or tax regulations could increase our costs of doing business.  

     Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 

Not applicable.  

9 

     Item 2. Properties.