Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Inventory transactions denominated in the Euro, British pound sterling, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, and Indonesian rupiah were the primary transactions that caused foreign currency transaction exposure for Mattel during 2013, 2012, and 2011. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to market risk by monitoring its foreign currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. For those intercompany receivables and payables that are not hedged, the transaction gains or losses are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the exchange rate changes as part of operating income or other non-operating income/expense, net based on the nature of the underlying transaction. Transaction gains or losses on hedged intercompany inventory transactions are recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the inventory is sold to customers. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.  

Mattel’s financial position is also impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations on translation of its net investments in subsidiaries with non-US dollar functional currencies. Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries with non-US dollar functional currencies are translated into US dollars at fiscal year-end exchange rates. Income, expense, and cash flow items are translated at weighted average exchange rates prevailing during the fiscal year. The resulting currency translation adjustments are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss within stockholders’ equity. Mattel’s primary currency translation exposures during 2013 were related to its net investments in entities having functional currencies denominated in the Euro, Brazilian real, Australian dollar, and Indonesian rupiah.  

There are numerous factors impacting the amount by which Mattel’s financial results are affected by foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses resulting from changes in currency exchange rates, including, but not limited to, the level of foreign currency forward exchange contracts in place at a given time and the volume of foreign currency-denominated transactions in a given period. However, assuming that such factors were held constant, Mattel estimates that a 1 percent change in the US dollar Trade-Weighted Index would impact Mattel’s net sales by approximately 0.5% and its full year earnings per share by approximately $0.01 to $0.02.  

Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts that were used to hedge firm foreign currency commitments as of December 31, 2013 are shown in the following table. All contracts are against the US dollar and are maintained by reporting units with a US dollar functional currency, with the exception of the Indonesian rupiah contracts, which are maintained by entities with a rupiah functional currency.  

52  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * The weighted average contract rate for these contracts is quoted in US dollar per local currency.   

For the purchase of foreign currencies, fair value reflects the amount, based on dealer quotes, that Mattel would pay at maturity for contracts involving the same notional amounts, currencies, and maturity dates, if they had been entered into as of December 31, 2013. For the sale of foreign currencies, fair value reflects the amount, based on dealer quotes, that Mattel would receive at maturity for contracts involving the same notional amounts, currencies, and maturity dates, if they had been entered into as of December 31, 2013. The differences between the market forward amounts and the contract amounts are expected to be fully offset by currency transaction gains and losses on the underlying hedged transactions.  

In addition to the contracts involving the US dollar detailed in the above table, Mattel also had contracts to sell British pound sterling for the purchase of Euro. As of December 31, 2013, these contracts had a contract amount of $43.3 million and a fair value of $(0.7) million.  

Had Mattel not entered into hedges to limit the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on its results of operations and cash flows, its income before income taxes would have decreased by approximately $9 million in 2013, decreased by approximately $35 million in 2012, and increased by approximately $5 million in 2011.  

Venezuelan Operations  

Since January 1, 2010, Mattel has accounted for Venezuela as a highly inflationary economy as the three-year cumulative inflation rate for Venezuela exceeded 100%. Accordingly, Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary uses the US dollar as its functional currency, and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuerte generate income or expense for changes in value associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations against the US dollar. From January 2010 through January 2013, Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary used the Sistema de Transacciones con Titulos en Moneda Extranjera (“SITME”) rate, which was controlled by  

53  

Table of Contents 

 the Central Bank of Venezuela, to remeasure monetary assets and liabilities denominated in Venezuelan bolivar fuerte. The SITME rate was quoted at 5.30 Venezuelan bolivares fuerte per US dollar at December 31, 2012.  

During February 2013, the Central Bank of Venezuela revised its official exchange rate to 6.30 Venezuelan bolivares fuerte per US dollar and eliminated the SITME rate. Since February 2013, Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary has used the official exchange rate as its remeasurement rate. The change in the exchange rate resulted in an unrealized foreign currency exchange loss of approximately $5 million, which was primarily recognized within other non-operating (income) expense, net in the consolidated statements of operations.  

During March 2013, the Venezuelan government announced a complementary currency exchange system, the Sistema Complementario de Administracion de Divisas (“SICAD”). Participation in the SICAD is controlled by the Venezuelan government. The SICAD is intended to function as an auction system, allowing entities in specific sectors to bid for US dollars to be used for specified import transactions. Currently, it is unclear as to whether companies are able to remit dividends using the SICAD. During December 2013, the government regulation that created the SICAD was amended to expand its use and to require publication of the average exchange rate implied by transactions settled in SICAD auctions. During the weeks of December 23 and December 31, 2013, the SICAD rate posted on the website of the Central Bank of Venezuela was 11.3 Venezuelan bolivares fuerte per US dollar.  

Mattel has not accessed US dollars in Venezuela through the SICAD and does not expect to be able to access the SICAD rate in the foreseeable future. Mattel is currently monitoring and assessing the currency exchange rates and restrictions associated with the SICAD. Based on a number of factors, including the restrictions placed on eligible participants, the amount of US dollars available to purchase through the auction process, and the ineligibility of past import transactions to be settled through the SICAD, Mattel does not currently believe it is appropriate to use the SICAD rate as its remeasurement rate. If Mattel is able to utilize the SICAD to regularly access US dollars for its operations in future periods, the SICAD rate may be used as its remeasurement rate.  

Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary represented less than 0.1% of Mattel’s consolidated net sales in 2013 and had approximately $22 million of net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivares fuerte as of December 31, 2013. For every $10 million of net monetary assets denominated in Venezuelan bolivares fuerte, a 10% increase/(decrease) in the foreign currency exchange rate would decrease/(increase) Mattel’s pre-tax income by approximately $1 million. Venezuela currency matters, along with economic and political instability, continue to impact the operating results of Mattel’s Venezuelan subsidiary. If the Venezuelan bolivar fuerte significantly devalues in the future, or if the economic or political conditions significantly worsen, Mattel may consider ceasing operations of its Venezuelan subsidiary, which could result in a pre-tax charge to its consolidated statement of operations of up to $95 million.  

Argentine Operations  

In January 2014, the Central Bank of Argentina modified its currency exchange controls, resulting in the devaluation of the Argentine peso. The official exchange rate was quoted at 6.52 Argentine pesos per US dollar at December 31, 2013. As of January 31, 2014, the official exchange rate was quoted at 8.00 Argentine pesos per US dollar. Mattel’s Argentine subsidiary represented less than 0.2% of Mattel’s consolidated net sales in 2013. The devaluation of the Argentine peso did not impact Mattel’s 2013 operating results since the devaluation occurred subsequent to year-end. The devaluation is expected to have an immaterial impact on Mattel’s 2014 operating results.  

54  

Table of Contents 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.