PART I 

     Item 1. Business. 

 CBS Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires, the "Company" or "CBS Corp.") is a mass media company with operations in the following segments:    

•ENTERTAINMENT: The Entertainment segment is composed of the  CBS® Television Network; CBS Television Studios; CBS Studios International; CBS Television Distribution; CBS Films®; and CBS Interactive.   

•CABLE NETWORKS: The Cable Networks segment is composed of Showtime® Networks, the Company's premium subscription television program services; and CBS College Sports Network®, the Company's cable network devoted to college athletics.   

•PUBLISHING: The Publishing segment is composed of Simon & Schuster, which publishes and distributes consumer books under imprints such as Simon & Schuster®, Pocket Books®, Scribner® and Free Press™.   

•LOCAL BROADCASTING: The Local Broadcasting segment is composed of CBS Television Stations, the Company's 30 owned broadcast television stations; and CBS Radio®, through which the Company owns and operates 130 radio stations in 29 United States ("U.S.") markets.   

•OUTDOOR: The Outdoor segment displays advertising on media, including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in-car, station platforms and terminals), mall kiosks, retail stores and stadium signage principally through CBS Outdoor®.  

 During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company realigned its management structure to more effectively pursue its long-term strategy of investing in content businesses and capitalizing on its strong local presence. As a result, the Company realigned its operating segments as described above. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to this presentation.  

 For the year ended December 31, 2009, contributions to the Company's consolidated revenues from its segments were as follows: Entertainment 54%, Cable Networks 10%, Publishing 6%, Local Broadcasting 18% and Outdoor 13%. The Company generated approximately 14% of its total revenues from international regions in 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 61% and 17% of total international revenues of approximately $1.86 billion were generated in Europe and Canada, respectively.  

 In March 2009, CBS Radio completed the sale of three of its radio stations in Denver to Wilks Broadcasting for $19.5 million. In April 2009, CBS Radio completed a transaction with Clear Channel Communications, Inc. to swap five of CBS Radio's mid-size market radio stations in Baltimore, Portland, Seattle and Sacramento for Clear Channel's two radio stations in Houston. In September 2009, the Company completed the sale of four of its radio stations in Portland, Oregon to Alpha Broadcasting for $40.0 million. On June 30, 2008, the Company completed the acquisition of CNET Networks, Inc. ("CNET") common stock for $11.50 per share, for a total of $1.8 billion. CNET has been included in the Company's results from the date of acquisition. In April 2008, the Company acquired International Outdoor Advertising Group, the leading out-of-home advertising company in South America, for $110.8 million. In January 2008, the Company completed the sale of seven of its owned television stations to Cerberus Capital Management, L.P. for $185.0 million. In November 2007, the Company completed the last of its sales of 39 radio stations in 10 of its smaller markets for $668.4 million in the aggregate.  

 As technologies for delivering content and services evolve, and as evidenced by its acquisition of CNET, the Company continues to pursue and expand upon opportunities to distribute content to consumers through various platforms, including the Internet, mobile devices and video-on-demand. The Company is focused on utilizing interactive features to deepen and broaden its relationship with audiences.  

I-1 

The Company has entered into various arrangements to extend the reach of its news, entertainment and other program content across a number of products and platforms with leading Internet, cable and mobile wireless companies, among others.  

 The Company competes with many different entities and media in various markets worldwide. In addition to competition in each of its businesses, the Company competes for opportunities in the entertainment business with other diversified international entertainment companies such as The Walt Disney Company, NBC Universal, Inc., News Corporation, Time Warner Inc., CC Media Holdings, Inc. and Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc.  

 As of December 31, 2009, National Amusements, Inc. ("NAI"), a closely held corporation that owns and operates approximately 1,030 movie screens in the U.S., the United Kingdom ("U.K.") and South America and manages 21 movie screens in the U.S. and the U.K., beneficially owned Class A Common Stock of the Company representing approximately 79% of the voting power of all classes of the Company's Common Stock, and approximately 6% of the Company's Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock on a combined basis. Owners of the Company's Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. The Company's Class B Common Stock does not have voting rights. NAI is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder of the Company.  

 The Company was organized in Delaware in 1986. The Company's principal offices are located at 51 W. 52nd Street, New York, New York 10019. Its telephone number is (212) 975-4321 and its Web site address is www.cbscorporation.com.  

 CBS CORP. BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

 Entertainment (54%, 49% and 47% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively)  

 The Entertainment segment consists of the CBS Television Network; CBS Television Studios, CBS Studios International and CBS Television Distribution, the Company's television production and syndication operations; CBS Films, the Company's producer and distributor of theatrical motion pictures; and CBS Interactive, the Company's online content networks for information and entertainment.  

 Television Network. The CBS Television Network through CBS Entertainment™, CBS News® and CBS Sports® distributes a comprehensive schedule of news and public affairs broadcasts, sports and entertainment programming to more than 200 domestic affiliates reaching throughout the U.S., including 16 of the Company's owned and operated television stations, and to affiliated stations in certain U.S. territories. The CBS Television Network primarily derives revenues from the sales of advertising time for its network broadcasts.  

 CBS Entertainment is responsible for acquiring or developing and scheduling the entertainment programming presented on the CBS Television Network, which includes primetime comedy and drama series, reality-based programming, specials, children's programs, daytime dramas, game shows and late-night programs. CBS News operates a worldwide news organization, providing the CBS Television Network and the CBS Radio Network™ with regularly scheduled news and public affairs broadcasts, including 60 Minutes®, CBS Evening News with Katie Couric and The Early Show, as well as special reports. CBS News Productions, the off-network production company created by CBS News, produces programming for domestic and international outlets, including the CBS Television Network, cable television, home video, audio-book and in-flight markets, as well as schools and libraries. CBS News also provides CBS Newspath®, a television news syndication service that offers daily news coverage, sports highlights and news features to the CBS Television Network affiliates and other subscribers worldwide. CBS Sports broadcasts include The NFL Today, certain NCAA championships, including the Final Four,  

I-2 

golf, including the Masters Tournament and the PGA Championship, the U.S. Open Tennis Championships, regular-season college football and basketball line-ups on network television, in addition to the NFL's American Football Conference regular season schedule, the Postseason Divisional Playoff games and the AFC championship game. CBS Sports has rights extensions with the NFL to broadcast the AFC through the 2013 season including the broadcast of the 2010 Super Bowl and the 2013 Super Bowl. CBS Home Entertainment licenses home video rights and CBS Consumer Products licenses merchandising rights.  

 The CW, a broadcast network and the Company's 50/50 joint venture with Warner Bros. Entertainment, was launched in Fall 2006. The CW's programming includes Gossip Girl, 90210, The Vampire Diaries and America's Next Top Model. Nine of the Company's owned television stations are affiliates of The CW.  

 In late September 2007, Nielsen Media Research introduced a television measurement system based on commercial viewership rather than program viewership. The new standard allows for the inclusion of both live and delayed viewing of commercials up to three days after live broadcasts and has become the industry standard for the buying and selling of television commercial time.  

 Television Production and Syndication. The Company, through CBS Television Studios, CBS Studios International and CBS Television Distribution, produces, acquires and/or distributes programming worldwide, including series, specials, news and public affairs. Such programming is produced primarily for broadcast on network television, exhibition on basic cable and premium subscription services or distribution via first-run syndication. First-run syndication is programming exhibited on television stations without prior exhibition on a network or cable service. The Company also distributes off-network syndicated programming, which is programming exhibited on television stations or cable networks following its exhibition on a network, basic cable network or premium subscription service.  

 Programming that was produced or co-produced by the Company's production group and is broadcast on network television includes, among others, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation (CBS), NCIS: Los Angeles (CBS), The Good Wife (CBS) and 90210 (The CW). Generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for broadcast on the network in the U.S. during a license period. Remaining distribution rights, including foreign and/or off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by the Company or, in the case of co-productions, distribution rights are shared with the co-producer for U.S. or foreign markets. The network license fee for a series episode is normally lower than the costs of producing the episode; however, the Company's objective is to recoup its costs and earn a profit through domestic syndication of episodes after their network runs and/or by licensing international exhibitions of the episodes. International sales are generally made within one year of U.S. network runs. Generally, a series must have a network run of at least three or four years to be successfully sold in domestic syndication. In off-network syndication, the Company distributes series such as CSI:, CSI: Miami, CSI: NY, Everybody Hates Chris, Criminal Minds and Survivor as well as a library of older television programs. The Company also produces and/or distributes first-run syndicated series such as Jeopardy!, Entertainment Tonight, The Oprah Winfrey Show, Dr. Phil,  Rachael Ray and Judge Judy. The Company also distributes syndicated programming internationally.  

 License fees for completed television programming in syndication and on cable are recorded as revenues in the period that the products are available for exhibition, which, among other reasons, may cause substantial fluctuation in the Entertainment segment's operating results. Unrecognized revenues attributable to such license agreements were approximately $387.0 million and $600.1 million at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.  

 In November 2009, the Company entered into a joint venture with Chellozone (UK) Limited, a division of Liberty Global, Inc., to own and operate six television channels in the U.K. and Ireland, including CBS Action™, CBS Drama™ and CBS Reality™. In addition, the Company owns an approximately 33% equity interest in two pay television channels in Australia called  TV1 and Sci Fi.  

I-3 

 CBS Films. CBS Films was created in September 2007 to develop and produce a limited slate of theatrical motion pictures across all genres. The production cost of each motion picture is intended to be up to $50 million in addition to advertising and marketing costs for each picture at a level consistent with industry custom. CBS Films' current plan is to produce and release four to six motion pictures per year. All motion pictures produced or acquired by CBS Films are intended for a wide, commercial theatrical release, similar to motion pictures typically produced and released by major studios.  

 CBS Films' U.S. theatrical releases in 2010 include: Extraordinary Measures, an adult drama, released in January 2010;  The Back-up Plan, a romantic comedy, expected to be released in Spring 2010; Beastly, a teen romantic drama, expected to be released in Summer 2010; and Faster, an action drama, which is a co-production by CBS Films and an affiliate of Sony Pictures Entertainment, expected to be released in Fall 2010.  

 In general, motion pictures produced or acquired by CBS Films are exhibited theatrically in the U.S. and internationally, followed by exploitation via home entertainment (including DVD and electronic sell-through), video-on-demand, pay-per-view, pay television, free television and basic cable, digital media outlets and, in some cases, other exhibitors such as airlines and hotels. CBS Films will exploit its motion pictures (including certain ancillary rights, such as licensing and merchandising) and generate revenues in all media in the relevant release windows worldwide either directly, through affiliated CBS entities or via multi-year third party distribution agreements.  

 CBS Interactive. CBS Interactive operates one of the leading online content networks for information and entertainment. In June 2008, the Company completed its acquisition of CNET Networks, Inc., which complements and expands the Company's interactive footprint. CBS Interactive was ranked among the top Internet properties in the world according to comScore Media Metrix, December 2009. CBS Interactive's leading brands, including CNET,  CBS.com, CBSSports.com, GameSpot,  TV.com and BNET, among others, serve targeted audiences with text, video, audio, and mobile content spanning technology, entertainment, sports, news, business, gaming and music categories. In addition to its U.S.-based business, CBS Interactive operates in Asia and Europe. CBS Interactive's worldwide brands reached approximately 226.0 million unique monthly visitors during December 2009.  

 CBS Interactive generates revenue principally from the sale of advertising and sponsorships, in addition to fees derived from search and commerce partners, licensing fees, subscriptions, e-commerce activities, and other paid services. Advertising spending on the Internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly with economic conditions. In addition, online marketing spending follows seasonal consumer behavior throughout the calendar year to reflect trends during the calendar year.  

 CNET.com is one of the leading Web sites for technology and consumer electronics information.  GameSpot is one of the leading gaming information Web sites according to comScore Media Metrix, December 2009.  GameSpot's content includes video game reviews and previews, news, Webcasts, videos, online tournaments and game downloads.  CBSSports.com provides Internet sports content, fantasy sports, community and e-commerce features.  CBSSports.com owns and operates CBSCollegeSports.com and  MaxPreps.com and hosts the NCAA March Madness on demand video player that provides live streaming video of the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Championship. TV.com is a leading destination for entertainment and community around television where visitors can watch videos and discuss and obtain information about television shows across all networks. BNET is a top 10 business media site, offering award-winning original content, as well as one of the largest business libraries available on the Internet. Last.fm is a community-based, music discovery site, which reached approximately 26.4 million unique monthly visitors worldwide during December 2009 according to comScore Media Metrix, December 2009. CBS Interactive also operates  CBS.com, the online destination for CBS Television Network programming. Through the CBS Audience Network™, the Company delivers content from its Web sites and television, radio and affiliated stations, through new and existing advertiser-supported deals. The growing slate of  

I-4 

CBS entertainment, news and sports content available includes full episodes, clips and highlights based on CBS and Showtime Networks programming as well as original made-for-the-Web content.   

 Entertainment Competition.   

 Television Network. The television broadcast environment is highly competitive. The principal methods of competition in broadcast television are the development and acquisition of popular programming and the development of audience interest through programming and promotion, in order to sell advertising at profitable rates. Broadcast networks like CBS compete for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other broadcast networks such as ABC, FOX, NBC, The CW and MyNetworkTV, independent television stations, cable program services as well as other media, including DVDs, print and the Internet. In addition, the CBS Television Network competes with the other broadcast networks to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the country, which are necessary to ensure the effective distribution of network programming to a nationwide audience. According to Nielsen Media Research, for the broadcast television primetime daypart for the period September 21, 2009 to February 7, 2010, the CBS Television Network secured the #1 position for total viewers and for key adult viewers ages 25-54 and the #2 position for key adult viewers ages 18-49.  

 Television Production and Syndication. As a producer and distributor of programming, the Company competes with studios, television production groups, and independent producers and syndicators such as Disney, Sony, NBC Universal, Warner Bros. and Fox to produce and sell programming both domestically and overseas. The Company also competes to obtain creative talent and story properties which are essential to the success of all of the Company's entertainment businesses.  

 CBS Films. Motion picture production and distribution is a highly competitive business. During the life cycle of the development and production of a motion picture project, CBS Films must compete for the rights to compelling underlying source material and talent such as writers, producers, directors, on screen performers and other creative personnel. Once a motion picture is completed, CBS Films must compete with numerous other motion pictures produced by various studios and independent producers including Paramount Pictures Corporation, Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, Warner Bros. Entertainment, Inc., Lionsgate Entertainment, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc., The Weinstein Company, Lakeshore Entertainment Group LLC and Morgan Creek Productions, among others, for audience acceptance as well as limited exhibition outlets across all of the relevant release windows. In addition, the ultimate consumer has many options for entertainment other than motion pictures including video games, sports, travel, outdoor recreation, the Internet, and other cultural and computer-related activities.  

 CBS Interactive. CBS Interactive competes with a variety of online properties for users, advertisers, and partners, including the following: general purpose portals such as AOL, MSN and Yahoo!, especially as these properties expand their content offerings; search engines such as Google, Yahoo! and MSN; online comparison shopping and retail properties, including Shopping.com, Amazon.com and eBay; vertical content sites in the categories that CBS Interactive's brands serve, such as technology, gaming, music, news, business, food, and lifestyle focused Web sites; and platforms such as blogs, podcasts and video properties. CBS Interactive also competes for users and advertisers with diversified media companies that provide both online and offline content, including magazines, cable television, network television, radio and newspapers.  

 Cable Networks (10%, 9% and 8% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively)  

 The Cable Networks segment is composed of Showtime Networks, the Company's premium subscription television program services; and  CBS College Sports Network, the Company's cable network devoted to college athletics.  

I-5 

 Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks owns and operates three commercial-free, premium subscription television program services in the U.S.: Showtime, offering recently released theatrical feature films, original series, documentaries, boxing, mixed martial arts and other sports-related programming, and special events; The Movie Channel®, offering recently released theatrical feature films and related programming; and  Flix®, offering theatrical feature films primarily from the last several decades, as well as selected other titles. At December 31, 2009, Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix, in the aggregate, had approximately 61.3 million subscriptions in the U.S., certain U.S. territories and Bermuda.  

 Showtime Networks also owns and operates multiplexed channels of Showtime and The Movie Channel in the U.S. which offer additional and varied programming choices. In addition, Showtime Networks transmits high definition television feeds of  Showtime, The Movie Channel and many of their multiplexed channels, and also makes versions of Showtime, The Movie Channel and Flix available "on demand," enabling subscribers to watch selected individual programs at their convenience (in both standard and high definition in the case of Showtime and The Movie Channel, and standard definition in the case of Flix). Showtime Networks also provides special events to licensees on a pay-per-view basis through  Showtime PPV®. Showtime Networks also operates the Web site SHO.com which promotes Showtime, The Movie Channel and  Flix programming, and provides information and entertainment and other services.  

 Showtime Networks derives revenue principally from the license of its program services to cable television operators, direct broadcast satellite ("DBS") operators, telephone companies and other distributors. The costs of acquiring premium television rights to programming and producing original series are the principal expenses of Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks enters into commitments to acquire rights, with an emphasis on acquiring exclusive rights for Showtime and The Movie Channel, from major or independent motion picture producers and other distributors typically covering the U.S. and Bermuda for varying durations. For example, in addition to a motion picture output agreement with CBS Films, Showtime Networks has entered into motion picture output agreements with The Weinstein Company and Summit Entertainment for the exclusive U.S. premium subscription television rights for certain exhibition windows relating to feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S through December 2015 and December 2012, respectively. In addition to these exclusive output agreements, Showtime Networks has rights to exhibit motion pictures licensed under its exclusive output agreement with Paramount Pictures for feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S. through December 2007, and under its exclusive output agreements with each of MGM and Lionsgate for feature films initially theatrically released in the U.S. through December 2008. Showtime Networks also arranges for the development, production and acquisition of original programs, series and documentaries. Showtime Networks' original series include  Dexter, Californication, The Tudors, Weeds, United States of Tara and Nurse Jackie, among others. Showtime Networks has entered into and may from time to time enter into co-financing, co-production and/or distribution arrangements with other parties to reduce the net cost to Showtime Networks for its original programming. In addition, Showtime Networks derives distribution revenue from the rights it retains in certain of its original programming. For example, Showtime Networks and its corporate affiliate(s) have entered into licenses with television networks in various foreign territories for exhibition of certain original series, as well as electronic sell-through arrangements with several Internet distributors, including iTunes and Amazon, among others, for certain Showtime programming. Showtime Networks derives a substantial amount of its revenues from three large distributors.  

 Showtime Networks also owns 90% of and manages Smithsonian Networks, a venture with Smithsonian Institution, which operates Smithsonian Channel™, a basic cable service in the U.S., featuring programs of a cultural, historical, scientific and educational nature. Smithsonian Networks has launched both standard and high definition versions of Smithsonian Channel, as well as of its companion on demand version.  

I-6 

 CBS College Sports Network. CBS College Sports Network is a 24-hour cable program service dedicated to college sports. The network features events from approximately 25 men's and women's college sports and provides coverage of over 250 live events each season in addition to live studio shows and original programming. CBS College Sports Network had approximately 34.8 million subscribers as of December 31, 2009. The network derives its revenues from subscription fees and the sale of advertising time on its cable program service. CBS College Sports Network and Comcast Corporation each owns a 50% interest in the mtn: MountainWest Sports Network, which exhibits Mountain West Conference athletics and is available to U.S. cable and satellite providers.   

 Cable Networks Competition.   

 Showtime Networks. Showtime Networks primarily competes with other providers of premium subscription television program services in the U.S.: Home Box Office, Inc. and Starz Entertainment, LLC. Competition among premium subscription television program services in the U.S. is dependent on: (i) the production, acquisition and packaging of original series and other original programming and the acquisition and packaging of an adequate number of recently released theatrical motion pictures; and (ii) the offering of prices, marketing and advertising support and other incentives to cable operators, DBS operators, telephone companies and other distributors for carriage so as to favorably position and package Showtime Networks' premium subscription television program services to subscribers. Home Box Office, Inc. is the dominant company in the U.S. premium subscription television category, offering two premium subscription television program services, HBO and Cinemax. Showtime Networks competes with Home Box Office, Inc. and has a significantly smaller share of the premium subscription television category. Starz Entertainment, LLC owns Starz!, another premium subscription television program service, which primarily features recently released theatrical motion pictures and competes with Showtime Networks' and Home Box Office, Inc.'s premium program services. Showtime Networks also competes for programming, distribution and/or audiences with broadcast television, basic cable program services and other media, including DVDs, portable devices and the Internet.  

 The terms and favorable renewal of agreements with distributors for the distribution of the Company's subscription television program services are important to the Company. Consolidation among multichannel video programming distributors and other marketplace factors make it more difficult to reach favorable terms and could have an adverse effect on revenues. In addition, new entrants providing programming or other services for cable networks, cable operators and other platforms, including the Internet, could be competitive with and adversely affect the Company's media businesses, including Showtime Networks' subscription television business.  

 CBS College Sports Network. CBS College Sports Network's cable programming service principally competes with other sports-oriented cable programming services for cable and satellite distribution and related revenue, for viewership and for advertising revenue. Consolidation among cable operators has made it more difficult for newer channels to secure broad distribution. In addition, the largest cable providers have created sports tiers for newer sports programming services which have not, in many cases, achieved significant subscriber penetration or acceptance. CBS College Sports Network's television service also competes with other sports programming services, such as ESPNU, in acquiring the television and broadband rights to sporting events, resulting in increased rights fees and increased production expenses.  

 Publishing (6% of the Company's consolidated revenues in each of 2009, 2008 and 2007)  

 The Publishing segment consists of Simon & Schuster, which publishes and distributes consumer books in the U.S. and internationally.  

 Simon & Schuster publishes and distributes adult and children's consumer books in printed, audio and digital formats in the U.S. and internationally. Digital formats include audio downloads for the Apple iPod and MP3 players, electronic books for increasingly popular devices such as Amazon's Kindle and the Sony Reader Digital Book, stand-alone applications for the Apple iPod and iPhone, and new hybrid text and  

I-7 

video combinations. Simon & Schuster's major adult imprints include Simon & Schuster, Pocket Books, Scribner, Atria Books®, Gallery Books™, and Free Press. Simon & Schuster's major children's imprints include Simon Spotlight®, Aladdin Paperbacks® and  Simon & Schuster Books For Young Readers™. Simon & Schuster also develops special imprints and publishes titles based on the CBS Television Network's and Showtime Networks' products as well as that of third parties and distributes products for other publishers. Simon & Schuster distributes its products directly and through third parties. Simon & Schuster also delivers content and promotes its products on general Internet sites as well as those linked to individual titles; its created assets include online videos showcasing Simon & Schuster authors and new releases on YouTube, Bookvideos.tv, SimonandSchuster.com and other sites. International publishing includes the international distribution of English-language titles through Simon & Schuster UK, Simon & Schuster Canada and Simon & Schuster Australia and other distributors, as well as the publication of local titles by Simon & Schuster UK.  

 In 2009, Simon & Schuster published 164 titles that were New York Times bestsellers, including 25 New York Times #1 bestsellers. Best-selling titles in 2009 include  Arguing with Idiots by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe, Under the Dome by Stephen King, and  Liberty and Tyranny by Mark Levin. Bestselling children's titles from Simon & Schuster include City of Glass by Cassandra Clare, Night World by L.J. Smith, and The Christmas Sweater by Glenn Beck. Simon & Schuster Digital™, through SimonandSchuster.com, publishes original content, builds reader communities and promotes and sells Simon & Schuster's books over the Internet.  

 The consumer publishing marketplace is subject to increased periods of demand in the summer months and during the end-of-year holiday season. Major new title releases represent a significant portion of Simon & Schuster's sales throughout the year. Simon & Schuster's top 10 accounts drive a significant portion of its annual revenue. Consumer print books are generally sold on a fully returnable basis, resulting in the return of unsold books. In the domestic and international markets, the Company is subject to global trends and local economic conditions. Also, although electronic books represented less than 5% of the Company's book sales in 2009, they appear to be a growing factor in the market.  

 Publishing Competition. The consumer publishing business is highly competitive and has been affected over the years by consolidation trends. Mass merchandisers and on-line retailers are significant factors in the industry contributing to the general trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. There have also been a number of mergers completed in the distribution channel. The Company must compete with other larger publishers such as Random House, Penguin Group and Harper Collins for the rights to works by authors. Competition is particularly strong for well-known authors and public personalities. In addition, technological changes have made it increasingly possible for authors to self-publish and have led to the development of new digital distribution models in which the Company's books must compete with the availability of both a larger volume of books as well as non-book content. The Company must also contend with price pressure on new releases, for both printed and electronic formats, as a result of price competition among electronic book retailers.  

 Local Broadcasting (18%, 21% and 24% of the Company's consolidated revenues in each of 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively)  

 The Local Broadcasting segment consists of CBS Television Stations, the Company's 30 owned broadcast television stations, and CBS Radio, through which the Company owns and operates 130 radio stations in 29 U.S. markets. The Company's various content and media businesses, which operate in local markets, enhance the Company's ability to provide comprehensive and strategic services in those markets.  

 CBS Television Stations. The Company owns 30 broadcast television stations through its CBS Television Stations group, all of which operate under licenses granted by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the "Communications Act"). The licenses are renewable every eight years. The Company's television stations are located in the 8 largest, and 15 of the top 20, television markets in the U.S. The Company owns multiple television stations  

I-8 

within the same designated market area ("DMA") in 9 major markets. These multiple station markets are: Los Angeles (market #2), Philadelphia (market #4), Dallas-Fort Worth (market #5), San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose (market #6), Boston (market #7), Detroit (market #11), Miami-Ft. Lauderdale (market #17), Sacramento-Stockton-Modesto (market #20), and Pittsburgh (market #23). This group of television stations enables the Company to reach a wide audience within and across geographically diverse markets in the U.S. The stations produce news and broadcast public affairs, sports and other programming to serve their local markets and offer CBS, The CW or MyNetworkTV programming and syndicated programming. The CBS Television Stations group principally derives its revenues from the sale of advertising time on its television stations. Substantially all of the Company's television stations operate Web sites, which promote the stations' programming, and provide news, information and entertainment, as well as other services. These Web sites principally derive revenues from the sale of advertising.  

 Every three years, each television station must elect, with respect to its retransmission by DBS and cable television operators within its DMA, either "must carry" status, pursuant to which the cable system's carriage of the station is mandatory, or "retransmission consent," pursuant to which the station gives up its right to mandatory carriage and secures instead the right to negotiate consideration in return for consenting to carriage. The Company has elected the retransmission consent option in substantially all cases for the period beginning January 1, 2009, and, since 2006, has implemented a systematic process of seeking monetary consideration for its retransmission consent.  

 The Company's owned and operated television stations reach approximately 38% of all U.S. television households. The FCC's ownership rules limit the Company's national audience reach to 39% of all U.S. television households. Using the FCC's measurement methodology in which a UHF television station is deemed to reach only 50% of the television households in its market, the Company is below the 39% limit. (See "CBS Corp. Business Segments—Regulation—Broadcasting—Ownership Regulation").  

 Television Stations 

 The table below sets forth the broadcast television stations owned by the Company as of February 20, 2010.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

I-9 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

I-10 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]    

(1)Metropolitan Area Served is Nielsen Media Research's DMA. 

(2)Market Rankings based on Nielsen Media Research Local Market Universe Estimate, September 2009. 

(3)KCCO-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV. 

(4)KCCW-TV is operated as a satellite station of WCCO-TV. 

(5)WBXI-CA is a Class A low power television station. Class A low power television stations do not implicate the FCC's ownership rules.  

 CBS Radio. The Company's radio broadcasting business operates through CBS Radio, one of the largest operators of radio stations in the U.S. CBS Radio owns and operates 130 radio stations serving 29 U.S. markets as of February 20, 2010. Virtually all of the Company's owned and operated radio stations are located in the 50 largest U.S. radio markets and approximately 75% in the 25 largest U.S. radio markets. The Company's strategy generally is to operate radio stations in the largest markets and take advantage of the Company's ability to sell advertising across multiple markets and formats. In March 2009, CBS Radio completed the sale of three of its radio stations in Denver for $19.5 million. In April 2009, CBS Radio completed the exchange of five of its mid-size market radio stations in Baltimore, Portland, Sacramento and Seattle for two radio stations in Houston (market #6). In September 2009, the Company completed the sale of four of its radio stations in Portland for $40.0 million. The Company believes that it is favorably impacted by offering radio, television and outdoor advertising platforms in large markets. The "Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays" table below includes information with respect to the Company's radio stations in the top 25 U.S. radio markets.  

 CBS Radio's geographically dispersed stations serve diverse target demographics through a broad range of formats such as rock, classic hits/oldies, all-news, talk, Spanish language, adult contemporary, top 40/contemporary hit radio, urban, sports and country, and CBS Radio has established leading franchises in news, sports and personality programming. This diversity provides advertisers with the convenience of selecting stations to reach a targeted demographic or of selecting groups of stations to reach broad groups of consumers within and across markets and also reduces the Company's dependence on any single station, local economy, format or advertiser. At the same time, CBS Radio maintains substantial diversity in each market where its stations operate so that its stations can appeal to several demographic groups. CBS Radio's general programming strategies include employing popular on-air talent, some of whose broadcasts may be syndicated by CBS Radio using the services of a third party syndicator, broadcasting programming syndicated to it by others, acquiring the rights to broadcast sports play-by-play and producing and acquiring news content for its radio stations. The overall mix of each radio station's programming lineup is designed to fit the station's specific format and serve its local community. The Company also has agreements with Westwood One, Inc. involving compensation to the Company, the provision of radio programming to CBS Radio and the distribution by Westwood One of CBS Radio News programming  

 Arbitron's Portable People Meter™ ("PPM"), an electronic audience measurement technology, has been adopted in 23 of the 29 markets in which CBS Radio owns and operates radio stations. The Company continues to monitor the effects of PPM on the ratings of the Company's radio stations and advertising sales and has not been adversely affected by the transition to PPM.  

I-11 

 The majority of CBS Radio's revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. The major categories of radio advertisers include: automotive, retail, healthcare, telecommunications, fast food, beverage, movies and entertainment. CBS Radio is able to use the reach, diversity and branding of its radio stations to create unique division-wide marketing and promotional initiatives for major national advertisers of products and services. The success and reputation of CBS Radio and its stations allow the Company to attract the participation of major artists in these national campaigns. Advertising expenditures by local advertisers fluctuate, which has an effect on CBS Radio's revenues.  

 CBS Radio continues to extend its station brands online through efforts that include streaming, on-demand audio and video, podcasting, and widgets. CBS Radio programs 245 channels of audio content available online including CBS Radio stations top brands such as 1010 WINS and WFAN(AM), both in New York, and KROQ-FM in Los Angeles, and custom channels such as The Sky (Psychic Radio) and K-Rock (Alternative Rock). Additionally, CBS Radio station programming is streamed through AOL and Yahoo Internet services. CBS Radio is one of the most listened to online radio providers according to Ando Media's monthly Top 20 Ranker for December 2009.   

 Local Broadcasting Competition.   

 CBS Television Stations. Television stations compete for programming, on-air talent, audiences and advertising revenues with other stations and cable networks in their respective coverage areas and, in some cases, with respect to programming, with other station groups, and, in the case of advertising revenues, with other local and national media. The owned and operated television stations' competitive position is largely influenced by the quality of the syndicated programs and local news programs in time periods not programmed by the network; the strength of the CBS Television Network programming and, in particular, the viewership of the CBS Television Network in the time period immediately prior to the late evening news; and in some cases, by the quality of the broadcast signal.  

 CBS Radio. The Company's radio stations directly compete within their respective markets for audience, advertising revenues and programming with other radio stations, including those owned by other group owners such as Clear Channel Communications, Citadel Broadcasting, Cumulus Media, Inc., Emmis Communications, Entercom Communications Corporation and Radio One. The Company's radio stations, including its Internet and streaming activities, also compete with other media, such as broadcast, cable and DBS television, other radio stations, newspapers, magazines, direct mail, the Internet, including Internet radio services such as Pandora, Live 365 and Rhapsody. The radio industry is also subject to competition from Sirius XM Radio Inc., which provides digital audio services to subscribers.  

 The Company's radio stations face increasing competition from newer technologies, including audio programming delivered via the Internet, which create new ways for individuals to listen to music and other content of their choosing while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements. Also, an increasingly broad adoption by consumers of portable digital audio players could affect the ability of the Company's radio stations to attract listeners and advertisers.  

 The radio broadcast industry continues to implement digital broadcasts. Because there is no FCC deadline for radio stations to cease broadcasting in an analog mode, radio stations that have implemented digital broadcasting transmit both digitally and in analog. As of February 1, 2010, 105 of the Company's owned radio stations have commenced digital broadcasts. The Company believes that digital transmissions will provide listeners with improved sound quality and new programming channels and should facilitate the convergence of radio with other digital media. It is too early to predict the full effect that the implementation of digital broadcasts will have on the Company's radio businesses or on competition generally.  

 Aggregate spot advertising sales revenues for the Company's radio stations for 2009 were ranked #1 in four of the top five U.S. markets by metro area population (New York, Chicago, San Francisco (tied), and Dallas-Fort Worth), according to the 2009 Market Total Spot Performance Summary of Miller, Kaplan, Arase & Co., LLP.  

I-12 

 Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays 

 The following table sets forth information with regard to the Company's radio stations, television stations and outdoor advertising displays as of February 20, 2010 in the top 25 U.S. radio markets:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

I-13 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

I-14 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]    

(1)Radio market rank based on Fall 2009 Radio Market Ranking as provided by Arbitron Inc. Television market rank based on Nielsen Media Research Local Market Universe Estimate, September 2009. 

(2)The FCC has granted an application permitting the Company to assign KFWB-AM to a divestiture trust. Upon closing of this assignment, the Company will beneficially own but will not operate KFWB-AM. (See "CBS Business Segments—Regulation—Broadcasting—Ownership Regulation—Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule"). 

(3)Sub-market of New York City. The Company's New York City radio and television stations serve Nassau-Suffolk.  

 Outdoor (13%, 16% and 16% of the Company's consolidated revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively)  

 The Company sells, through its Outdoor businesses, advertising space on various media, including billboards, transit shelters, buses, rail systems (in-car, station platform and terminal), mall kiosks and stadium signage and in retail stores. It has outdoor advertising operations in more than 100 markets in North America, including all 50 of the largest metropolitan markets in the U.S., 19 of the 20 largest metropolitan markets in Canada and all 45 of the largest metropolitan markets in Mexico. Additionally, Outdoor has the exclusive rights to manage advertising space on approximately 90% of the total bus fleet in the U.K. and has a variety of outdoor advertising displays in the Netherlands, France, Italy, Puerto Rico, the Republic of Ireland, Spain, Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay, Chile and China. The Company operates its Outdoor businesses through CBS Outdoor in the U.S., Canada and Europe,  CBS Outernet® in the U.S. and Vendor® in Mexico. In April 2008, the Company acquired International Outdoor Advertising Group, the leading out-of-home advertising company in South America. The "Radio Stations, Television Stations and Outdoor Advertising Displays" table above includes information with regard to the Company's outdoor advertising properties in the top 25 U.S. radio markets.  

 The substantial majority of Outdoor's revenues are generated from the sale of local, regional and national advertising. Advertising rates are based on supply and demand for the particular locations, which are influenced by a particular display's exposure known as "impressions" delivered in relation to the demographics of the particular market and its location within that market. Currently, these impressions are not measured by independent third parties. The Company cannot predict the impact, if any, on the Outdoor business should impressions become measured independently. The major categories of out-of-home advertisers include: entertainment, media, automotive, beverage, financial, real estate, retail, healthcare, telecommunications, restaurants, health and beauty aids, hotels and professional services. Out-of-home media industry advertising expenditures by retailers and the entertainment industry fluctuate, which has an effect on Outdoor's revenues.  

 Outdoor generally operates in the billboard, transit, street furniture and retail store advertising markets. Outdoor primarily operates two types of billboard advertising displays, commonly referred to as "bulletins" and "posters."  

 Billboard space is generally sold for periods ranging from 4 weeks to 12 months. Billboards are generally mounted on structures owned by Outdoor located on leased real property. Lease agreements are negotiated with both public and private landowners for varying terms ranging from month-to-month to year-to-year, can be for terms of 10 years or longer and may provide for renewal options. There is no significant concentration of billboards under any one lease or subject to negotiation with any one landlord.  

I-15 

 Transit advertising includes advertising on or in transit systems, including the interiors and exteriors of buses, trains and trams and at rail stations. Transit advertising contracts are negotiated with public transit authorities and private transit operators and generally provide for payment to the transit authority of a percentage of the revenues, a fixed payment, or the greater of a percentage of the revenues or a fixed payment. Where revenues are lower than anticipated, the minimum amount required to be paid to a transit authority may exceed, or be a high percentage of, the advertising revenues received by Outdoor under that advertising contract. Due to the difficult advertising marketplace worldwide, certain transit contracts, including the London Underground contract which also has reduced revenues due to project delays, are operating at their minimum guarantee levels.  

 Street furniture displays, the most common of which are bus shelters, reach both vehicular and pedestrian audiences. Bus shelters are usually constructed, installed and maintained by Outdoor. Most of Outdoor's bus shelter contracts include revenue-sharing arrangements with a municipality or transit authority and often include minimum required payments. Street furniture contracts usually involve a competitive bidding process and contracts typically are for a term of from 10 to 20 years. Contracts are awarded on the basis of projected revenues to the municipality, including minimum payments, and Outdoor's willingness to construct public facilities, such as bus shelters, public toilets and information kiosks. In both its transit and street furniture negotiations, Outdoor seeks to reduce minimum payment obligations on new agreements and on renewal of existing agreements. There is no assurance that Outdoor will be successful in reducing its minimum payments, entering into new agreements or renewing certain existing agreements and any such agreements may provide a lesser return to the Company.  

 Newer technologies for outdoor advertising displays, such as changeable message displays and digital billboards using light-emitting diode and liquid crystal display technology, continue to evolve. The Company keeps apprised of and has adopted such new technologies as they evolve and mature. For example, Outdoor is utilizing digital technology containing moving images in the London Underground, New York City subways and in retail outlets through CBS Outernet. In July 2006, Outdoor reached an 8.5 year agreement to sell advertising on the London Underground and to perform certain construction and installation work. CBS Outernet, a leading distributor of video programming and advertising content to retail stores, enables customized messaging by region and retail environment. Generally, CBS Outernet enters into revenue-sharing arrangements with retailers based on advertising sales.  

 Outdoor's business strategy involves expanding its presence in major selected markets, to grow its revenues and cash flow by being a leading provider of out-of-home advertising services in the markets it serves, controlling costs, developing and entering into new markets and using advanced technologies to build greater awareness and promote tactical advertising. In addition, the Company purchases outdoor advertising assets within its existing markets or in contiguous markets. The Company believes that there will be continuing opportunities for implementing its acquisition and development strategies given the outdoor advertising industry's fragmentation. This is particularly true in the international markets where there are opportunities for Outdoor to increase profitability both from acquiring additional assets in or near its existing operations and from future acquisitions in new markets.  

 Outdoor Competition. The outdoor advertising industry is fragmented, consisting of several large companies involved in outdoor advertising such as Clear Channel Outdoor Holdings, Inc., JC Decaux S.A., Cemusa Inc. and Lamar Advertising Company as well as hundreds of smaller regional and local companies operating a limited number of display faces in a single or a few local markets. The Company also competes with other media, including broadcast and cable television, radio, print media, the Internet and direct mail marketers, within their respective markets. In addition, it competes with a wide variety of out-of-home media, including advertising in shopping centers, airports, movie theaters, supermarkets and taxis. Advertisers compare relative costs of available media and cost-per-thousand impressions, particularly when delivering a message to customers with distinct demographic characteristics. In competing with other media, the outdoor advertising industry relies on its relative cost efficiency and its ability to reach a broad segment in a specific market or to target a particular geographic area or population with a particular  

I-16 

demographic within that market. The Company keeps apprised of the evolution of new technologies in the industry. As new technologies such as digital billboards prove desirable to Outdoor's customers and deliver appropriate returns on investment, the Company's costs could increase.  

 The Company believes that its strong emphasis in sales and customer service and its position as a leading provider of advertising services in each of its primary markets as well as its international inventory enables it to compete effectively with the other outdoor advertising companies, as well as other media, within those markets.  

 REGULATION  

 The Company's businesses are either subject to or affected by regulations of federal, state and local governmental authorities. The rules, regulations, policies and procedures affecting these businesses are subject to change. The descriptions which follow are summaries and should be read in conjunction with the texts of the statutes, rules and regulations described herein. The descriptions do not purport to describe all present and proposed statutes, rules and regulations affecting the Company's businesses.   

 Intellectual Property and Privacy   

 Laws affecting intellectual property are of significant importance to the Company. (See "Intellectual Property" on page I-23).  

 Copyright Law and Content. In the U.S., the copyright term for authored works is the life of the author plus 70 years. For works made-for-hire, the copyright term is the shorter of 95 years from the first publication or 120 years from creation.  

 Unauthorized Distribution and Piracy. Unauthorized distribution of copyrighted material over the Internet and through physical devices without regard to content owners' copyright rights in television programming, motion pictures and clips, such as through pirated DVDs, user-generated content, file "sharing" and peer-to-peer services, is a threat to copyright owners' ability to protect and exploit their property. The Company is engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect its intellectual property and has participated in various litigations, educational and public relations programs and legislative activity. In addition to these efforts, the Company continues to enter into and explore possibilities for commercial arrangements with various online providers to further protect and exploit its content.  

 Privacy. The laws and regulations governing the collection, use and transfer of consumer information are complex and rapidly evolving, particularly as they relate to the Company's interactive businesses. The Company monitors and considers these laws and regulations in the design and operation of its legal and regulatory compliance programs.   

 Broadcasting   

 General. Television and radio broadcasting are subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC pursuant to the Communications Act. The Communications Act empowers the FCC, among other actions, to issue, renew, revoke and modify broadcasting licenses; determine stations' frequencies, locations and operating power; regulate some of the equipment used by stations; adopt other regulations to carry out the provisions of the Communications Act and other laws, including requirements affecting the content of broadcasts; and to impose penalties for violation of its regulations, including monetary forfeitures, short-term renewal of licenses and, in egregious cases, license revocation or denial of license renewals.  

 Under the Communications Act, the FCC also regulates certain aspects of the operation of cable and DBS systems and certain other electronic media that compete with broadcast stations.  

 Indecency and Profanity Regulation. The FCC's rules prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent or profane material between the hours of 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. Broadcasters risk  

I-17 

violating the prohibition against broadcasting indecent or profane material because the vagueness of the FCC's indecency/profanity definition makes it difficult to apply, particularly with respect to spontaneous, live programming. The FCC in the last decade has stepped up its enforcement efforts as they apply to indecency and profanity, and has threatened to initiate license revocation proceedings against broadcast licensees for "serious" indecency or profanity violations. The FCC's maximum forfeiture penalty for broadcasting indecent or profane programming is $325,000 per indecent or profane utterance with a maximum forfeiture exposure of $3.0 million for any continuing violation arising from a single act or failure to act. The Company is and has been involved in litigation and, from time to time, has received and may receive in the future letters of inquiry from the FCC prompted by complaints alleging that certain programming on its broadcast stations included indecent or profane material. The Company entered into a Consent Decree with the FCC in November 2004 pursuant to which the Company made a $3.5 million voluntary contribution to the U.S. Treasury and agreed to provide training with respect to FCC indecency regulation to programming-related personnel at its broadcast television and radio operations and to implement other measures to reduce the risk of broadcasting indecent or profane material. The Company also entered into a Consent Decree with the FCC in 2007, pursuant to which the Company made a $300,000 voluntary contribution to the U.S. Treasury and the FCC and the Company settled certain disputes pertaining to the 2004 Consent Decree. (See Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Legal Matters—Indecency Regulation" on page II-33).  

 License Renewals. Radio and television broadcast licenses are typically granted for standard terms of eight years. The Communications Act requires the FCC to renew a broadcast license if the FCC finds that the station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity and, with respect to the station, there have been no serious violations by the licensee of either the Communications Act or the FCC's rules and regulations and there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or the FCC's rules and regulations that, taken together, constitute a pattern of abuse. The Company has a number of pending renewal applications, seven of which have been opposed by third parties (there are two opposed renewal applications for Radio and five opposed renewal applications for Television Stations).  

 License Assignments. The Communications Act requires prior FCC approval for the assignment of a license or transfer of control of an FCC licensee. Third parties may oppose the Company's applications to transfer or acquire additional broadcast licenses.  

 Ownership Regulation. The Communications Act and FCC rules and regulations limit the ability of individuals and entities to have an official position or ownership interest, known as an "attributable" interest, above specific levels in broadcast stations as well as in other specified mass media entities. In seeking FCC approval for the acquisition of a broadcast radio or television station license, the acquiring person or entity must demonstrate that the acquisition complies with the FCC's ownership rules or that a waiver of the rules is in the public interest. In December 2007, the FCC concluded a proceeding which examined whether to modify its various ownership rules, but with the exception of the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule, the FCC declined to do so. The FCC's action has been appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit by the Company and other interested parties.  

 The FCC's ownership rules are briefly summarized below.    

 Local Radio Ownership. The FCC's local radio ownership rule applies in all markets where the Company owns radio stations. Under that rule, one party may own up to eight radio stations in the largest markets, no more than five of which may be either AM or FM. With a few exceptions, the rule permits the common ownership of 8 radio stations in the top 50 markets, where CBS Radio has significant holdings. The Company's FM radio portfolio exceeds the FCC's numerical limit in one market, West Palm Beach, which is grandfathered. While the rules do not require the divestiture of any existing radio ownership combinations, the Company is not permitted to transfer its radio portfolio in that market intact, except to qualified small businesses.    

I-18 

 Local Television Ownership. Under the FCC's local television ownership rule, one party may own up to two television stations in the same DMA, so long as at least one of the two stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market based on audience share as of the date an application for approval of an acquisition is filed with the FCC, and at least eight independently owned and operating full-power television stations remain in the market following the acquisition. Further, without regard to the number of remaining independently owned television stations, the rule permits the ownership of more than one television station within the same DMA so long as certain signal contours of the stations involved do not overlap. Satellite television stations that simply rebroadcast the programming of a "parent" television station are exempt from the local television ownership rule if located in the same DMA as the "parent" station.  

 Television National Audience Reach Limitation. Under the national television ownership rule, one party may not own television stations which reach more than 39% of all U.S. television households. For purposes of calculating the total number of television households reached by a station, the FCC attributes a UHF television station with only 50% of the television households in its market. The Company currently owns and operates television stations that reach approximately 38% of all U.S. television households but for purposes of the national ownership limitation, the Company's reach is less than this amount applying the UHF discount in accordance with the FCC's methodology.  

 Radio-Television Cross-Ownership Rule. The radio-television cross-ownership rule limits the common ownership of radio and television stations in the same market. The numeric limit varies according to the number of independent media voices in the market. The Company owns a combination of radio and television stations in the Los Angeles market in excess of the limit. The FCC has granted an application permitting the Company to assign radio station KFWB-AM in Los Angeles to a divestiture trust, the closing of which would bring the Company into compliance with the rule.  

 Newspaper-Broadcast Cross-Ownership. The newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule prohibits the common ownership of a broadcast station and daily newspaper in the same market. The FCC modified the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule by establishing a presumption in favor of permitting cross-ownership of a daily newspaper and one broadcast station (but not one of the "top four" television stations) in the top 20 markets under certain circumstances and establishing a waiver procedure for such combinations in smaller markets. However, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit has stayed the effectiveness of this rule change. The rule in effect continues to prohibit the cross-ownership of daily newspapers and broadcast stations in all markets absent a waiver by the FCC.  

 Dual Network Rule. The dual network rule prohibits any of the four major networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC, from combining.  

 Attribution of Ownership. Under the FCC's attribution rules, a direct or indirect purchaser of various types of securities of an entity which holds FCC licenses, such as the Company, could violate the foregoing FCC ownership regulations or policies if that purchaser owned or acquired an "attributable" interest in other media properties. Under the FCC's rules, an "attributable" interest for purposes of the FCC's broadcast ownership rules generally includes: equity and debt interests which combined exceed 33% of a licensee's total assets, if the interest holder supplies more than 15% of the licensee's total weekly programming, or has an attributable same-market media interest, whether television, radio, cable or newspaper; a 5% or greater direct or indirect voting stock interest, including certain interests held in trust, unless the holder is a qualified passive investor in which case the threshold is a 20% or greater voting stock interest; any equity interest in a limited liability company or a partnership, including a limited partnership, unless    

I-19 

properly "insulated" from management activities; and any position as an officer or director of a licensee or of its direct or indirect parent. The FCC is currently reviewing its single majority voting shareholder attribution exemption, which renders as non-attributable voting interests up to 49% in a licensee controlled by a single majority voting shareholder. Because NAI holds an attributable interest in both the Company and Viacom Inc., the business of each company is attributable to the other for certain FCC purposes, which may have the effect of limiting and affecting the activities, strategic business alternatives and business terms available to the Company. (See Item 1A. "Risk Factors—The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes").  

 Alien Ownership. In general, the Communications Act prohibits foreign individuals or entities from owning more than 20% of the voting power or equity of the Company.    

 Analog to Digital Transition. As of June 12, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations were required to cease broadcasting analog programming and convert to all digital broadcasts. Digital broadcasting permits stations to offer digital channels for a wide variety of services such as high definition video programming, multiple channels of standard definition video programming, audio, data, and other types of communications, subject to the requirement that each broadcaster provide at least one free over-the-air video program signal at least comparable in resolution to the station's former analog programming transmissions.  

 Cable and Satellite Carriage of Television Broadcast Stations. The 1992 Cable Act and implementing FCC regulations govern the retransmission of commercial television stations by cable television operators. Every three years, each station must elect, with respect to cable systems within its DMA, either "must carry" status, pursuant to which the cable system's carriage of the station is mandatory, or "retransmission consent," pursuant to which the station gives up its right to mandatory carriage and secures instead the right to negotiate consideration in return for consenting to carriage. The Company has elected the retransmission consent option in substantially all cases for the period beginning January 1, 2009, and, since 2006, has implemented a systematic process of seeking monetary consideration for its retransmission consent.  

 Similarly, federal legislation and FCC rules govern the retransmission of broadcast television stations by DBS operators. DBS operators are required to carry the signals of all local television broadcast stations requesting carriage in local markets in which the DBS operator carries at least one signal pursuant to the statutory local-to-local compulsory copyright license. Every three years, each television station in such markets must elect "must carry" or "retransmission consent" status, in a manner similar to that described above with respect to cable systems. Substantially all of the Company's owned and operated television stations are being transmitted into their local markets by the two major DBS operators pursuant to retransmission consent agreements.  

 Since the broadcast television transition from analog to digital in June 2009, cable television systems are required for a three-year period to carry must-carry signals in an analog format or in the case of all-digital cable systems to provide equipment to convert must-carry digital signals for viewing on analog television sets. Cable television systems, with some exceptions, are also required to carry such stations' high definition signals. DBS operators are also required, over a four-year phase-in period, to carry the high definition signals of must-carry stations. Neither cable systems nor DBS operators are required to carry more than a station's primary video programming channel. The Company has agreements with a number of multiple system operators that require carriage of the analog, digital and high-definition signals of the Company-owned television stations before and after the transition (including multiple streams of digital programming).  

 Children's Television Programming. Federal legislation and FCC rules limit the amount and content of commercial matter that may be shown on television stations during programming designed for children  

I-20 

12 years of age and younger, and require stations to broadcast on their main program stream three hours per week of educational and informational programming ("E/I programming") designed for children 16 years of age and younger. FCC rules also impose E/I programming requirements on each additional digital multicast program stream transmitted by television stations, with the requirement increasing in proportion to the additional hours of free programming offered on multicast channels. These rules also limit the display during children's programming of Internet addresses of Web sites that contain or link to commercial material or that use program characters to sell products.  

 Program Access. Under the Communications Act, vertically integrated cable programmers (more fully described below) are generally prohibited from offering different prices, terms or conditions to competing multichannel video programming distributors unless the differential is justified by certain permissible factors set forth in the FCC's regulations. The FCC's "program access" rules also limit the ability of a vertically integrated cable programmer to enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with cable operators. A cable programmer is considered to be vertically integrated under the FCC's program access attribution rules if it owns or is owned by a cable operator in whole or in part. Cable operators for this purpose may include telephone companies that provide video programming directly to subscribers.  

 The Company's wholly owned program services are not currently subject to the program access rules. The Company's flexibility to negotiate the most favorable terms available for carriage of these services and its ability to offer cable operators exclusive programming could be adversely affected if it were to become subject to the program access rules. Because of NAI's interest in both the Company and Viacom Inc., Viacom Inc.'s businesses could be attributable to the Company for purposes of the FCC's program access rules. (See Item 1A. "Risk Factors—The Businesses of the Company and Viacom Inc. Will Be Attributable to the Other Company for Certain Regulatory Purposes").  

 Digital Radio. For a number of years, the FCC has been developing rules that would permit existing AM and FM radio broadcast stations to broadcast digitally in order both to improve sound quality and to provide spectrum for enhanced data services to complement the existing programming service and provide new business opportunities for radio broadcasters, including multicasting opportunities. The FCC has authorized AM and FM radio stations to broadcast digital signals using excess spectrum within the same allotted bandwidth used for analog transmissions. As of February 1, 2010, 105 of the Company's radio stations had commenced digital broadcasts. The FCC recently increased the maximum allowable power for digital broadcasts, which will improve the robustness and geographic coverage of digital transmissions.   

 Outdoor   

 The outdoor advertising industry is subject to extensive governmental regulation at the federal, state and local levels in the U.S. and to national, regional and local restrictions in foreign countries. These regulations can affect the operation of advertising displays and include restrictions on the construction, repair, upgrading, height, size and location of outdoor advertising structures and, in some instances, the content of advertising copy that can be displayed on these structures. In addition, outdoor advertising is the subject of targeted state and municipal taxes and fees. These laws may affect competitive conditions in various markets in various ways. Such laws may reduce the Company's expansion opportunities, or may increase or reduce competitive pressure from others. No assurance can be given that existing or future laws or regulations and the enforcement thereof will not materially and adversely affect the Outdoor business.  

 Under U.S. law, principally the Highway Beautification Act of 1965 (the "HBA"), outdoor advertising is controlled on primary and interstate highways built with federal financial assistance. As a condition to federal highway assistance, the HBA requires states to restrict billboards on such highways to commercial and industrial areas, and imposes certain additional size, spacing and other requirements associated with the installation and operation of billboards. Outdoor is not aware of any states which have passed laws and adopted regulations which are less restrictive than the federal requirements, including the obligation on the part of the billboard owner to remove, at the owner's expense and without compensation, any  

I-21 

non-grandfathered signs on such highways that do not comply with such requirements. Outdoor does not believe that the number of its billboards that may be subject to removal under these regulations is material. No state in which Outdoor operates has banned billboards, but some have adopted standards more restrictive than the federal requirements. Municipal and county governments generally also have sign controls as part of their zoning laws and building codes. Some state and local governments prohibit construction of new billboards and some allow new construction only to replace existing structures, although most allow construction of billboards subject to restrictions on zoning, size, spacing, height and type of construction. In some cases, the construction of new billboards or the relocation or modification of existing billboards is prohibited. A number of cities including New York City, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Miami have implemented or initiated legislative billboard controls, including imposing taxes, fees and/or registration requirements in an effort to decrease or restrict the number of outdoor signs and/or to raise revenue. The Company contests such laws and regulations that it believes unlawfully restrict its constitutional or other legal rights and may adversely impact the growth of its outdoor advertising business.  

 U.S. law neither requires nor prohibits removal of existing lawful billboards, but it does require payment of compensation if a state or political subdivision compels the removal of a lawful billboard along a primary or interstate highway that was built with federal financial assistance. State governments have purchased and removed legal billboards for beautification objectives in the past using federal funding for transportation enhancement programs, and may do so in the future. State government authorities from time to time use the power of eminent domain to remove billboards. Thus far, Outdoor has been able to obtain satisfactory compensation for its billboards purchased or removed as a result of this type of governmental action, although there is no assurance that this will continue to be the case in the future. Local governments do not generally purchase billboards for beautification, but some have attempted to force removal of legal but nonconforming billboards (billboards which conformed with applicable zoning regulations when built but which do not conform to current zoning regulations) after a period of years under a concept called amortization. Under this concept the governmental body asserts that just compensation is earned by continued operation of the billboard over time. Although there is some question as to the legality of amortization under federal and many state laws, amortization has been upheld in some instances. Outdoor generally has been successful in negotiating settlements with municipalities for billboards required to be removed. Restrictive regulations also limit Outdoor's ability to rebuild or replace nonconforming billboards.  

 As the owner or operator of various real properties and facilities in outdoor advertising operations, the Company must comply with various U.S. federal, state and local and foreign environmental, health, safety and land use laws and regulations. The Company and its properties are subject to such laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, disposal, emission and release of hazardous and non-hazardous substances and employee health and safety, as well as zoning and other land use restrictions which may affect, among other things, the hours of operation and illumination as well as methods and conditions of maintenance of facilities and advertising installation. Historically, the Company has not incurred significant expenditures to comply with these laws. However, future laws or a finding of a violation of or liability under existing laws could require the Company to make significant expenditures and otherwise limit or restrict its ability to use or operate some of its displays.  

 Out-of-court settlements between the major U.S. tobacco companies, the U.S. government, and all 50 states include a ban on the outdoor advertising of tobacco products. State and local governments continue to initiate proposals designed to limit outdoor advertising of alcohol. Other products, services and types of displays may be targeted in the future. Legislation regulating alcohol-related advertising due to content-related restrictions could cause a reduction in Outdoor's direct revenue from such advertisements and a simultaneous increase in the available space on the existing inventory of billboards in the outdoor advertising industry.  

I-22 

 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY  

 The Company creates, owns, distributes and exploits under licenses intellectual property worldwide. It is the Company's practice to protect its products, including its television, radio and motion picture products, characters, publications and other original and acquired works and audiovisual works made for digital exploitation. The following logos, trade names, trademarks and related trademark families are among those strongly identified with the product lines they represent and are significant assets of the Company:  CBS®, CBS Entertainment™, CBS News®, CBS Sports®, CBSSports.com®, CNET®, CBS Radio®, Showtime®, The Movie Channel®, Flix®, CBS Outdoor®, CBS Films®, CBS Outernet®, CBS Audience Network™, BNET®, CHOW™, TV.com™, Last.fm®, Spelling Television®, CSI:®, Entertainment Tonight®, Star Trek®, Simon & Schuster®, CBS College Sports Network®,CBS Interactive™ and all the call letters for the Company's television and radio stations. As a result, domestic and foreign laws protecting intellectual property rights are important to the Company and the Company actively enforces its intellectual property rights against infringements.  

 EMPLOYEES  

 At December 31, 2009, the Company employed approximately 25,580 people including full-time and part-time salaried employees.  

 FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS  

 Financial and other information by segment and relating to foreign and domestic operations for each of the last three years ending December 31 is set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

 CBS Corp. makes available free of charge on or through the Investor Relations section of its Web site, www.cbscorporation.com, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such material is made available through the Company's Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

     Item 1A. Risk Factors.