Item 7.Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

Overview

Mattel’s vision is “creating the future of play.” Mattel’s objectives are to grow its share in the marketplace, continue to improve its operating margins, and create long-term stockholder value. To achieve these objectives, management has established the following strategies:

First, Mattel is focused on embracing brand building, creativity, and innovation, and management will put a premium on speed and personal accountability. Management is focused on putting Mattel back on track for growth and improved profitability.

Additionally, Mattel is organizing around the following six strategic priorities:

•Exploiting the franchise strength of its core brands;

•Re-establishing toy leadership;

•Strengthening its global supply chain;

•Achieving distinctiveness and excellence in its commercial organization;

•Rapidly expanding into emerging markets; and

•Continuously driving cost improvement.

2015 Overview

Mattel’s 2015 results were encouraging, with significant and continuing progress being made against the six strategic priorities and cultural transformation that the company began executing against in the prior year. The business was stabilized as net sales increased over prior year in constant currency. Critical core brands like Barbie and Fisher-Price were revitalized, and core brands like Hot Wheels and Thomas maintained their strong momentum, with positive trends in both consumer takeaway and shipping. Barbie in particular was successfully revamped in 2015, with fourth quarter results reflecting double digit growth in North America and positive numbers in International. Investments in emerging markets began to pay off, with significant growth in China and Russia. Though results continued to be impacted by strong foreign exchange headwinds, these losses were partially offset by the successful implementation of cost savings initiatives in the current year.

Mattel’s 2015 financial highlights include the following:

•Gross sales in 2015 were up 1% in constant currency, and down 6% as reported, compared to 2014.

•Net sales in 2015 were up 2% in constant currency, and down 5% as reported, compared to 2014.

•Adjusted gross margin in 2015 was 49.2%, a decrease of 90 basis points from adjusted gross margin in 2014. Gross margin, as reported, in 2015 was 49.2%, a decrease of 60 basis points from 2014.

•Adjusted operating income in 2015 was $640.3 million, as compared to adjusted operating income of $765.3 million in 2014. Operating income, as reported, in 2015 was $540.9 million compared to operating income of $653.7 million in 2014.

•Adjusted earnings per share, including discrete tax items, in 2015 was $1.31, as compared to adjusted earnings per share, including discrete tax items, of $1.71 in 2014. Earnings per share, as reported, in 2015 was $1.08 compared to earnings per share of $1.45 in 2014.

2016 and Beyond

Though significant progress was made in 2015, Mattel continues to face many challenges in 2016 and beyond, including the impact of the loss of the Disney Princess license, further declines in Monster High, recent softness in American Girl, and continued foreign exchange headwinds. In 2016, Mattel intends to address revenue headwinds by building upon the current momentum in core brands, as well as pursuing new initiatives to support Monster High and strengthening American Girl. Further supporting this effort is a strong licensed entertainment slate and expected continued growth from emerging markets. 

22

Finally, Mattel is currently on track to deliver at the high-end of the Funding Our Future two-year savings target of $250 million to $300 million, helping to maintain gross margins despite challenges to revenues.

Results of Operations

2015 Compared to 2014

Consolidated Results

Net sales for 2015 were $5.70 billion, a 5% decrease as reported, and a 2% increase in constant currency, as compared to $6.02 billion in 2014. Net income for 2015 was $369.4 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $498.9 million, or $1.45 per diluted share, in 2014. Adjusted earnings per share, including discrete tax items, in 2015 was $1.31, compared to adjusted earnings per share, including discrete tax items, of $1.71 in 2014. Adjusted earnings per share, including discrete tax items, in 2015 was negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange and lower gross profit, partially offset by Funding Our Future savings.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2015 and 2014 (in millions, except percentage and basis point information):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Net sales for 2015 were $5.70 billion, a 5% decrease as reported, and a 2% increase in constant currency, as compared to $6.02 billion in 2014.

23

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated gross sales by brand for 2015 and 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales were $6.28 billion in 2015, a decrease of $434.8 million or 6% as reported, and an increase of 1% in constant currency, as compared to 2014. The decrease in gross sales in constant currency was primarily due to lower sales of Other Girls products, partially offset by higher sales of Wheels products. Of the 17% decrease in Other Girls gross sales in constant currency, 16% was due to lower sales of Monster High products. Of the 21% increase in Wheels gross sales in constant currency, 20% was due to higher sales of Hot Wheels products.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 50.8% in 2015, as compared to 50.2% in 2014. Cost of sales decreased by $126.5 million, or 4%, from $3.02 billion in 2014 to $2.90 billion in 2015, as compared to a 5% decrease in net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs decreased by $145.0 million, or 6%, from $2.44 billion in 2014 to $2.30 billion in 2015; royalty expenses increased $22.2 million, or 9%, from $242.4 million in 2014 to $264.6 million in 2015; and freight and logistics expenses decreased by $3.7 million, or 1%, from $337.1 million in 2014 to $333.4 million in 2015.

Gross Margin

Gross margin decreased from 49.8% in 2014 to 49.2% in 2015. Adjusted gross margin decreased from 50.1% in 2014 to 49.2% in 2015. The decrease in adjusted gross margin was due to unfavorable foreign exchange, higher product-related costs, unfavorable product mix, and higher royalty expenses, partially offset by price increases and Funding Our Future savings.

Advertising and Promotion Expenses

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show costs. Advertising and promotion expenses as a percentage of net sales increased from 12.2% in 2014 to 12.6% in 2015, primarily as a result of Mattel's investments to support core brands throughout the year.

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses

Other selling and administrative expenses, as reported, decreased from $1.61 billion, or 26.8% of net sales, in 2014 to $1.55 billion, or 27.1% of net sales, in 2015. Adjusted other selling and administrative expenses decreased from $1.52 billion, or 25.2% of net sales, in 2014 to $1.45 billion, or 25.4% of net sales, in 2015. The decrease in adjusted other selling and administrative expenses was primarily due to Funding Our Future savings of approximately $70 million.

24

Non-Operating Items

Interest expense increased $6.0 million from $79.3 million in 2014 to $85.3 million in 2015, primarily due to higher average outstanding long-term borrowings.

Provision for Income Taxes

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2015 was 20.4%, as compared to 15.0% in 2014. The 2015 and 2014 income tax provisions included net tax benefits of $19.1 million and $42.6 million, respectively. The 2015 net tax benefits primarily relate to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. The 2014 net tax benefits primarily relate to reassessments of prior year's tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by a tax charge related to a 2014 tax restructuring for the HIT Entertainment and MEGA Brands operations.

North America Segment

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the North America segment for 2015 and 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the North America segment were $3.08 billion in 2015, an increase of $72.3 million or 2% as reported, and 3% in constant currency, compared to 2014. The increase in the North America segment gross sales in constant currency was primarily due to higher sales of Wheels and Entertainment products, partially offset by lower sales of Other Girls products. Of the 22% increase in Wheels gross sales in constant currency, 21% was due to higher sales of Hot Wheels products. Of the 11% increase in Entertainment gross sales in constant currency, 19% was due to higher sales of Minecraft products and 3% was due to higher sales of WWE Wrestling products, partially offset by lower sales of Disney Planes products of 14%. Of the 21% decrease in Other Girls gross sales in constant currency, 9% was due to lower sales of Monster High products and 9% was due to lower sales of Disney Princess products. Cost of sales increased 2% in 2015, compared to a 3% increase in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs, higher freight and logistics expenses, and higher royalty expenses, partially offset by Funding Our Future savings. Gross margins increased due to Funding Our Future savings.

North America segment income increased 17% to $538.2 million in 2015, as compared to $459.8 million in 2014, due to higher gross profit and lower other selling and administrative expenses.

25

International Segment

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in gross sales within the International segment in 2015 versus 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the International segment for 2015 and 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the International segment were $2.60 billion in 2015, a decrease of $458.0 million or 15% as reported, and an increase of 1% in constant currency, compared to 2014. The increase in the International segment gross sales in constant currency was primarily due to higher sales of Wheels and Fisher-Price Friends products, partially offset by lower sales of Other Girls products. The 20% increase in Wheels gross sales in constant currency was due to higher sales of Hot Wheels products. The 18% increase in Fisher-Price Friends gross sales in constant currency was due to higher sales of Thomas & Friends products. Of the 15% decrease in Other Girls gross sales in constant currency, 22% was due to lower sales of Monster High products, partially offset by higher sales of Disney Princess products of 5%. Cost of sales decreased 18% in 2015, as compared to a 14% decrease in net sales, primarily due to Funding Our Future savings and lower freight and logistics expenses, partially offset by higher product and other costs. Gross margins increased due to Funding Our Future savings.

International segment income decreased 11% to $321.1 million in 2015, as compared to $359.9 million in 2014, primarily due to lower gross profit, partially offset by lower other selling and administrative expenses and lower advertising and promotion expenses.

26

American Girl Segment

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the American Girl segment for 2015 and 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $596.2 million in 2015, a decrease of $49.1 million or 8% as reported, and 7% in constant currency, compared to 2014. Of the 7% decrease in American Girl Brands gross sales in constant currency, 4% was due to lower sales of the 2015 Girl of the Year, Grace Thomas™, and 4% was due to lower sales of Truly Me products. Cost of sales decreased 6% in 2015, as compared to a 9% decrease in net sales, primarily due to lower product and other costs. Gross margins decreased due to higher product-related costs, partially offset by Funding Our Future savings.

American Girl segment income decreased 38% to $69.9 million in 2015, as compared to $113.6 million in 2014, primarily due to lower gross profit.

2014 Compared to 2013

Consolidated Results

Net sales for 2014 were $6.02 billion, a 7% decrease as reported, and a 5% decrease in constant currency, as compared to $6.48 billion in 2013. Net income for 2014 was $498.9 million, or $1.45 per diluted share, as compared to net income of $903.9 million, or $2.58 per diluted share, in 2013. Earnings per share for 2014 was negatively impacted by lower sales volume and lower gross profit.

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated results for 2014 and 2013 (in millions, except percentage and basis point information):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

Net sales for 2014 were $6.02 billion, a 7% decrease as reported, and a 5% decrease in constant currency, as compared to $6.48 billion in 2013.

27

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s consolidated gross sales by brand for 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales were $6.72 billion in 2014, a decrease of $399.4 million or 6% as reported, and 4% in constant currency, compared to 2013. The decrease in gross sales in constant currency was primarily due to lower sales of Entertainment, Fisher-Price Friends, Barbie, and Core Fisher-Price products, partially offset by Construction and Arts & Crafts products. Of the 18% decrease in Entertainment gross sales in constant currency, 5% was due to lower sales of Max Steel products, 4% was due to lower sales of Superman products, 4% was due to lower sales of CARS products, and 2% was due to lower sales of kids’ games. Of the 15% decrease in Fisher-Price Friends gross sales in constant currency, 6% was due to lower sales of Disney Jake and the Never Land Pirates products, 4% was due to lower sales of Nickelodeon products, and 3% was due to lower sales of Mike the Knight® products. The 14% decrease in Barbie gross sales in constant currency was primarily due to competition within the doll category and brand propositions that were not compelling enough to consumers. Of the 10% decrease in Core Fisher-Price gross sales in constant currency, 4% was due to lower sales of Little People products and 3% was due to lower sales of Imaginext products. The increase in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales was due to initial sales of MEGA Brands products.

Cost of Sales

Cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 50.2% in 2014, as compared to 46.4% in 2013. Cost of sales increased by $16.8 million, or 1%, from $3.01 billion in 2013 to $3.02 billion in 2014, as compared to a 7% decrease in net sales. Within cost of sales, product and other costs increased by $21.5 million, or 1%, from $2.42 billion in 2013 to $2.44 billion in 2014; royalty expenses decreased $4.5 million, or 2%, from $246.9 million in 2013 to $242.4 million in 2014; and freight and logistics expenses decreased by $0.2 million from $337.3 million in 2013 to $337.1 million in 2014.

Gross Margin

Gross margin decreased from 53.6% in 2013 to 49.8% in 2014. The decrease in gross margin was due to the impact of the MEGA Brands acquisition, including the impact of the inventory fair value markup above historical cost, efforts to improve consumer takeaway, the impact of lower sales volume on Mattel’s fixed cost manufacturing and distribution base, and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by price increases and Operational Excellence 3.0 savings offset by higher input costs

Advertising and Promotion Expenses

Advertising and promotion expenses primarily consist of: (i) media costs, which primarily include the media, planning, and buying fees for television, print, and online advertisements, (ii) non-media costs, which primarily include commercial and website production, merchandising, and promotional costs, (iii) retail advertising costs, which primarily include consumer direct catalogs, newspaper inserts, fliers, and mailers and (iv) generic advertising costs, which primarily include trade show 

28

costs. Advertising and promotion expenses as a percentage of net sales increased from 11.6% in 2013 to 12.2% in 2014, primarily as a result of lower sales volume.

Other Selling and Administrative Expenses

Other selling and administrative expenses increased from $1.56 billion, or 24.1% of net sales, in 2013 to $1.61 billion, or 26.8% of net sales, in 2014. The $53.5 million increase in other selling and administrative expenses was primarily due to approximately $53 million of transaction, integration, and amortization costs associated with the MEGA Brands acquisition, the addition of MEGA Brands’ ongoing other selling and administrative expenses of approximately $51 million, and approximately $25 million of incremental severance and other termination-related costs, partially offset by lower employee-related expenses, including incentive and equity compensation, of approximately $51 million, and Operational Excellence 3.0 gross savings of approximately $35 million.

Provision for Income Taxes

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2014 was 15.0%, as compared to 17.8% in 2013. The 2014 and 2013 income tax provisions include net tax benefits of $42.6 million and $32.2 million, respectively. The 2014 net tax benefits primarily relate to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by a tax charge related to a 2014 tax restructuring for the HIT Entertainment and MEGA Brands operations. The 2013 net tax benefits primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes.

North America Segment

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the North America segment for 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the North America segment were $3.01 billion in 2014, a decrease of $169.6 million or 5% as reported and in constant currency, compared to 2013. The decrease in the North America segment gross sales in constant currency was primarily due to lower sales of Fisher-Price Friends, Core Fisher-Price, and Entertainment products, partially offset by Construction and Arts & Crafts products. Of the 22% decrease in Fisher-Price Friends gross sales in constant currency, 6% was due to lower sales of Nickelodeon products, 5% was due to lower sales of Thomas & Friends products, 5% was due to lower sales of Disney Jake and the Never Land Pirates products, and 4% was due to lower sales of Mike the Knight products. Of the 16% decrease in Core Fisher-Price gross sales in constant currency, 6% was due to lower sales of Little People products and 4% was due to lower sales of Imaginext products. Of the 16% decrease in Entertainment gross sales in constant currency, 6% was due to lower sales of Superman products, 5% was due to lower sales of CARS products, 4% was due to lower sales of Radica products, and 3% was due to lower sales of Max Steel products. The increase in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross 

29

sales was due to initial sales of MEGA Brands products. Cost of sales increased 3% in 2014, compared to a 7% decrease in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs, partially offset by lower royalty expenses. Gross margins decreased due to the impact of the MEGA Brands acquisition, including the impact of the inventory fair value markup above historical cost, efforts to improve consumer takeaway, the impact of lower sales volume on Mattel’s fixed cost manufacturing and distribution base, and unfavorable product mix, partially offset by price increases and Operational Excellence 3.0 savings offset by higher input costs.

North America segment income decreased 36% to $459.8 million in 2014, as compared to $723.8 million in 2013, due to lower gross profit and higher other selling and administrative expenses.

International Segment

The following table provides a summary of percentage changes in gross sales within the International segment in 2014 versus 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the International segment for 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the International segment were $3.06 billion in 2014, a decrease of $216.3 million or 7% as reported, and 3% in constant currency, compared to 2013. The decrease in the International segment gross sales in constant currency was primarily due to lower sales of Entertainment and Barbie products, partially offset by Construction and Arts & Crafts products. Of the 20% decrease in Entertainment gross sales in constant currency, 7% was due to lower sales of Max Steel products, 5% was due to lower sales of kids’ games, 3% was due to lower sales of CARS products, 3% was due to lower sales of Superman products, and 2% was due to lower sales of Disney Planes products. The 18% decrease in Barbie gross sales in constant currency was primarily due to competition within the doll category and brand propositions that were not compelling enough to consumers. The increase in Construction and Arts & Crafts gross sales was due to initial sales of MEGA Brands products. Cost of sales remained flat in 2014, as compared to a 9% decrease in net sales, as lower product and other costs and lower freight and logistics expenses were offset by higher royalty expenses. Gross margins decreased due to efforts to improve consumer 

30

takeaway, the impact of the MEGA Brands acquisition, including the impact of the inventory fair value markup above historical cost, the impact of lower sales volume on Mattel’s fixed cost manufacturing and distribution base, unfavorable product mix, and higher input costs offset by price increases.

International segment income decreased 42% to $359.9 million in 2014, as compared to $622.9 million in 2013, primarily due to lower gross profit and higher other selling and administrative expenses.

American Girl Segment

The following table provides a summary of Mattel’s gross sales by brand for the American Girl segment for 2014 and 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross sales for the American Girl segment were $645.3 million in 2014, a decrease of $13.5 million or 2% as reported and in constant currency, compared to 2013. Of the 2% decrease in American Girl Brands gross sales in constant currency, 3% was due to lower sales of BeForever products. Cost of sales increased 2% in 2014, as compared to a 2% decrease in net sales, primarily due to higher product and other costs. Gross margins decreased as a result of efforts to improve consumer takeaway.

American Girl segment income decreased 18% to $113.6 million in 2014, as compared to $138.0 million in 2013, primarily due to lower gross profit and higher advertising and promotion expenses.

Cost Savings Programs

During 2013, Mattel initiated Operational Excellence 3.0, which targeted cumulative gross cost savings of approximately $175 million by the end of 2014. Mattel exceeded its Operational Excellence 3.0 goal by realizing approximately $179 million of cumulative gross cost savings throughout the program. The cost savings program was designed to generate sustainable cost savings through the following primary initiatives:

•Manufacturing efficiencies through automation, lean manufacturing principles, design for manufacturing, enterprise quality, and packaging optimization;

•Indirect procurement; and

•Operational efficiencies related to enhanced International clustering and realignment of North America operations.

During 2013, Mattel realized gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $60 million (or approximately $39 million in net cost savings). Of the gross cost savings realized in 2013, approximately $51 million was reflected within gross profit, approximately $8 million within other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $1 million within advertising and promotion expenses.

During 2014, Mattel realized gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $119 million (or approximately $74 million in net cost savings). Of the gross cost savings realized in 2014, approximately $77 million was reflected within gross profit, approximately $35 million within other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $7 million within advertising and promotion expenses.

Beginning in 2015, Mattel initiated the next phase of its cost savings program, Funding Our Future, which targets additional cumulative gross cost savings of approximately $250 million to $300 million by the end of 2016. The cost savings program is designed to generate cost savings through various initiatives, including structural and process improvements and supply chain optimization.

During 2015, Mattel realized gross cost savings before severance charges and investments of approximately $153 million (or approximately $92 million in net cost savings). Of the gross cost savings realized in 2015, approximately $70 million was 

31

reflected within gross profit, approximately $73 million within other selling and administrative expenses, and approximately $10 million within advertising and promotion expenses.

Income Taxes

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2015 was 20.4%, as compared to 15.0% in 2014. The 2015 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $19.1 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. 

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2014 and 2013 was 15.0% and 17.8%, respectively. The 2014 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $42.6 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by a tax charge related to a 2014 tax restructuring for the HIT Entertainment and MEGA Brands operations. 

The 2013 income tax provision included net tax benefits of $32.2 million, primarily related to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Mattel’s primary sources of liquidity are its cash and equivalents balances, access to short-term borrowing facilities, including its $1.60 billion domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility (“Credit Facility”), and issuances of long-term debt securities. Cash flows from operating activities could be negatively impacted by decreased demand for Mattel’s products, which could result from factors such as adverse economic conditions and changes in public and consumer preferences, or by increased costs associated with manufacturing and distribution of products or shortages in raw materials or component parts. Additionally, Mattel’s ability to issue long-term debt and obtain seasonal financing could be adversely affected by factors such as global economic crises and tight credit environments, an inability to meet its debt covenant requirements, which include maintaining consolidated debt-to-earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”) and interest coverage ratios, or a deterioration of Mattel’s credit ratings. Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations could be negatively impacted should these or other adverse conditions affect its primary sources of liquidity.

Of Mattel’s $892.8 million in cash and equivalents as of December 31, 2015, approximately $742 million is held by foreign subsidiaries. Mattel may need to accrue and pay additional income taxes if some or all of the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries were repatriated. Mattel does not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Mattel has several liquidity options to fund its domestic operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends, share repurchases, and debt service. Positive cash flows generated annually by its domestic operations, the Credit Facility, and access to both long-term and short-term public and private debt markets at highly competitive interest rates are available to fund domestic operations and obligations. If these sources are not adequate, Mattel also has the ability to repatriate highly taxed foreign earnings, receive repayment of intercompany loans to foreign subsidiaries, and distribute liquidating dividends from foreign subsidiaries, all of which would have a very nominal impact, if any, on Mattel’s tax liabilities. Mattel believes that its policy to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of its foreign subsidiaries will not result in and is not reasonably likely to result in a material change to Mattel’s liquidity position.

Current Market Conditions

Mattel is exposed to financial market risk resulting from changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates. Mattel believes that it has ample liquidity to fund its business needs, including beginning of year cash and equivalents, cash flows from operations, and access to the commercial paper markets and its Credit Facility, which it uses for seasonal working capital requirements. As of December 31, 2015, Mattel had available incremental borrowing resources totaling $1.60 billion under the Credit Facility, and Mattel has not experienced any limitations on its ability to access this source of liquidity. Market conditions could affect certain terms of other debt instruments that Mattel enters into from time to time.

Mattel monitors the third-party depository institutions that hold the Company’s cash and equivalents. Mattel’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal, and secondarily on maximizing the yield on those funds. Mattel diversifies its cash and equivalents among counterparties and securities to minimize risks.

Mattel is subject to credit risks relating to the ability of its counterparties in hedging transactions to meet their contractual payment obligations. The risks related to creditworthiness and nonperformance have been considered in the fair value measurements of Mattel’s foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Mattel closely monitors its counterparties and takes action, as necessary, to manage its counterparty credit risk.

32

Mattel expects that some of its customers and vendors may experience difficulty in obtaining the liquidity required to buy inventory or raw materials. Mattel monitors its customers’ financial condition and their liquidity in order to mitigate Mattel’s accounts receivable collectibility risks, and customer terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary. Additionally, Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment.

Mattel sponsors defined benefit pension plans and postretirement benefit plans for its employees. Actual returns below the expected rate of return, along with changes in interest rates that affect the measurement of the liability, would impact the amount and timing of Mattel’s future contributions to these plans.

Capital and Investment Framework

To guide future capital deployment decisions, with a goal of maximizing stockholder value, Mattel’s Board of Directors established the following capital and investment framework:

•To maintain approximately $800 million to $1 billion in year-end cash available to fund a substantial portion of seasonal working capital;

•To maintain a year-end debt-to-capital ratio of about 35%;

•To invest approximately $180 million to $200 million in capital expenditures annually to maintain and grow the business;

•To make strategic opportunistic acquisitions; and

•To return excess funds to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases.

Over the long term, assuming annual cash flows from operating activities remain strong, Mattel plans to use its free cash flows to invest in strategic acquisitions and to return funds to stockholders through cash dividends and share repurchases. Mattel’s share repurchase program has no expiration date and repurchases will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. The ability to successfully implement the capital deployment plan is directly dependent on Mattel’s ability to generate strong annual cash flows from operating activities. There is no assurance that Mattel will continue to generate strong annual cash flows from operating activities or achieve its targeted goals for investing activities.

Operating Activities

Cash flows from operating activities were $734.6 million during 2015, as compared to $888.6 million during 2014 and $698.4 million during 2013. The decrease in cash flows from operating activities in 2015 from 2014 was primarily due to higher working capital usage and lower net income. The increase in cash flows from operating activities in 2014 from 2013 was primarily due to lower working capital usage, partially offset by lower net income. 

Investing Activities

Cash flows used for investing activities were $282.5 million during 2015, as compared to $708.6 million during 2014 and $242.1 million during 2013. The decrease in cash flows used for investing activities in 2015 from 2014 was primarily due to the acquisition of MEGA Brands in 2014. The increase in cash flows used for investing activities in 2014 from 2013 was primarily due to the acquisition of MEGA Brands.

Financing Activities

Cash flows used for financing activities were $500.2 million during 2015, as compared to $227.3 million during 2014 and $740.0 million during 2013. The increase in cash flows used for financing activities in 2015 from 2014 was primarily due to prior year net proceeds from long-term borrowings and lower proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by lower share repurchases. The decrease in cash flows used for financing activities in 2014 from 2013 was primarily due to lower repayments of long-term borrowings and lower share repurchases, partially offset by lower proceeds from stock option exercises.

During 2015, Mattel did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. During 2014, Mattel repurchased 4.9 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $177.2 million. During 2013, Mattel repurchased 11.0 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $469.2 million. Mattel's share repurchase program was first announced on July 21, 2003. On July 17, 2013, the Board of Directors authorized Mattel to increase its share repurchase program by $500.0 million. At December 31, 2015, share repurchase authorizations of $203.0 million had not been executed. Repurchases under the program will take place from time to time, depending on market conditions. Mattel's share repurchase program has no expiration date. 

33

During 2015, 2014, and 2013, Mattel paid total dividends per share of $1.52, $1.52, and $1.44, respectively, to holders of its common stock. The Board of Directors declared the dividends on a quarterly basis, and Mattel paid the dividends during the quarters in which the dividends were declared. The payment of dividends on common stock is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and is subject to customary limitations. Dividend payments were $515.1 million, $514.8 million, and $494.4 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. 

Seasonal Financing

See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Seasonal Financing and Debt.”

Financial Position

Mattel’s cash and equivalents decreased $78.9 million to $892.8 million at December 31, 2015, as compared to $971.7 million at December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily due to dividend payments, purchases of tools, dies, and molds and other property, plant, and equipment, partially offset by cash flows from operating activities. 

Accounts receivable increased $50.6 million to $1.15 billion at December 31, 2015, as compared to $1.09 billion at December 31, 2014. Inventory increased $25.7 million to $587.5 million at December 31, 2015, as compared to $561.8 million at December 31, 2014. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to the later timing of sales in the US. The increase in inventory was primarily due to a shift in North America from direct import sales to trade sales, which requires longer lead times.

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased $239.8 million to $1.31 billion at December 31, 2015, as compared to $1.07 billion at December 31, 2014. The increase was primarily due to the extension of credit terms with third-party vendors, tighter management of vendor disbursements, and higher incentive compensation.

As of December 31, 2015, Mattel had foreign short-term borrowings outstanding of $16.9 million, an increase of $16.9 million from December 2014. The current portion of long-term debt increased to $300.0 million at December 31, 2015 due to the scheduled repayment of 2011 Senior Notes in 2016.

A summary of Mattel’s capitalization is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Noncurrent long-term debt decreased by $300.0 million from December 31, 2014 to $1.80 billion at December 31, 2015 due to the reclassification of the 2011 Senior Notes due in November 2016 to current. 

Stockholders’ equity decreased $315.8 million from December 31, 2014 to $2.63 billion at December 31, 2015, primarily due to dividend payments and currency translation adjustments, partially offset by net income.

Mattel’s debt-to-total capital ratio, including short-term borrowings and the current portion of long-term debt, increased from 41.6% at December 31, 2014 to 44.6% at December 31, 2015 as a result of lower stockholders’ equity.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Mattel has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on its financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.

34

Commitments

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into debt agreements and contractual arrangements to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products and for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery. These arrangements include commitments for future inventory and service purchases and royalty payments pursuant to licensing agreements. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guarantees or minimum expenditures during the terms of the contracts. Mattel also has defined benefit and postretirement benefit plans, which require future cash contributions and benefit payments. Additionally, Mattel routinely enters into noncancelable lease agreements for premises and equipment used, which contain minimum rental payments.

The following table summarizes Mattel’s contractual commitments and obligations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Represents total obligation, including imputed interest of $0.2 million.

Liabilities for uncertain tax positions for which a cash tax payment is not expected to be made in the next twelve months are classified as other noncurrent liabilities. Due to the uncertainty about the periods in which examinations will be completed and limited information related to current audits, Mattel is not able to make reasonably reliable estimates of the periods in which cash settlements will occur with taxing authorities for the noncurrent liabilities.

Subsequent Events

In January 2016, Mattel acquired substantially all of the assets of Fuhu, Inc., a developer of high technology products for children and families and best known for its nabi® brand of products. In addition, Mattel completed its acquisition of Sproutling, Inc., a maker of smart technology products for parents and families, in January 2016. These acquisitions are expected to strengthen Mattel's digital and smart technology capabilities and create opportunities to bring new technology-enabled products to market. These acquisitions are immaterial, individually and in the aggregate, to Mattel.

On February 1, 2016, Mattel announced that its Board of Directors declared a first quarter dividend of $0.38 per common share. The dividend is payable on March 4, 2016 to stockholders of record on February 17, 2016.

Litigation

The content of Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation” is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 7.

Effects of Inflation

Inflation rates in the US and in major foreign countries where Mattel does business have not had a significant impact on its results of operations or financial position during 2015, 2014, or 2013. Mattel receives some protection from the impact of inflation from high turnover of inventories and its ability, under certain circumstances and at certain times, to pass on higher prices to its customers.

Employee Savings Plan

Mattel sponsors a 401(k) savings plan, the Mattel, Inc. Personal Investment Plan (the “Plan”), for its domestic employees. Contributions to the Plan include voluntary contributions by eligible employees and employer automatic and matching 

35

contributions by Mattel. The Plan allows employees to allocate both their voluntary contributions and their employer automatic and matching contributions to a variety of investment funds, including a fund that is invested in Mattel common stock (the “Mattel Stock Fund”). Employees are not required to allocate any of their Plan account balance to the Mattel Stock Fund, allowing employees to limit or eliminate their exposure to market changes in Mattel’s stock price. Furthermore, the Plan limits the percentage of the employee’s total account balance that may be allocated to the Mattel Stock Fund to 25%. Employees may generally reallocate their account balances on a daily basis. However, pursuant to Mattel’s insider trading policy, employees classified as insiders and restricted personnel under Mattel’s insider trading policy are limited to certain periods in which they may make allocations into or out of the Mattel Stock Fund.

Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Mattel makes certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses. The accounting policies and estimates described below are those Mattel considers most critical in preparing its consolidated financial statements. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures included below. These accounting policies and estimates include significant judgments made by management using information available at the time the estimates are made. As described below, however, these estimates could change materially if different information or assumptions were used instead.

For a summary of Mattel’s significant accounting policies, estimates, and methods used in the preparation of Mattel’s consolidated financial statements, see Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” In most instances, Mattel must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“US GAAP”).

Accounts Receivable—Allowance for Doubtful Accounts

The allowance for doubtful accounts represents adjustments to customer trade accounts receivable for amounts deemed partially or entirely uncollectible. Management believes the accounting estimate related to the allowance for doubtful accounts is a “critical accounting estimate” because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including other selling and administrative expenses, net income, and accounts receivable. In addition, the allowance requires a high degree of judgment since it involves estimation of the impact of both current and future economic factors in relation to its customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to Mattel.

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the North America segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets and, to a limited extent, wholesalers, and directly to consumers. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.

In recent years, the mass-market retail channel has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. Mattel’s sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral and are highly concentrated in the third and fourth quarters due to the seasonal nature of toy sales, which results in a substantial portion of trade receivables being collected during the latter half of the year and the first quarter of the following year. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond the control of Mattel. This could increase Mattel’s exposure to losses from bad debts.

A small number of customers account for a large share of Mattel’s net sales and accounts receivable. In 2015, Mattel’s three largest customers, Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 37% of net sales, and its ten largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 48% of net sales. As of December 31, 2015, Mattel’s three largest customers accounted for approximately 34% of net accounts receivable, and its ten largest customers accounted for approximately 47% of net accounts receivable. The concentration of Mattel’s business with a relatively small number of customers may expose Mattel to a material adverse effect if one or more of Mattel’s large customers were to experience financial difficulty.

Mattel has procedures to mitigate its risk of exposure to losses from bad debts. Revenue is recognized upon shipment or upon receipt of products by the customer, depending on the terms, provided that: there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance; persuasive evidence of an agreement exists documenting the specific terms of the transaction; the sales price is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. Value added taxes are recorded on a net basis and are excluded from revenue. Credit limits and payment terms are established based on the underlying criteria that collectibility must be reasonably assured at the levels set for each customer. Extensive evaluations are performed on an ongoing basis throughout the 

36

fiscal year of each customer’s financial performance, cash generation, financing availability, and liquidity status. Customers are reviewed at least annually, with more frequent reviews being performed, if necessary, based on the customers’ financial condition and the level of credit being extended. For customers who are experiencing financial difficulties, management performs additional financial analyses prior to shipping to those customers on credit. Customers’ terms and credit limits are adjusted, if necessary, to reflect the results of the review. Mattel uses a variety of financial arrangements to ensure collectibility of accounts receivable of customers deemed to be a credit risk, including requiring letters of credit, factoring, purchasing various forms of credit insurance with unrelated third parties, or requiring cash in advance of shipment.

The following table summarizes Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mattel’s allowance for doubtful accounts is based on management’s assessment of the business environment, customers’ financial condition, historical collection experience, accounts receivable aging, and customer disputes. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts reflect management’s assessment of the factors noted above, including past due accounts, disputed balances with customers, and the financial condition of customers. The allowance for doubtful accounts is also affected by the time at which uncollectible accounts receivable balances are actually written off.

Mattel believes that its allowance for doubtful accounts at December 31, 2015 is adequate and proper. However, as described above, Mattel’s business is greatly dependent on a small number of customers. Should one or more of Mattel’s major customers experience liquidity problems, then the allowance for doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover such losses. Any incremental bad debt charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.

Inventories—Allowance for Obsolescence

Inventories, net of an allowance for excess quantities and obsolescence, are stated at the lower of cost or market. Inventory obsolescence reserves are recorded for damaged, obsolete, excess, and slow-moving inventory. Inventory allowances are charged to cost of sales and establish a lower cost basis for the inventory. Management believes that the accounting estimate related to the allowance for obsolescence is a “critical accounting estimate” because changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimate could materially affect key financial measures, including gross profit, net income, and inventories. As more fully described below, valuation of Mattel’s inventory could be impacted by changes in public and consumer preferences, demand for product, or changes in the buying patterns of both retailers and consumers and inventory management of customers.

In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment since actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in excess inventory in a particular product line, which would require management to record a valuation adjustment on such inventory.

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, who usually request delivery within three months. In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three quarters of its fiscal year. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times create risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers are also attempting to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase inventory valuation risk since Mattel’s inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed.

When current conditions in the domestic and global economies become uncertain, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts of the economy, including the economies in which Mattel participates. Because all components of Mattel’s budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets it serves and demand for its products, 

37

economic uncertainty makes estimates of future demand for product more difficult. Such economic changes may affect the sales of Mattel’s products and its corresponding inventory levels, which could potentially impact the valuation of its inventory.

At the end of each quarter, management within each business segment, North America, International, and American Girl, performs a detailed review of its inventory on an item-by-item basis and identifies products that are believed to be impaired. Management assesses the need for, and the amount of, an obsolescence reserve based on the following factors: 

•Customer and/or consumer demand for the item;

•Overall inventory positions of Mattel’s customers;

•Strength of competing products in the market;

•Quantity on hand of the item;

•Sales price of the item;

•Mattel’s cost for the item; and

•Length of time the item has been in inventory.

The timeframe between when an estimate is made and the time of disposal depends on the above factors and may vary significantly. Generally, slow-moving inventory is liquidated during the next annual selling cycle.

The following table summarizes Mattel’s obsolescence reserve at December 31:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Management believes that its allowance for obsolescence at December 31, 2015 is adequate and proper. However, the impact resulting from the aforementioned factors could cause actual results to vary. Any incremental obsolescence charges would negatively affect the results of operations of one or more of Mattel’s business segments.

Goodwill and Nonamortizable Intangible Assets

Mattel tests goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets for impairment annually or more often if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment may have occurred. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to the fair value estimates of its goodwill and nonamortizable intangible assets are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income, goodwill, and other intangible assets.

Assessing goodwill for impairment involves a high degree of judgment due to the assumptions that underlie the valuation. For purposes of evaluating whether goodwill is impaired, goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are at the operating segment level. Mattel’s reporting units are: (i) North America, (ii) International, and (iii) American Girl. Mattel then assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. This qualitative assessment is used as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test. When the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test is necessary, impairment is determined by estimating the fair value of a reporting unit and comparing that value to the reporting unit’s book value. If the fair value is greater than the book value of the reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired. If an impairment exists, the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of its assets and liabilities excluding goodwill, with the excess amount representing the fair value of goodwill. An impairment loss is measured as the amount by which the book value of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds the estimated fair value of that goodwill.

When performing the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test, Mattel utilizes the fair value based upon the discounted cash flows that the business can be expected to generate in the future (the “Income Approach”). The Income Approach valuation method requires Mattel to make projections of revenue, operating costs, and working capital investment for the reporting unit over a multi-year period. Additionally, management must make an estimate of a weighted average cost of capital that a market participant would use as a discount rate. Changes in these projections or estimates could result in a reporting unit either passing or failing the first step of the impairment model, which could significantly change the amount of any impairment ultimately recorded.

38

During the third quarter of 2015, Mattel assessed its goodwill for impairment by performing the quantitative two-step goodwill impairment test. Mattel determined that its goodwill was not impaired since, for each of the reporting units, the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. 

Testing nonamortizable intangible assets for impairment also involves a high degree of judgment due to the assumptions that underlie the valuation. Mattel evaluates nonamortizable intangible assets, including trademarks and trade names, for impairment by comparing the estimated fair values with the carrying values. The fair value is measured using a multi-period excess earnings method, which reflects the incremental after-tax cash flows attributable to the trademark and trade names after deducting the appropriate contributory asset charges.

During the second quarter of 2013, Mattel changed its brand strategy for Polly Pocket, which includes a more focused allocation of resources to support the Polly Pocket brand in specific markets, resulting in a reduction of the forecasted future cash flows of the brand. As a result of the change, Mattel tested the asset for impairment. The Polly Pocket trade name, which previously had a carrying value of approximately $113 million, had a fair value of approximately $99 million, and Mattel recorded an impairment charge of approximately $14 million within other selling and administrative expenses. In conjunction with the impairment test, Mattel reassessed Polly Pocket’s nonamortizable classification and determined that the nonamortizable classification could no longer be supported. As such, the Polly Pocket trade name was reclassified as an amortizable intangible asset, and the remaining fair value of the asset is being amortized over its estimated remaining useful life. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Goodwill and Other Intangibles” for additional information.

During the third quarter of 2015, Mattel performed the annual impairment test for the remaining nonamortizable intangible assets as required and determined that its remaining nonamortizable intangible assets were not impaired as the fair values of the nonamortizable intangible assets exceeded their carrying values. Mattel also considered events and circumstances subsequent to these impairment tests in concluding there was no impairment as of December 31, 2015.

Sales Adjustments

Mattel routinely enters into arrangements with its customers to provide sales incentives, support customer promotions, and provide allowances for returns and defective merchandise. Such programs are based primarily on customer purchases, customer performance of specified promotional activities, and other specified factors such as sales to consumers. Accruals for these programs are recorded as sales adjustments that reduce gross revenue in the period the related revenue is recognized. Sales adjustments for such programs totaled $581.0 million, $694.6 million, and $632.9 million during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively.

The above-described programs primarily involve fixed amounts or percentages of sales to customers. Accruals for such programs are calculated based on an assessment of customers’ purchases and performance under the programs and any other specified factors. While the majority of sales adjustment amounts are readily determinable at period end and do not require estimates, certain of the sales adjustments require management to make estimates. In making these estimates, management considers all available information, including the overall business environment, historical trends, and information from customers. Management believes that the accruals recorded for customer programs as of December 31, 2015 are adequate and proper.

Benefit Plan Assumptions

Mattel and certain of its subsidiaries have retirement and other postretirement benefit plans covering substantially all employees of these companies. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Employee Benefit Plans.”

Actuarial valuations are used in determining amounts recognized in the financial statements for certain retirement and other postretirement benefit plans. These valuations incorporate the following significant assumptions: 

•Weighted average discount rate to be used to measure future plan obligations and interest cost component of plan income or expense;

•Rate of future compensation increases (for defined benefit pension plans);

•Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets (for funded plans); and

•Health care cost trend rates (for other postretirement benefit plans).

Management believes that these assumptions are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in these assumptions could impact Mattel’s results of operations and financial position. Management believes that the assumptions utilized to record its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on the plans’ experience and advice received from its 

39

outside actuaries. Mattel reviews its benefit plan assumptions annually and modifies its assumptions based on current rates and trends as appropriate. The effects of such changes in assumptions are amortized as part of plan income or expense in future periods.

At the end of each fiscal year, Mattel determines the weighted average discount rate used to calculate the projected benefit obligation. The discount rate is an estimate of the current interest rate at which the benefit plan liabilities could be effectively settled at the end of the year. The discount rate also impacts the interest cost component of plan income or expense. As of December 31, 2015, Mattel determined the discount rate for its domestic benefit plans used in determining the projected and accumulated benefit obligations to be 4.2%, as compared to 3.8% and 4.7% as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In estimating this rate, Mattel reviews rates of return on high-quality corporate bond indices, which approximate the timing and amount of benefit payments. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, the increase in the discount rate from 3.8% to 4.2% would result in a decrease in benefit plan expense during 2016 of $0.2 million.

The rate of future compensation increases used by Mattel for the benefit obligation and the net periodic pension cost of its domestic defined benefit pension plans averaged 3.8% for 2015, 2014, and 2013, based on plan demographics. This assumption is reviewed annually based on historical salary increases for participants in the defined benefit pension plans and impacts the service and interest cost components of plan income or expense.

The long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on management’s expectation of earnings on the assets that secure Mattel’s funded defined benefit pension plans, taking into account the mix of invested assets, the arithmetic average of past returns, economic and stock market conditions and future expectations, and the long-term nature of the projected benefit obligation to which these investments relate. The long-term rate of return is used to calculate the expected return on plan assets that is used in calculating pension income or expense. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is deferred, net of tax, and is included in accumulated other comprehensive loss. The net deferral of past asset gains or losses affects the calculated value of plan assets and, ultimately, future pension income or expense. Mattel’s long-term rate of return used in determining plan expense for its domestic defined benefit pension plans was 7.5% during the first half of 2015 and revised to 6.8% for the second half of 2015, as compared to 8.0% in 2014 and 2013. Assuming all other benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase in benefit plan expense during 2016 of $3.5 million.

The health care cost trend rates used by Mattel for its other postretirement benefit plans reflect management’s best estimate of expected claim costs over the next ten years. These trend rates impact the service and interest cost components of plan expense. Rates ranging from 8.8% in 2015 to 4.5% in 2024, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2023 for participants younger than age 65 and 2024 for participants age 65 and older, were used in determining plan expense for 2015. These rates are reviewed annually and are estimated based on historical costs for participants in the other postretirement benefit plans as well as estimates based on current economic conditions. As of December 31, 2015, Mattel maintained the health care cost trend rates for its other postretirement benefit plan obligation at 7.5% for participants younger than age 65 and 8.8% for participants age 65 and older. For participants younger than age 65, the cost trend rates are estimated to reduce to 4.5% by 2023, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2023. For participants age 65 and older, the cost trend rates are estimated to reduce to 4.5% by 2024, with rates assumed to stabilize in 2024. Assuming all other postretirement benefit plan assumptions remain constant, a one percentage point increase in the assumed health care cost trend rates would result in an increase in benefit plan expense during 2016 of $0.1 million.

A one percentage point increase/(decrease) in the assumed health care cost trend rate for each future year would impact the postretirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2015 by $2.0 million and $(1.6) million, respectively, and the service and interest cost recognized for 2015 by $0.1 million and $(0.1) million, respectively.

Share-Based Payments

Mattel recognizes the cost of employee share-based payment awards on a straight-line attribution basis over the requisite employee service period, net of estimated forfeitures. In determining when additional tax benefits associated with share-based payment exercises are recognized, Mattel follows the ordering of deductions under the tax law, which allows deductions for share-based payment exercises to be utilized before previously existing net operating loss carryforwards.

Determining the fair value of share-based awards at the measurement date requires judgment, including estimating the expected term that stock options will be outstanding prior to exercise, the associated volatility, and the expected dividends. Mattel estimates the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The expected life of the options used in this calculation is the period of time the options are expected to be outstanding and has been determined based on historical exercise experience. Expected stock price volatility is based on the historical volatility of Mattel’s stock for a period approximating the expected life, the expected dividend yield is based on Mattel’s most recent actual annual dividend payout, and the risk-free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on US Treasury zero-coupon issues approximating the 

40

expected life. Judgment is also required in estimating the amount of share-based awards that will be forfeited prior to vesting. Management believes that these assumptions are “critical accounting estimates” because significant changes in the assumptions used to develop the estimates could materially affect key financial measures, including net income.

The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted during 2015, 2014, and 2013 was $1.97, $4.57, and $8.80, respectively. The following weighted average assumptions were used in determining the fair value of options granted:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table summarizes the sensitivity of valuation assumptions within the calculation of stock option fair values, if all other assumptions are held constant:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Mattel recognized compensation expense of $15.2 million, $12.5 million, and $12.1 million for stock options during 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, which is included within other selling and administrative expenses. Compensation expense recognized related to grants of restricted stock units (“RSUs”), including performance-based restricted stock units (“Performance RSUs”), was $41.5 million, $39.5 million, and $38.2 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively, and is also included within other selling and administrative expenses. As of December 31, 2015, total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested share-based payments totaled $85.4 million and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years.

Income Taxes 

Mattel’s income tax provision and related income tax assets and liabilities are based on actual and expected future income, US and foreign statutory income tax rates, and tax regulations and planning opportunities in the various jurisdictions in which Mattel operates. Management believes that the accounting estimates related to income taxes are “critical accounting estimates” because significant judgment is required in interpreting tax regulations in the US and in foreign jurisdictions, evaluating Mattel’s worldwide uncertain tax positions, and assessing the likelihood of realizing certain tax benefits. Actual results could differ materially from those judgments, and changes in judgments could materially affect Mattel’s consolidated financial statements. 

Certain income and expense items are accounted for differently for financial reporting and income tax purposes. As a result, the income tax expense reflected in Mattel’s consolidated statements of operations is different than that reported in Mattel’s tax returns filed with the taxing authorities. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in Mattel’s tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These timing differences create deferred income tax assets and liabilities. Deferred income tax assets generally represent items that can be 

41

used as a tax deduction or credit in Mattel’s tax returns in future years for which Mattel has already recorded a tax benefit in its consolidated statement of operations. Mattel records a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred income tax assets if, based on the weight of available evidence, management believes expected future taxable income is not likely to support the use of a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction. Management evaluates the level of Mattel’s valuation allowances at least annually, and more frequently if actual operating results differ significantly from forecasted results. 

Mattel records unrecognized tax benefits for US federal, state, local, and foreign tax positions related primarily to transfer pricing, tax credits claimed, tax nexus, and apportionment. For each reporting period, management applies a consistent methodology to measure unrecognized tax benefits and all unrecognized tax benefits are reviewed periodically and adjusted as circumstances warrant. Mattel’s measurement of its unrecognized tax benefits is based on management’s assessment of all relevant information, including prior audit experience, the status of audits, conclusions of tax audits, lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, identification of new issues, and any administrative guidance or developments. Mattel recognizes unrecognized tax benefits in the first financial reporting period in which information becomes available indicating that such benefits will more-likely-than-not (a greater than 50 percent likelihood) be realized. 

Mattel’s effective tax rate on income before income taxes in 2015 was 20.4%, as compared to 15.0% in 2014. The income tax provision included net tax benefits of $19.1 million, $42.6 million, and $32.2 million in 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. The 2015 net tax benefits primarily relate to reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. The 2014 net tax benefits primarily related to the reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes, partially offset by a tax charge related to a 2014 tax restructuring for the HIT Entertainment and MEGA Brands operations. The 2013 net tax benefits primarily related to the reassessments of prior years’ tax liabilities based on the status of audits and tax filings in various jurisdictions around the world, settlements, and enacted tax law changes. 

In the normal course of business, Mattel is regularly audited by federal, state, local, and foreign tax authorities. The ultimate settlement of any particular issue with the applicable taxing authority could have a material impact on Mattel’s consolidated financial statements. 

New Accounting Pronouncements

See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

To supplement the financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, Mattel presents certain non-GAAP financial measures within the meaning of Regulation G promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include gross sales, adjusted gross margin and adjusted gross profit, adjusted other selling and administrative expenses, adjusted operating income, adjusted earnings per share, and constant currency. Mattel uses these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze its continuing operations and to monitor, assess, and identify meaningful trends in its operating and financial performance. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP financial measures.

Gross Sales

Gross sales represent sales to customers, excluding the impact of sales adjustments. Net sales, as reported, include the impact of sales adjustments, such as trade discounts and other allowances. Mattel presents changes in gross sales as a metric for comparing its aggregate, brand, and geographic results to highlight significant trends in Mattel’s business. Changes in gross sales are discussed because, while Mattel records the details of such sales adjustments in its financial accounting systems at the time of sale, such sales adjustments are generally not associated with individual products, making net sales less meaningful. 

A reconciliation between net sales and gross sales is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42

Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted Gross Profit

Adjusted gross margin represents Mattel’s reported gross profit, adjusted to exclude the impact of inventory fair value markup above cost associated with the acquisition of a business, as a percentage of net sales. Adjusted gross margin is presented to provide additional perspective on underlying trends in Mattel’s core gross margin. A reconciliation between gross margin and adjusted gross margin is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Other Selling and Administrative Expenses

Adjusted other selling and administrative expenses represents Mattel’s reported other selling and administrative expenses, adjusted to exclude the impact of expenses associated with the acquisition and integration of an acquired business and restructuring and restructuring-related expenses. Adjusted other selling and administrative expenses is presented to provide additional perspective on underlying trends in Mattel’s core other selling and administrative expenses. A reconciliation between other selling and administrative expenses and adjusted other selling and administrative expenses is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Operating Income

Adjusted operating income represents Mattel’s reported operating income, adjusted to exclude the impact of inventory fair value markup above cost associated with the acquisition of a business, expenses associated with the acquisition and integration of an acquired business and the impact of restructuring and restructuring-related expenses. Adjusted operating income is presented to provide additional perspective on underlying trends in Mattel’s core operating results. A reconciliation between operating income and adjusted operating income is as follows:

43

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Earnings Per Share

Adjusted earnings per share represents Mattel’s reported diluted earnings per common share, adjusted to exclude the impact of inventory fair value markup above cost associated with the acquisition of a business, expenses associated with the acquisition and integration of an acquired business, the impact of restructuring and restructuring-related expenses and discrete tax items. Each adjustment is tax effected, if necessary, and divided by the reported weighted average number of common and potential common shares to determine the per-share impact of the adjustment. Adjusted earnings per share is presented to provide additional perspective on underlying trends in Mattel’s core earnings. A reconciliation between earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Constant Currency

Percentage changes in results expressed in constant currency are presented excluding the impact from changes in currency exchange rates. To present this information, current period and prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than US dollar are translated using consistent exchange rates, rather than using the actual exchange rate in effect during the respective periods. The difference between the current period and prior period results using the consistent exchange rates reflects the changes in the underlying performance results, excluding the impact from changes in currency exchange rates. Mattel analyzes constant currency results to provide additional perspective on changes in underlying trends in Mattel’s operating performance. A reconciliation of constant currency changes in gross sales by brand to the actual changes, including the impact from changes in currency exchange rates, is provided above in “Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A reconciliation of constant currency changes in net sales to the actual changes, including the impact from changes in currency exchange rates, is provided above under “Gross Sales.”

Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.