PART I   

  ITEM 1.    Business    

 General  

 Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading national provider of specialty contracting services, and we believe we are one of the largest contractors serving the transmission and distribution sector of the North American electric utility industry. We currently operate in two business segments. The infrastructure services (Infrastructure Services) segment provides specialized contracting services, offering end-to-end network solutions to the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries. Specifically, the comprehensive services provided by the Infrastructure Services segment include designing, installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure, as well as certain ancillary services. Additionally, the dark fiber (Dark Fiber) segment designs, procures, constructs and maintains fiber-optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and licenses the right to use point-to-point fiber-optic telecommunications facilities to our customers. The Dark Fiber segment services educational institutions, large industrial and financial services customers and other entities with high bandwidth telecommunication needs.  

 Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 were approximately $3.78 billion, of which 56.8% was attributable to electric power work, 20.8% to gas work, 14.2% to telecommunications and cable television work and 6.6% to ancillary services. In addition, 1.6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 was generated by the Dark Fiber segment.  

 We have established a nationwide presence with a workforce of over 14,000 employees, which enables us to quickly and reliably serve a diversified customer base. We believe our reputation for responsiveness, performance, geographic reach and a comprehensive service offering has resulted in strong relationships with numerous customers, which include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve.  

 Representative customers include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We were organized as a corporation in the state of Delaware in 1997, and since that time have grown organically and made strategic acquisitions to expand our geographic presence and scope of services and to develop new capabilities to meet our customers’ evolving needs. On August 30, 2007, we acquired, through a merger transaction (the Merger), all of the outstanding common stock of InfraSource Services, Inc. (InfraSource). Similar to us, InfraSource provided design, procurement, construction, testing and maintenance services to electric power utilities, natural gas utilities, telecommunication customers, government entities and heavy industrial companies, such as petrochemical, processing and refining businesses, primarily in the United States. As a result of the Merger, we enhanced and expanded our position as a leading specialized contracting services company serving the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries and added the Dark Fiber segment.  

 2   
 Industry Overview  

 Described below are various industry trends that we believe will increase demand for our services over the long-term. We recognize, however, that we and our customers are operating in a challenging business environment in light of the economic downturn and volatile capital markets. We expect these economic and market conditions to negatively impact demand for our services until the conditions improve significantly. Therefore, we cannot predict the timing or magnitude that any of these trends will have on demand for our services, particularly in the near-term.  

 Need to upgrade electric power transmission and distribution networks. The U.S. and Canadian electric power grid, which consists of more than 200,000 miles of high-voltage lines delivering electricity to over 300 million people, is aging and requires significant maintenance and expansion to handle the U.S. and Canada’s current and growing power needs. In addition, the grid must facilitate the sale of electricity across competitive regional networks, a function for which it was not originally designed. According to the North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC), industry professionals rank the aging infrastructure and limited new construction as the number one challenge to reliability of the transmission system.  

 While the grid continues to deteriorate, demand for electricity is expected to continue to grow over the long-term. According to the 2008 Annual Energy Outlook published by the U.S. Department of Energy’s Energy Information Administration (EIA), the population in the United States has increased by 20% since 1990, with energy consumption increasing by a comparable 18%. The EIA also projects in the same report that total U.S. electricity sales from producers to consumers will increase by 41% from 3,660 billion kilowatt-hours in 2005 to 5,168 billion kilowatt-hours in 2030. NERC reports in its 2008 Long-Term Reliability Assessment that peak demand for electricity in the U.S., which typically occurs in the summer, is forecasted to increase by 16.6% over the next ten years.  

 This increasing demand, coupled with the aging infrastructure, will affect reliability, requiring utilities to upgrade their existing transmission and distribution systems. These system upgrades are expected to result in increased spending over the next several years. According to a 2008 Edison Electric Institute (EEI) report, investor-owned utilities spent a total of $6.9 billion on their transmission systems in 2006 and plan to invest an additional $38.1 billion in their transmission systems from 2007 to 2010. This represents a 60% increase over the amount invested from 2003 to 2006. NERC projects the number of transmission miles will increase by 9.5% or 15,700 circuit miles in the U.S. over the next ten years. The Brattle Group, an independent consulting firm, reported in 2008 that by 2030, the electric utility industry will need to make a total infrastructure investment of between $1.5 trillion and $2.0 trillion to meet projected demand. The estimates from the Brattle Group include investments of $697 billion for new generation capacity, $298 billion for new transmission infrastructure and $583 billion for new distribution infrastructure. We believe that we are the partner of choice for utilities in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources as they work to address the aging infrastructure requirements and increasing demand. We also believe that our utility customers generally remain financially healthy and are currently able to obtain financing for projects despite the instability in the financial markets. A long-term or deep recession, however, will likely have a negative impact on our customers’ spending, and a continued decline in the capital markets may negatively affect our customers’ plans for future projects, which could be delayed, reduced or eliminated if funding is not available.  

 Increased opportunities related to renewable energy. We consider renewable energy, including wind and solar, to be one of the largest, most rapidly emerging opportunities for our engineering, project management and installation services. Concerns about greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the need to reduce reliance on power generation from fossil fuels such as coal, oil and natural gas, are creating the drive for more renewable energy. According to its annual report, the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) stated that U.S. capacity to generate power from wind turbines grew by a record 8,358 megawatts in 2008 as a result of $17 billion in investments. This represents 50% growth and brings the nation’s total renewable capacity to about 4% of the overall generation portfolio. Under current mandates in 30 states, renewable energy is required to account for up to 30% of a utility’s energy generation portfolio within the next five to fifteen years. Renewable portfolio standards require seven to nine gigawatts to be from solar generation. Under the new presidential  

 3   
 administration, there is potential for the implementation of national renewable standards, which are expected to set a target of generating at least 10% of the nation’s electricity from renewables by 2012 and 25% by 2025. We believe that our comprehensive services, industry knowledge and experience in the design, installation and maintenance of renewable facilities will enable us to support our customers’ renewable energy efforts.  

 The latter part of 2008 experienced a slowdown in renewable spending, due in part to the economic downturn as well as the outcome of potential new legislation. The signing of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) in February 2009 resolved some of the legislative uncertainty by the extension of renewable tax credits through 2012 for producing wind energy. Industry experts anticipate that this extension will stabilize the market and encourage ongoing investment related to renewable energy facilities, although investment may continue to be negatively impacted by constraints on capital for new projects as a result of unfavorable economic and market conditions.  

 Increased demand calls for new generation sources and related connectivity to the grid. As we discuss above, demand for power is increasing. As demand for power grows, the need for new power generation sources will grow as well. There is an increased focus on the development of renewable power sources such as wind, solar and hydro electric. However, as renewable power resources will only fulfill a portion of the increased demand in the future, we also expect a continuation of new power generation based on traditional resources, such as natural gas. The future development of new power generation sources will require connectivity to the grid to transport power to demand centers. Renewable energy in particular will require significant transmission infrastructure due to the often remote location of renewable sources of energy. As a result, we anticipate that future development of new power generation will lead to increased demand over the long-term for our transmission and substation engineering and installation services.  

 The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other legislative initiatives. We expect the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Act), which was enacted in August 2005, to result in increased spending by the power industry over the next decade. Since enactment, several aspects of the Energy Act have come into effect and, as a result, have better positioned utilities to finance and implement system enhancements. The objectives of the Energy Act include improving the nation’s electric transmission capacity and reliability and promoting investment in the nation’s energy infrastructure. It provides for a self-regulating reliability organization to implement and enforce mandatory reliability standards on all market participants, with oversight by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). FERC has issued rules to provide a more favorable return on equity for transmission system owners, and it has approved incentive rates to encourage transmission expansion and help ensure reliability in certain regions of the nation.  

 We anticipate that aspects of the Energy Act will make investment in the nation’s transmission system more attractive and lead to a streamlined permitting process. For example, the Energy Act provides for the designation of National Interest Electric Transmission Corridors (NIETCs) to facilitate siting of new transmission infrastructure. In October 2007, the Department of Energy (DOE) designated two NIETCs — the Mid-Atlantic Area National Corridor and the Southwest Area National Corridor. These NIETCs include two of the nation’s most populated regions with major transmission congestion — the Northeast/Mid-Atlantic region and the Southwest region. The NIETCs will be in effect for 12 years to give regional transmission owners and utilities time to evaluate, plan, and build additional transmission infrastructure in the NIETCs. In addition, FERC was given “backstop” authority to issue permits to construct or modify electric transmission facilities in the NIETCs under certain circumstances, and in November 2006, it issued a final rule specifying the requirements and procedures for invoking this backstop authority. However, both DOE’s NIETC designations and FERC’s final rule regarding permitting have been challenged and are currently subject to review in various federal courts. In one such case, decided in February 2009, a federal court of appeals vacated FERC’s interpretation of the scope of its backstop siting authority. Accordingly, the long-term effect of DOE’s NIETC designations and the transmission siting rules will depend on the results of the remaining challenges, possible further revisions to various federal regulations or new legislation that may more clearly define the scope of FERC’s transmission siting authority.  

 4   
 We also expect that certain provisions of the ARRA will create demand for our services over the long-term. This $787 billion economic stimulus package consists of approximately $506 billion in spending and approximately $281 billion in tax cuts and tax credits that are intended to create jobs and improve the economy. Several of the ARRA’s provisions include incentives for investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency and related infrastructure, such as the extension of certain tax incentives for renewable energy projects, loan guarantees for the construction of renewable energy systems and electric power transmission and funds for modernization of the electric grid. The stimulus package also includes funding for the deployment of high-speed internet to rural areas that lack sufficient bandwidth to adequately support economic development, as well as funding to states for restoration, repair and construction of highways, which may create the need for relocation and upgrade of electric power, telecommunications and natural gas infrastructure. While we cannot predict the timing of when investments related to these initiatives will occur or the scope of the investments that may be made, we anticipate that certain of the ARRA initiatives will positively impact demand for our services in the future.  

 Increased outsourcing of network infrastructure installation and maintenance. We believe that electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television providers are increasingly focusing on their core competencies, resulting in an increase in the outsourcing of network services. Total employment in the electric utility industry declined substantially in the last decade, reflecting, in part, the outsourcing trend by utilities. We believe that by outsourcing network services to third-party service providers such as us, our customers can reduce costs, provide flexibility in budgets and improve service and performance.  

 One of the largest issues facing utilities is the aging of the workforce. NERC estimates that approximately one in three utility workers will be 50 or older by 2010, yet there will be a 25% increase in demand for electricity by 2015. Many utilities look to a third-party partner to help address this issue. With more than 14,000 employees across the nation, we believe we are well-positioned to provide skilled labor to supplement or completely outsource a utility’s workforce. As a specialty contractor with nationwide scope, we are able to leverage our existing labor force and equipment infrastructure across multiple customers and projects, resulting in better utilization of labor and assets.  

 Continuing opportunities in Fiber to the Premises, or FTTP, and Fiber to the Node, or FTTN. We believe that several of the large telecommunications companies remain committed to the build-out of their FTTP and FTTN initiatives over the long-term, despite the recent slow-down in deployment. Initiatives for the last-mile fiber build-out have been announced by Verizon and AT&T as well as municipalities throughout the United States. At the end of 2008, Verizon reported that it had passed 12 million premises and indicated that it expects to pass 18 million premises with its fiber network by the end of 2010, including three million during 2009. This 2010 goal equates to more than 50% of the households in Verizon’s 28-state area.  

 At the end of 2008, AT&T had passed 17 million premises with fiber that can deliver its U-verse suite of services, which includes internet protocol (IP)-based television, high-speed internet access and voice services. AT&T had also secured approximately one million U-verse customers by the end of 2008.  

 The fiber installed by telecommunication companies will deliver integrated IP-based television, high-speed internet and IP voice and wireless bundles of products and services. More than three million North American households have subscribed to high-speed fiber network services. We believe the rate of growth in fiber to the home connections will continue to increase as more Americans look to next-generation networks for faster internet and more robust video services, although we cannot predict the impact that the current economic conditions will have on the timing or amount of this growth.  

 While not all of the spending in the FTTP and FTTN initiatives will be for services that we provide, we believe that we are well-positioned to furnish infrastructure solutions for these initiatives throughout the United States. We expect these initiatives to result in an increase in demand for our telecommunications and underground construction services over the next several years, although this demand has been, and will likely continue to be, negatively impacted by reductions in spending due to the economic downturn and volatility in the capital markets. This impact on demand is reflected in the slow-down that we have seen in FTTP and FTTN deployment since the second quarter of 2008.  

 5   
 Strengths  

 Geographic reach and significant size and scale. As a result of our nationwide operations and significant scale, we are able to deploy services to customers across the United States. This capability is particularly important to our customers who operate networks that span multiple states or regions. The scale of our operations also allows us to mobilize significant numbers of employees on short notice for emergency restoration services, as well as reallocate certain of our resources from declining markets to growth opportunities.  

 Strong financial profile. Our strong liquidity position provides us with the flexibility to capitalize on new business and growth opportunities. We believe our strong financial condition is viewed favorably by our existing and potential customers and will also enable us to better navigate a challenging economic environment. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $437.9 million, working capital of $929.7 million and long-term debt of $143.8 million. We also have a $475.0 million credit facility under which we had available borrowing capacity of $314.8 million as of December 31, 2008.  

 Strong and diverse customer relationships. Our customer relationships extend over multiple end markets and include electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. We have established a solid base of long-standing customer relationships by providing high quality services in a cost-efficient and timely manner. Many of our customer relationships are multi-year and, in some cases, decades old. We believe our strong and diverse customer relationships offer opportunities for future growth.  

 Delivery of comprehensive and diverse solutions. We believe that electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies will continue to seek service providers who can design, install and maintain their networks on a quick and reliable, yet cost effective basis. We are one of the few network service providers capable of regularly delivering complete solutions on a nationwide basis. As companies in the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries continue to search for service providers who can effectively design, install and maintain their networks, we believe that our service, industry and geographical breadth places us in a strong position to meet these needs.  

 Proprietary technology. Our electric power customers benefit from our ability to perform services without interrupting power service to their customers, which we refer to as energized services. We hold a U.S. patent protecting our exclusive use through 2014 of our LineMastertm robotic arm, which enhances our ability to deliver these energized services to our customers. We also hold certain international patents for the LineMastertm and U.S. and international patents protecting other robotic arm technologies for various periods up to 2024, as well as U.S. and international pending patent applications for certain energized methodologies. We believe that delivery of energized services is a significant factor in differentiating us from our competition and winning new business. Our energized services workforce is specially trained to deliver these services and operate the LineMastertm robotic arm.  

 Experienced management team. Our executive management team has an average of 33 years of experience within the contracting industry, and our operating unit executives’ average over 26 years of experience in their respective industries.  

 Strategy  

 The key elements of our business strategy are:  

 Capitalize on favorable trends in certain key end markets. We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalize on future capital spending by customers across certain key end markets. Our strong and diverse customer relationships, geographic reach and financial strength should allow us to benefit from investments over the long-term by, among others, electric power customers in transmission, distribution and renewable energy infrastructure.  

 Leverage existing customer relationships and expand services to drive growth. We believe we can improve our rate of growth by expanding the portfolio of services and solutions we provide to our existing and  

 6   
 potential customer base. Expanding our portfolio of services allows us to develop, build and maintain networks on a regional, national and international scale and adapt to our customers’ changing needs. We believe that increasing our geographic and technological capabilities, together with promoting best practices and cross-selling our services to our customers, positions us well to capitalize upon opportunities and trends in the industries we serve.  

 Focus on expanding operating efficiencies. We intend to continue to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Pursue strategic acquisitions. We continue to evaluate potential acquisitions of companies with strong management teams and good reputations to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation and grow our portfolio of services. During 2007 and 2008 and from 1998 through 2000, we grew significantly through acquisitions. We believe that attractive acquisition candidates still exist as a result of the highly fragmented nature of the industry, the inability of many companies to expand and modernize due to capital constraints and the desire of owners of acquisition candidates for liquidity. We also believe that our financial strength and experienced management team will be attractive to acquisition candidates.  

 Pursue new business opportunities. We continuously leverage our core expertise and pursue new business opportunities, including renewable energy projects, gas gathering and pipeline installations and in the government and international arenas. In connection with renewable energy projects, we have the capabilities to design, install and maintain the facilities as well as provide connectivity to the grid. We also believe that we are well-positioned to participate in power and communications infrastructure projects for the public sector and overseas.  

 Expand our dark fiber network. We intend to continue to expand our dark fiber network in select markets. Approximately $85.0 million of our capital spending for 2009 is targeted for the expansion of our dark fiber network.  

 Services  

 We design, install and maintain networks for the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries as well as provide various ancillary services to commercial, industrial and governmental entities. The following provides an overview of the types of services we provide:  

 Infrastructure Services Segment  

 Electric power network services. We provide a variety of end-to-end services to the electric power industry, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 7   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Gas network services. We provide various services to the natural gas industry, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Telecommunications and cable television network services. Our telecommunications and cable television network services include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 8   
 Ancillary services. We provide a variety of comprehensive ancillary services to commercial, industrial and governmental entities, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Dark Fiber Segment  

 We provide comprehensive services related to fiber-optic telecommunications facilities, including:  

    •   design, procurement and construction of fiber-optic telecommunications facilities, with ownership retained by us;   

    •   licensing the right to use a portion of the capacity of the fiber-optic telecommunications facilities; and   

    •   ongoing maintenance of fiber-optic telecommunications facilities licensed to customers.    

 Financial Information about Geographic Areas  

 We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived $53.6 million, $71.5 million and $98.8 million of our revenues from foreign operations, the majority of which was earned in Canada, during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. In addition, we held property and equipment in the amount of $6.0 million, $9.0 million and $6.5 million in foreign countries as of December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively.  

 Our business, financial condition and results of operations in foreign countries may be adversely impacted by monetary and fiscal policies, currency fluctuations, energy shortages, regulatory requirements and other political, social and economic developments or instability.  

 Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider Relationships  

 Our customers include electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. Our 10 largest customers accounted for 30.3% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2008. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 4.4% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 Although we have a centralized marketing strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. Our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. Many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. On an operating unit level, management maintains a parallel focus on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective customers. We continue to encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of other operating units to their customers. In addition, our business development group promotes and markets our services for prospective large national accounts and projects that would require services from multiple operating units.  

 We strive to maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. Many of our customers and prospective customers maintain a list of preferred vendors with whom the customer enters into a formal contractual agreement as a result of a request-for-proposal process. As a preferred vendor, we have met  

 9   
 minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintain a high level of performance and agree to certain payment terms and negotiated rates.  

 We believe that our strategic relationships with large providers of electric power and telecommunications services will continue to result in future opportunities. Many of these strategic relationships take the form of a strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreement. Strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. Strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years that may include an option to add extensions at the end of the initial term. Certain of our strategic alliance and long-term maintenance agreements are “evergreen” contracts with exclusivity clauses providing that we will be awarded all contracts, or a right of first refusal, for a certain type of work or work in a certain geographic region.  

 Backlog  

 Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Our backlog at December 31, 2006 was approximately $1.48 billion based only on work expected to be performed over the next twelve months. At that time, we did not include estimated revenues beyond twelve months in our calculations. Our total backlog at December 31, 2007 was approximately $4.67 billion, of which $2.36 billion was expected to be realized over the next twelve months, while our total backlog at December 31, 2008 was approximately $5.19 billion, of which $2.58 billion is expected to be realized over the next twelve months.  

 The backlog estimates above include amounts under long-term maintenance contracts in addition to construction contracts. We determine the amount of work under long-term maintenance contracts, or master service agreements (MSAs), to be disclosed as backlog as the estimate of future work to be performed by using recurring historical trends inherent in the current MSAs, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. In many instances, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and many of our contracts may be terminated with notice. There can be no assurance as to our customer’s requirements or that our estimates are accurate. In addition, many of our MSAs, as well as contracts for dark fiber leasing, are subject to renewal options. For purposes of calculating backlog, we have included future renewal options only to the extent the renewals can reasonably be expected to occur.  

 Competition  

 The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large domestic companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. We believe that as demand for our services increases, customers will increasingly consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. There can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We may also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, gas, telecommunications, cable television and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. Although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by our customers, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future.  

 10   
 Employees  

 As of December 31, 2008, we had 2,117 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and 12,634 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. Approximately 45% of our hourly employees at December 31, 2008 were covered by collective bargaining agreements with certain of our subsidiaries, primarily with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW). These collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than administering the funds on behalf of these employees. These collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. The majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement.  

 We provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law.  

 Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. In response to the shortage, we seek to take advantage of various IBEW and National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) training programs and support the joint IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program which trains qualified electrical workers. We have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor for employees not subject to the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs.  

 We believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good.  

 Materials  

 Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. We purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any difficulties in procuring such materials.  

 Training, Quality Assurance and Safety  

 Performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. Although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. Our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program or our equivalent programs. Under the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 200 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. Certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program. Our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations.  

 11   
 Regulation  

 Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 We believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses.  

 Environmental Matters  

 We are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water and groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

 From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We believe we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.  

 Risk Management and Insurance  

 We are insured for employer’s liability claims, subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, and for general liability and auto liability subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence. We are also insured for workers’ compensation claims, subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers’ compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year.  

 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. As of December 31, 2007 and 2008, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $152.0 million and $147.9 million, with  

 12   
 $110.1 million and $105.0 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2007 and 2008 were $22.1 million and $12.5 million, of which $11.9 million and $7.2 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $10.2 million and $5.3 million are included in other assets, net.  

 Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 has experienced financial distress. Effective September 29, 2008, Quanta consummated a novation transaction that released this distressed casualty insurance carrier from all further obligations in connection with the policies in effect during that period in exchange for the payment to us of an agreed amount. Our current casualty insurance carrier assumed all obligations under the policies in effect during that period; however, we are obligated to indemnify the carrier in full for any liabilities under the policies assumed. At December 31, 2008, we estimate that the total future claim amounts associated with the novated policies was $6.8 million, based on an estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts at December 31, 2008 of between $2.0 million and $8.0 million. The actual amounts ultimately paid by us in connection with these claims, if any, could vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development.  

 Seasonality and Cyclicality  

 Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project schedules and timing and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays. The second quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. The third quarter is typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are typically lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter and revenues often are impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budget before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather sometimes can cause delays and thereby reduce revenues and increase costs.  

 Working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased construction in weather affected regions of the country. Conversely, working capital assets are typically converted to cash during the winter months.  

 Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the United States. Project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided under projects, which may adversely affect us in a given quarter. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs, interest rate fluctuations and other factors may also materially affect our quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter or year may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for any other year. An investor should read “Understanding Gross Margins” and “Outlook” included in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 Website Access and Other Information  

 Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. You may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading “SEC Filings” or through the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) at www.sec.gov. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance and Nominating Committee are posted on our website  

 13   
 under the heading “Corporate Governance.” We intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. You may obtain free copies of these items from our website or by contacting our Corporate Secretary. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. We cannot assure you that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. No information on our website is incorporated by reference herein.  

 Annual CEO Certification  

 As required by New York Stock Exchange rules, on June 9, 2008, we submitted an annual certification signed by our Chief Executive Officer certifying that he was not aware of any violation by us of New York Stock Exchange corporate governance listing standards as of the date of the certification.  

  ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors