ITEM 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those identified in “Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information” below and in Item 1A “Risk Factors.”  

 Introduction  

 We are a leading national provider of specialty contracting services. On January 1, 2008, we began reporting our results under two business segments. The infrastructure services (Infrastructure Services) segment provides specialized contracting services, offering end-to-end network solutions to the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries. Specifically, the comprehensive services provided by the Infrastructure Services segment include designing, installing, repairing and maintaining network infrastructure, as well as certain ancillary services. Additionally, the dark fiber (Dark Fiber) segment designs, procures, constructs and maintains fiber-optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and licenses the right to use point-to-point fiber-optic telecommunications facilities to our customers. The Dark Fiber segment services educational institutions, large industrial and financial services customers and other entities with high bandwidth telecommunication needs. The telecommunication services provided through this business are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and certain state public utility commissions.  

 On August 30, 2007, we acquired, through a merger transaction (the Merger), all of the outstanding common stock of InfraSource Services, Inc. (InfraSource). Similar to us, InfraSource provided design, procurement, construction, testing and maintenance services to electric power utilities, natural gas utilities, telecommunication customers, government entities and heavy industrial companies, such as petrochemical, processing and refining businesses, primarily in the United States. As a result of the Merger, we enhanced and expanded our position as a leading specialized contracting services company serving the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries and added the Dark Fiber segment.  

 We had consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 of approximately $3.78 billion, of which 56.8% was attributable to electric power work, 20.8% to gas work, 14.2% to telecommunications and cable television work and 6.6% to ancillary services, such as inside electrical wiring, intelligent traffic networks, fueling systems, cable and control systems for light rail lines, airports and highways and specialty rock trenching, directional boring and road milling for industrial and commercial customers. In addition, 1.6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008 was generated by our Dark Fiber segment.  

 Our customers include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. We have developed strong strategic alliances with numerous customers and strive to develop and maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. In our Infrastructure Services segment, we enter into various types of contracts,  

 33   
 including competitive unit price, hourly rate, cost-plus (or time and materials basis), and fixed price (or lump sum basis), the final terms and prices of which we frequently negotiate with the customer. Although the terms of our contracts vary considerably, most are made on either a unit price or fixed price basis in which we agree to do the work for a price per unit of work performed (unit price) or for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed price). We complete a substantial majority of our fixed price projects within one year, while we frequently provide maintenance and repair work under open-ended unit price or cost-plus master service agreements that are renewable annually.  

 For our Infrastructure Services segment, we recognize revenue on our unit price and cost-plus contracts when units are completed or services are performed. For our fixed price contracts, we record revenues as work on the contract progresses on a percentage-of-completion basis. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract. Fixed price contracts generally include retainage provisions under which a percentage of the contract price is withheld until the project is complete and has been accepted by our customer.  

 The Dark Fiber segment constructs and licenses the right to use fiber-optic telecommunications facilities to our customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber-optic facility, with the facility owned and maintained by us. Revenues earned pursuant to these fiber-optic facility licensing agreements, including any initial fees or advanced billings, are recognized ratably over the expected length of the agreements, including probable renewal periods.  

 We recognize that we and our customers are operating in a challenging business environment in light of the economic downturn and volatile capital markets. We are closely monitoring our customers and the effect that changes in economic and market conditions may have on them. We believe that our customers, many of whom are regulated utilities, remain financially stable in general, and many of our customers may be able to continue with their business plans without substantial constraints. While our business was not significantly impacted by the negative economic and market conditions in 2008, we expect these conditions may negatively impact demand for our services in the near-term until these conditions significantly improve.  

 Seasonality; Fluctuations of Results  

 Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project schedules and timing and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays. The second quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. The third quarter is typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are typically lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budget before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather sometimes can cause delays and thereby reduce revenues and increase costs.  

 Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the United States. Project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided under projects, which may adversely affect us in a given quarter. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular quarter, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition assimilation costs and interest rate fluctuations may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter or year may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other quarter or for any other year. You should read “Outlook” and “Understanding Gross Margins” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 34   
 Understanding Gross Margins  

 Our gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenues. Cost of services, which is subtracted from revenues to obtain gross profit, consists primarily of salaries, wages and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other equipment expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services, insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and supplies. Various factors — some controllable, some not — impact our gross margins on a quarterly or annual basis.  

 Seasonal and Geographical. As discussed above, seasonal patterns can have a significant impact on gross margins. Generally, business is slower in the winter months versus the warmer months of the year. This can be offset somewhat by increased demand for electrical service and repair work resulting from severe weather. In addition, the mix of business conducted in different parts of the country will affect margins, as some parts of the country offer the opportunity for higher gross margins than others.  

 Weather. Adverse or favorable weather conditions can impact gross margins in a given period. For example, it is typical in the first quarter of any fiscal year that parts of the country may experience snow or rainfall that may negatively impact our revenues and gross margin due to reduced productivity. In many cases, projects may be delayed or temporarily placed on hold. Conversely, in periods when weather remains dry and temperatures are accommodating, more work can be done, sometimes with less cost, which would have a favorable impact on gross margins. In some cases, severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, can provide us with higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on margins.  

 Revenue Mix. The mix of revenues derived from the industries we serve will impact gross margins, as certain industries provide higher margin opportunities. Additionally, changes in our customers’ spending patterns in each of the industries we serve can cause an imbalance in supply and demand and, therefore, affect margins and mix of revenues by industry served.  

 Service and Maintenance versus Installation. Installation work is often obtained on a fixed price basis, while maintenance work is often performed under pre-established or negotiated prices or cost-plus pricing arrangements. Gross margins for installation work may vary from project to project, and can be higher than maintenance work, because work obtained on a fixed price basis has higher risk than other types of pricing arrangements. We typically derive approximately 50% of our annual revenues from maintenance work, but a higher portion of installation work in any given period may affect our gross margins for that period.  

 Subcontract Work. Work that is subcontracted to other service providers generally yields lower gross margins. An increase in subcontract work in a given period may contribute to a decrease in gross margin. We typically subcontract approximately 10% to 15% of our work to other service providers.  

 Materials versus Labor. Margins may be lower on projects on which we furnish materials as our mark-up on materials is generally lower than on labor costs. In a given period, a higher percentage of work that has a higher materials component may decrease overall gross margin.  

 Depreciation. We include depreciation in cost of services. This is common practice in our industry, but it can make comparability to other companies difficult. This must be taken into consideration when comparing us to other companies.  

 Insurance. Gross margins could be impacted by fluctuations in insurance accruals as additional claims arise and as circumstances and conditions of existing claims change. We are insured for employer’s liability claims, subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, and for general liability and auto liability subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence. We are also insured for workers’ compensation claims, subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers’ compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year.  

 35   
 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related benefits to management, administrative salaries and benefits, marketing, office rent and utilities, communications, professional fees, bad debt expense, letter of credit fees and gains and losses on the sale of property and equipment.  

 Results of Operations  

 In accordance with SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” the results of operations data below does not reflect the operations of Environmental Professional Associates, Limited (EPA) in any periods since EPA’s results of operations are reflected as a discontinued operation in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, the 2006 amounts below do not agree to the amounts originally reported. The following table sets forth selected statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenues for the years indicated (dollars in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2008 compared to 2007  

 Revenues. Revenues increased $1.12 billion, or 42.3%, to $3.78 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. Electric power services increased by approximately $637.1 million, or 42.2%, gas services increased by approximately $427.4 million, or 119.7%, and telecommunications and cable television network services increased by approximately $92.1 million, or 20.8%. In addition to the contribution of revenues from the InfraSource operating units acquired through the Merger, revenues were favorably impacted by an increase of approximately $76.8 million in emergency restoration services, from approximately $130.9 million in 2007 to approximately $207.7 million in 2008, due primarily to the impact of hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. Additionally, revenues increased due to an increased number and size of projects as a result of larger capital budgets for our customers, specifically in connection with electric transmission projects and certain natural gas transmission projects, as well as improved pricing. Lastly, revenues increased due to the impact of $44.9 million in additional revenues in 2008 from the Dark Fiber segment acquired as part of the Merger. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in ancillary services revenues of approximately  

 36   
 $77.4 million, or 23.6%, primarily due to declines in the housing market, the timing of projects and more selectivity in projects bid, as well as resources being utilized for projects in other types of work.  

 Gross profit. Gross profit increased $206.1 million, or 48.1%, to $634.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in gross profit results primarily from the contribution of the InfraSource operating units acquired through the Merger coupled with the effect of the increased revenues discussed above. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin increased from 16.1% in 2007 to 16.8% in 2008. The gross margin was positively impacted in 2008 as compared to 2007 by improved pricing, an increase in the amount of emergency restoration services, as discussed above, which typically generate higher margins, the contribution of the higher margin Dark Fiber segment acquired as part of the Merger and better fixed costs absorption as a result of higher revenues. These positive factors were partially offset by declines in margins derived from telecommunications and ancillary revenues due to losses on a telecommunication project and certain intelligent traffic network projects during the third and fourth quarters of 2008.  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $68.9 million, or 28.6%, to $309.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily a result of the addition of administrative expenses associated with the InfraSource operating units acquired through the Merger, as well as higher salaries and benefits associated with increased personnel, salary increases and increased performance bonuses. Bad debt expense increased $6.0 million in 2008 to $7.3 million primarily due to the economic downturn and volatile capital markets experienced during the second half of 2008. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from 9.0% in 2007 to 8.2% in 2008 primarily due to improved cost absorption as a result of higher revenues.  

 Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased $17.5 million to $36.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase is attributable to the amortization of intangible assets associated with acquisitions completed since the beginning of 2007, primarily the acquisition of InfraSource completed on August 30, 2007.  

 Interest expense. Interest expense decreased $4.0 million to $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, due to the conversion, redemption or repurchase of all of the remaining 4.5% convertible subordinated notes on or before October 8, 2008 and the maturity and repayment of the remaining 4.0% convertible subordinated notes on July 2, 2007.  

 Interest income. Interest income was $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in interest income primarily relates to a lower average investment balance and lower average interest rates for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $115.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, with an effective tax rate of 40.8%, compared to a provision of $34.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, with an effective tax rate of 20.4%. The lower effective tax rate for 2007 resulted from $34.4 million of tax benefits recorded in 2007 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the settlement of a multi-year Internal Revenue Service audit in the first quarter of 2007 and the expiration of various federal and state tax statutes of limitations during the third quarter of 2007. Excluding the tax benefits, the effective tax rate would have been 41.0% for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 2007 compared to 2006  

 Revenues. Revenues increased $546.4 million, or 25.9%, to $2.66 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. Of the $546.4 million increase, approximately $348.4 million relates to revenues of the InfraSource operating units acquired through the Merger for the period from September 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. The remaining $198.0 million increase is due primarily to electric power services increasing by approximately $157.3 million, or 13.7%, and telecommunications and cable television network services increasing by approximately $46.9 million, or 12.9%, offset by a slight decrease in gas and ancillary  

 37   
 services. The increase in electric power services work is primarily due to the increased number and size of projects that are a result of larger capital budgets for our customers, approximately $24.9 million in additional emergency restoration service work, and improved pricing. Revenues from telecommunications and cable television services increased primarily due to increased services related to fiber to the premises initiatives and improved pricing.  

 Gross profit. Gross profit increased $116.0 million, or 37.1%, to $428.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Of the $116.0 million increase, approximately $61.0 million relates to gross profit of the InfraSource operating units acquired in the Merger for the period September 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. The additional $54.9 million increase in gross profit resulted primarily from increased margins associated with generally improved pricing for our services, higher productivity and good weather that favorably impacted projects in the Northeast during the summer months, higher volumes of emergency restoration service work and better absorption of fixed costs. These positive effects were partially offset by lower productivity on certain projects due to heavy rainfall in the south central United States during the second quarter of 2007 and early part of the third quarter of 2007.  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $59.0 million, or 32.5%, to $240.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 8.6% in 2006 to 9.0% in 2007. Of the $59.0 million increase, $28.9 million relates to selling, general and administrative expenses of the InfraSource operating units acquired in the Merger for the period of September 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007. The remaining $30.1 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses resulted in part from $11.2 million in increased salaries and benefits costs associated with additional personnel, salary increases and higher performance bonuses, $5.2 million in increased professional fees primarily associated with ongoing litigation costs and $2.4 million in third-party integration costs that were incurred in 2007 as part of the InfraSource acquisition. Also included were $5.3 million in net losses on sales of equipment during 2007, as compared to $0.7 million in net gains on sales of equipment in 2006. Included in the $5.3 million in net losses in 2007 was an impairment charge of $3.5 million for assets held for sale as of December 31, 2007. As part of the Merger, management identified excess equipment among the combined operations and determined that this equipment would not be placed back into service. Additionally, we had increases in travel costs of $1.8 million and facilities costs of $1.7 million.  

 Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased $18.4 million to $18.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. This increase is attributable to the amortization of intangible assets associated with acquisitions completed in 2007, primarily the acquisition of InfraSource.  

 Goodwill impairment. A goodwill impairment charge in the amount of $56.8 million was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2006, while no goodwill impairment was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2007. As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which historically served the cable television industry.  

 Interest expense. Interest expense decreased $5.3 million to $21.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, due partially to the expensing of unamortized debt issuance costs of $3.3 million during 2006 as a result of replacing our prior credit facility in June 2006 and repurchasing 80.7% of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes in the second quarter of 2006. The 3.75% convertible subordinated notes issued in the second quarter of 2006 have a lower interest rate than the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes. Additionally, interest expense decreased as a result of the maturity and repayment of the remaining 4.0% convertible subordinated notes on July 2, 2007.  

 Interest income. Interest income was $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to $13.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase in interest income primarily relates to a higher average investment balance and higher average interest rates for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006.  

 38   
 Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $34.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, with an effective tax rate of 20.4%, compared to a provision of $47.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, with an effective tax rate of 74.3%. The lower effective tax rate for 2007 results from $34.4 million of tax benefits recorded in 2007 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the settlement of a multi-year Internal Revenue Service audit in the first quarter of 2007 and the expiration of various federal and state tax statutes of limitations during the third quarter of 2007. Excluding the tax benefits, the effective tax rate would have been 41.0% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The higher tax rate in 2006 results primarily from the goodwill impairment charge recorded during the fourth quarter of 2006, the majority of which is not deductible for tax purposes. Excluding the effect of the goodwill impairment charge, the effective tax rate would have been 39.2% for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Cash Requirements  

 We anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, which totaled $437.9 million as of December 31, 2008, existing borrowing capacity under our credit facility, and our future cash flows from operations will provide sufficient funds to enable us to meet our future operating needs, debt service requirements and planned capital expenditures, as well as facilitate our ability to grow in the foreseeable future. Management assesses our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing and financing activities. Increased demand for services resulting from, for example, initiatives to rebuild the United States electric power grid or support renewable energy projects may require a significant amount of additional working capital. We also evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions from time to time that may require cash.  

 Although recent distress in the financial markets has not had a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008, management continues to monitor the financial markets and general national and global economic conditions. If further changes in financial markets or other areas of the economy adversely impacted our ability to access capital markets, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash and borrowing capacity under our credit facility to provide short-term funding. We consider our cash investment policies to be conservative in that we maintain a diverse portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality cash investments with short-term maturities. We were in compliance with our covenants under our credit facility at December 31, 2008. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that the current volatility in the capital markets will have a material impact on the principal amounts of our cash investments or our ability to rely upon our existing credit facility for funds. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our invested cash or cash equivalents; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.  

 Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $180 million for 2009. Approximately $85 million of the expected 2009 capital expenditures are targeted for the expansion of our dark fiber network, primarily in connection with committed customer arrangements, with the majority of the remaining expenditures for operating equipment in the Infrastructure Services segment.  

 Our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) are not presently convertible into our common stock, although they have been convertible in certain prior quarters as a result of the satisfaction of the market price condition described in further detail in “Debt Instruments — 3.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes” below. The 3.75% Notes could become convertible in future periods upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. If any holder of the convertible notes requests to convert their notes, we have the option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, with the amount of cash determined in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the notes were issued.  

 39   
 Sources and Uses of Cash  

 As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $437.9 million, working capital of $929.7 million and long-term debt of $143.8 million, net of current maturities. We also had $160.2 million of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility, leaving $314.8 million available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit.  

 Operating Activities  

 Cash flow from operations is primarily influenced by demand for our services, operating margins and the type of services we provide but can also be influenced by working capital needs such as the timing of collection of receivables. Working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased services in weather affected regions of the country. Conversely, working capital assets are typically converted to cash during the winter months. Operating activities provided net cash to us of $242.5 million during 2008 as compared to $219.2 million and $120.6 million during 2007 and 2006. The increase in operating cash flows in 2008 as compared to 2007 relates primarily to higher levels of income due to year over year growth and contributions from higher profit margins, and was largely offset by increased accounts receivable at December 31, 2008, which resulted in part from the timing of collections that occurred shortly after year-end. Accounts receivable also included larger retainage balances on certain projects that were billed and collected in 2009.  

 The increase in operating cash flows in 2007 as compared to 2006 relates primarily to the growth in net income and revenues as a result of the Merger and internal growth as described above.  

 Investing Activities  

 During 2008, we used net cash in investing activities of $219.3 million as compared to $120.6 million and $38.5 million used in investing activities in 2007 and 2006. Investing activities in 2008 included $185.6 million used for capital expenditures, partially offset by $15.4 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. During 2007 and 2006, we used $127.9 and $48.5 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by $27.5 million and $10.0 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. The increase in capital expenditures of $57.7 million in 2008 compared to 2007 and $79.5 million in 2007 compared to 2006 are related primarily to the growth in our business and capital expenditure requirements as a result of the Merger, primarily from our Dark Fiber segment, which expended $99.6 million and $23.7 million during 2008 and 2007. Investing activities during 2008 also include $34.5 million in net cash outlays for three acquisitions and $14.6 million paid to secure patents and developed technology. Quanta made four acquisitions during 2007, including the Merger. Investing cash flows in 2007 include $20.1 million in net cash outlay for these acquisitions, including $12.1 million of acquisition expenses related to the Merger. Investing activities in 2006 and the first quarter of 2007 included purchases and sales of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), which are classified as short-term investments, available for sale when held. We did not invest in VRDNs after the first quarter of 2007.  

 Financing Activities  

 In 2008, financing activities provided net cash of $8.2 million as compared to $78.9 million and $2.7 million used in financing activities in 2007 and 2006. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 resulted primarily from $6.0 million received from the exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities in 2007 resulted primarily from a $60.5 million repayment of debt associated with the Merger and a $33.3 million repayment of the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes. The $2.7 million net use of cash in 2006 resulted primarily from a repayment of $7.5 million under the term loan portion of our prior credit facility coupled with $6.0 million in debt issuance costs, partially offset by $5.8 million in net borrowings and certain activity related to stock compensation. The $5.8 million in net borrowings primarily relates to the issuance of $143.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes and the repurchase through a tender offer of $137.1 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.0% convertible subordinated notes.  

 40   
 Debt Instruments  

 Credit Facility  

 We have a credit facility with various lenders that provides for a $475.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility maturing on September 19, 2012. Borrowings under the credit facility are to be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The entire unused portion of the credit facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit.  

 As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $160.2 million of letters of credit issued under the credit facility and no outstanding revolving loans. The remaining $314.8 million was available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit. Amounts borrowed under the credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either (a) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 0.875% to 1.75%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility), or (b) the base rate (as described below) plus 0.00% to 0.75%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. Letters of credit issued under the credit facility are subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.875% to 1.75%, based on the ratio of Quanta’s total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. We are also subject to a commitment fee of 0.15% to 0.35%, based on the ratio of its total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA, on any unused availability under the credit facility. The base rate equals the higher of (i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 1/2 of 1% or (ii) the bank’s prime rate.  

 The credit facility contains certain covenants, including covenants with respect to maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA, maximum senior debt to consolidated EBITDA and minimum interest coverage, in each case as specified in the credit facility. For purposes of calculating the maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio and the maximum senior debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio, our maximum funded debt and maximum senior debt are reduced by all cash and cash equivalents (as defined in the credit facility) held by us in excess of $25.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all of its covenants. The credit facility limits certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, capital expenditures, asset sales and prepayments of indebtedness and, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits liens on material assets. The credit facility also limits the payment of dividends and stock repurchase programs in any fiscal year except those payments or other distributions payable solely in capital stock. The credit facility provides for customary events of default and carries cross-default provisions with all of our existing subordinated notes, our continuing indemnity and security agreement with our sureties and all of our other debt instruments exceeding $15.0 million in borrowings. If an event of default (as defined in the credit facility) occurs and is continuing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the credit facility, amounts outstanding under the credit facility may be accelerated and may become or be declared immediately due and payable.  

 The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all of the capital stock of our U.S. subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets. Our U.S. subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of all amounts due under the credit facility. Our obligations under the credit facility constitute designated senior indebtedness under our 3.75% Notes.  

 4.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 During the first half of 2007, we had outstanding $33.3 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% convertible subordinated notes due 2007 (4.0% Notes), which matured on July 1, 2007. The outstanding principal balance of the 4.0% Notes plus accrued interest was repaid on July 2, 2007, the first business day after the maturity date.  

 4.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 At December 31, 2008, none of our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2023 (4.5% Notes) were outstanding. The 4.5% Notes were originally issued in October 2003 for an aggregate principal amount of $270.0 million and required semi-annual interest payments on April 1 and October 1 until maturity. The resale of the 4.5% Notes and the shares issuable upon their conversion was registered for the benefit of the holders on a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC.  

 41   
 The indenture under which the 4.5% Notes was issued provided the holders of the notes the right to require us to repurchase in cash, on October 1, 2008, all or some of their notes at the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. As a result of this repurchase right, we reclassified approximately $270.0 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of the 4.5% Notes as a current obligation in October 2007.  

 The indenture also provided that, beginning October 8, 2008, we had the right to redeem for cash some or all of the 4.5% Notes at the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest. On August 27, 2008, we notified the registered holders of the 4.5% Notes that we would redeem the notes on October 8, 2008. Upon notification of the redemption and until October 6, 2008, the holders of the 4.5% Notes had the right to convert all or a portion of the principal amount of their notes to shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 89.7989 shares of common stock for each $1,000 principal amount of notes converted, which equates to a conversion price of $11.14 per share.  

 During 2008, the holders of $269.8 million aggregate principal amount of the 4.5% Notes elected to convert their notes, resulting in the issuance of 24,229,781 shares of our common stock, substantially all of which followed the redemption notice. We also repurchased $106,000 aggregate principal amount of the 4.5% Notes on October 1, 2008 pursuant to the holders’ election and redeemed for cash $49,000 aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on October 8, 2008. As a result of all of these transactions, none of the 4.5% Notes remained outstanding as of October 8, 2008.  

 3.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 At December 31, 2008, we had outstanding $143.8 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Notes. The resale of the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion thereof was registered for the benefit of the holders on a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC. The 3.75% Notes mature on April 30, 2026 and bear interest at the annual rate of 3.75%, payable semi-annually on April 30 and October 30, until maturity.  

 The 3.75% Notes are convertible into our common stock, based on an initial conversion rate of 44.6229 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $22.41 per share), subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. The 3.75% Notes are convertible by the holder (i) during any fiscal quarter if the closing price of our common stock is greater than 130% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, (ii) upon us calling the 3.75% Notes for redemption, (iii) upon the occurrence of specified distributions to holders of our common stock or specified corporate transactions or (iv) at any time on or after March 1, 2026 until the business day immediately preceding the maturity date of the 3.75% Notes. The 3.75% Notes are not presently convertible, although they have been convertible in certain prior quarters as a result of the satisfaction of the market price condition in clause (i) above. If the 3.75% Notes become convertible under any of these circumstances, we have the option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, with the amount of cash determined in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the notes were issued. Conversions that may occur in the future could result in the recording of losses on extinguishment of debt if the conversions are settled in cash for an amount in excess of the principal amount. The holders of the 3.75% Notes who convert their notes in connection with certain change in control transactions, as defined in the indenture, may be entitled to a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. In the event of a change in control, in lieu of paying holders a make whole premium, if applicable, we may elect, in some circumstances, to adjust the conversion rate and related conversion obligations so that the 3.75% Notes are convertible into shares of the acquiring or surviving company.  

 Beginning on April 30, 2010 until April 30, 2013, we may redeem for cash all or part of the 3.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing price of our common stock is equal to or greater than 130% of the conversion price then in effect for the 3.75% Notes for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the trading day immediately prior to the date of mailing of the notice of redemption. In addition, we may redeem for cash all or part of the 3.75% Notes at any time on or after April 30, 2010 at certain redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid  

 42   
 interest. Beginning with the six-month interest period commencing on April 30, 2010, and for each six-month interest period thereafter, we will be required to pay contingent interest on any outstanding 3.75% Notes during the applicable interest period if the average trading price of the 3.75% Notes reaches a specified threshold. The contingent interest payable within any applicable interest period will equal an annual rate of 0.25% of the average trading price of the 3.75% Notes during a five trading day reference period.  

 The holders of the 3.75% Notes may require us to repurchase all or a part of the notes in cash on each of April 30, 2013, April 30, 2016 and April 30, 2021, and in the event of a change in control of the company, as defined in the indenture, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.75% Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. The 3.75% Notes carry cross-default provisions with our other debt instruments exceeding $20.0 million in borrowings, which includes our existing credit facility.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Transactions  

 As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business that result in risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions include liabilities associated with non-cancelable operating leases, letter of credit obligations, commitments to expand our dark fiber network and surety guarantees. We have not engaged in any off-balance sheet financing arrangements through special purpose entities, and we have no material guarantees of the work or obligations of third parties.  

 Leases  

 We enter into non-cancelable operating leases for many of our facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases allow us to conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee for use of facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than purchasing them. We may decide to cancel or terminate a lease before the end of its term, in which case we are typically liable to the lessor for the remaining lease payments under the term of the lease.  

 We have guaranteed the residual value of the underlying assets under certain of our equipment operating leases at the date of termination of such leases. We have agreed to pay any difference between this residual value and the fair market value of each underlying asset as of the lease termination date. As of December 31, 2008, the maximum guaranteed residual value was approximately $156.6 million. We believe that no significant payments will be made as a result of the difference between the fair market value of the leased equipment and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can be no assurance that future significant payments will not be required.  

 Letters of Credit  

 Certain of our vendors require letters of credit to ensure reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on our behalf, such as to beneficiaries under our self-funded insurance programs. In addition, from time to time some customers require us to post letters of credit to ensure payment to our subcontractors and vendors under those contracts and to guarantee performance under our contracts. Such letters of credit are generally issued by a bank or similar financial institution. The letter of credit commits the issuer to pay specified amounts to the holder of the letter of credit if the holder demonstrates that we have failed to perform specified actions. If this were to occur, we would be required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit. Depending on the circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may also have to record a charge to earnings for the reimbursement. We do not believe that it is likely that any claims will be made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable future.  

 As of December 31, 2008, we had $160.2 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility primarily to secure obligations under our casualty insurance program. These are irrevocable stand-by letters of credit with maturities generally expiring at various times throughout 2009. Upon maturity, it is expected that the majority of these letters of credit will be renewed for subsequent one-year periods.  

 43   
 Performance Bonds and Parent Guarantees  

 Many customers, particularly in connection with new construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. Under our continuing indemnity and security agreement with our sureties and with the consent of our lenders under our credit facility, we have granted security interests in certain of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the sureties. In addition, under our agreement with the surety that issued bonds on behalf of InfraSource, which remains in place for any bonds that were outstanding under it at the closing of the Merger and have not expired or been replaced, we will be required to transfer to the surety certain of our assets as collateral in the event of a default under the agreement. We may be required to post letters of credit or other collateral in favor of the sureties or our customers in the future. Posting letters of credit in favor of the sureties or our customers would reduce the borrowing availability under our credit facility. To date, we have not been required to make any reimbursements to our sureties for bond-related costs. We believe that it is unlikely that we will have to fund significant claims under our surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2008, an aggregate of approximately $918.9 million in original face amount of bonds issued by our sureties were outstanding. Our estimated cost to complete these bonded projects was approximately $201.6 million as of December 31, 2008.  

 From time to time, we guarantee the obligations of our wholly owned subsidiaries, including obligations under certain contracts with customers, certain lease obligations and, in some states, obligations in connection with obtaining contractors licenses.  

 Contractual Obligations  

 As of December 31, 2008, our future contractual obligations are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The committed capital expenditures for dark fiber networks represent commitments related to signed contracts with customers. The amounts are estimates of costs required to build the networks under contract. The actual capital expenditures related to building the networks could vary materially from these estimates.  

 Actual maturities of our long-term debt may differ from contractual maturities because convertible note holders may convert their notes prior to the maturity dates or subsequent to optional maturity dates.  

 As of December 31, 2008, the total unrecognized tax benefit related to uncertain tax positions was $59.2 million. We estimate that none of this will be paid within the next twelve months. However, we believe that it is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months unrecognized tax benefits will decrease up to $24.8 million due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. We are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates regarding the timing of future cash outflows, if any, associated with the remaining unrecognized tax benefits.  

 44   
 Our multi-employer pension plan contributions are determined annually based on our union employee payrolls, which cannot be determined in advance for future periods. We may also be required to make additional contributions to our multi-employer pension plans if they become underfunded. For further information, see our risk factor regarding our unionized operations in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

 Self-Insurance  

 We are insured for employer’s liability claims, subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, and for general liability and auto liability subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence. We are also insured for workers’ compensation claims, subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers’ compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year.  

 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $152.0 million and $147.9 million, with $110.1 million and $105.0 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008 were $22.1 million and $12.5 million, of which $11.9 million and $7.2 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $10.2 million and $5.3 million are included in other assets, net.  

 Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 has experienced financial distress. Effective September 29, 2008, Quanta consummated a novation transaction that released this distressed casualty insurance carrier from all further obligations in connection with the policies in effect during that period in exchange for the payment to us of an agreed amount. Our current casualty insurance carrier assumed all obligations under the policies in effect during that period; however, we are obligated to indemnify the carrier in full for any liabilities under the policies assumed. At December 31, 2008, we estimated that the total future claim amounts associated with the novated policies was $6.8 million, based on an estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts at December 31, 2008 of between $2.0 million and $8.0 million. The actual amounts ultimately paid by us in connection with these claims, if any, could vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development. During the second quarter of 2008, we recorded an allowance of $3.4 million for potentially uncollectible amounts estimated to be ultimately due from the distressed insurer. As a result of the novation transaction, the net receivable balance remaining was written off in the third quarter of 2008, with an immaterial impact to the three month period ended September 30, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 Concentration of Credit Risk  

 We are subject to concentrations of credit risk related primarily to our cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. Substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. In accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. Although we do not currently believe the principal amount of these investments is subject to any material risk of loss, the recent volatility in the financial markets is likely to significantly impact the interest income we receive from these investments. In addition, we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in  

 45   
 the United States. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the United States, which may be heightened as a result of the current financial crisis and volatility of the markets. However, we generally have certain statutory lien rights with respect to services provided. Under certain circumstances, such as foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. In such circumstances, extended time frames may be required to liquidate these assets, causing the amounts realized to differ from the value of the assumed receivable. Historically, some of our customers have experienced significant financial difficulties, and others may experience financial difficulties in the future. These difficulties expose us to increased risk related to collectability of receivables for services we have performed. No customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2008 or revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 or 2008.  

 Litigation  

 We are from time to time party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract and/or property damages, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we record reserves when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We do not believe that any of these proceedings, separately or in the aggregate, would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 Related Party Transactions  

 In the normal course of business, we enter into transactions from time to time with related parties. These transactions typically take the form of facility leases with prior owners of certain acquired companies and payables to prior owners who are now employees.  

 Inflation  

 Due to relatively low levels of inflation experienced during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, inflation did not have a significant effect on our results.  

 New Accounting Pronouncements  

 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements.” SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes methods used to measure fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal periods, as it relates to financial assets and liabilities, as well as for any non-financial assets and liabilities that are carried at fair value. SFAS No. 157 also requires certain tabular disclosure related to the application of SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” and SFAS No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” On November 14, 2007, the FASB provided a one year deferral for the implementation of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 157 excludes from its scope SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS No. 123(R)) and its related interpretive accounting pronouncements that address share-based payment transactions. We adopted SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008 as it applies to our financial assets and liabilities, and based on the November 14, 2007 deferral of SFAS No. 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities, we will begin following the guidance of SFAS No. 157 with respect to our non-financial assets and liabilities in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, we had no material financial assets and liabilities on our balance sheet carried at fair value other than cash and cash equivalents balances which are disclosed as Level 1 assets in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, and therefore the partial adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, we do not currently have any material non-financial assets or liabilities that are carried at fair value on a recurring basis; however, we do have non-financial assets that are evaluated against measures of fair value on a non-recurring or as-needed basis, including goodwill, other intangibles and  

 46   
 long-term assets held and used. Based on the financial and non-financial assets and liabilities on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008, we do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position FSP FAS 157-3 “Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active.” FSP FAS 157-3 provides clarifying guidance with respect to the application of SFAS No. 157 in determining the fair value of a financial asset when the market for that asset in not active. FSP FAS 157-3 was effective upon its issuance. The application of FSP FAS 157-3 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the near-term.  

 On January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an amendment of FASB No. 115.” SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure at fair value many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that were not previously required to be measured at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. SFAS No. 159 does not affect any existing accounting literature that requires certain assets and liabilities to be carried at fair value. The adoption of SFAS No. 159 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of and for the year ended December 31, 2008 and is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the near-term.  

 On January 1, 2008, we adopted EITF Issue No. 06-11, “Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards.” EITF 06-11 requires that a realized income tax benefit from dividends or dividend equivalent units paid on unvested restricted shares and restricted share units be reflected as an increase in contributed surplus and as an addition to the company’s excess tax benefit pool, as defined under SFAS No. 123(R). Because we did not declare any dividends during 2008 and do not currently anticipate declaring dividends in the near future, the adoption of EITF 06-11 did not have any impact during the year ended December 31, 2008, and is not expected to have a material impact in the near-term, on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Non-controlling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51.” SFAS No. 160 addresses the accounting and reporting framework for minority interests by a parent company. SFAS No. 160 is to be effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Accordingly, we adopted SFAS No. 160 on January 1, 2009, with no material impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows on the date of adoption. As we do not currently have any material subsidiaries with non-controlling interests, the adoption of SFAS No. 160 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the near-term.  

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), “Business Combinations.” SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and accordingly, we adopted SFAS No. 141(R) on January 1, 2009. Earlier application was prohibited, and assets and liabilities that arose from business combinations occurring prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) cannot be adjusted upon the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R). SFAS No. 141(R) requires the acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the business combination; establishes the acquisition date as the measurement date to determine the fair value for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the information needed to evaluate and understand the nature and financial effect of the business combination. As it relates to recognizing all (and only) the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, costs an acquirer expects but is not obligated to incur in the future to exit an activity of an acquiree or to terminate or relocate an acquiree’s employees are not liabilities at the acquisition date but must be expensed in accordance with other applicable generally accepted accounting principles. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the acquirer must report in its financial statements provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. During the measurement period, which must not exceed one year from the acquisition date, the acquirer will retrospectively adjust the  

 47   
 provisional amounts recognized at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognized as of that date. The acquirer will be required to expense all acquisition-related costs in the periods such costs are incurred, other than costs to issue debt or equity securities in connection with the acquisition. SFAS No. 141(R) is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows at the date of adoption, but we expect that it may have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as a result of acquisitions in future periods.  

 In December 2007, the SEC published Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 110 (SAB 110). SAB 110 expresses the views of the SEC staff regarding the use of a “simplified” method, as discussed in SAB No. 107 (SAB 107), in developing an estimate of the expected term of “plain vanilla” share options in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R). In particular, the SEC staff indicated in SAB 107 that it will accept a company’s election to use the simplified method, regardless of whether the company has sufficient information to make more refined estimates of the expected term. However, the SEC staff stated in SAB 107 that it would not expect a company to use the simplified method for share option grants after December 31, 2007. In SAB 110, the SEC staff states that they would continue to accept, under certain circumstances, the use of the simplified method beyond December 31, 2007. Because we did not issue any stock options in 2008, SAB 110 had no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in 2008. Furthermore, because we currently do not anticipate issuing stock options in the near future, SAB 110 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the near-term.  

 In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities — An Amendment of FASB No. 133.” SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures to enable investors to better understand how a reporting entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities impact the entity’s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued after November 15, 2008, including interim financial statements. We adopted SFAS No. 161 on January 1, 2009, with no material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows on the date of adoption. As we have not entered into any material derivatives or hedging activities and do not currently anticipate doing so, the adoption of SFAS No. 161 is not anticipated to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or disclosures.  

 In April 2008, the FASB issued FSP 142-3, “Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets.” FSP 142-3 amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under SFAS No. 142. The intent of FSP 142-3 is to improve the consistency between the useful life of an intangible asset and the period of expected cash flows used to measure its fair value and to enhance existing disclosure requirements relating to intangible assets. FSP 142-3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and should be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after the effective date. Early adoption is prohibited. Accordingly, we adopted FSP 142-3 on January 1, 2009. FSP 142-3 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows at the date of adoption, but we expect that it may have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.  

 In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, “The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.” SFAS No. 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements of non-governmental entities that are presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. SFAS No. 162 will be effective 60 days following the SEC’s approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, “The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.” We will adopt SFAS No. 162 once it is effective, but we have not yet determined the impact, if any, on our consolidated financial statements.  

 In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FSP APB 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement).” FSP APB 14-1 requires issuers of such instruments to separately account for the liability and equity components in  

 48   
 a manner that will reflect the entity’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate and interest cost. The value of the equity component is recognized with an offsetting discount to the face value of the debt, which will be amortized as non-cash interest expense over the expected life of the debt. FSP APB 14-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years, and will be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. Accordingly, we adopted FSP APB 14-1 on January 1, 2009 and will apply FSP APB 14-1 retrospectively to all periods presented in future filings. We will record a cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle as of January 1, 2007 of approximately $29.6 million and non-cash interest expense of approximately $17.8 million ($11.3 million after-tax) and $14.5 million ($9.2 million after-tax) for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. In addition, we will record additional non-cash interest expense annually thereafter until our 3.75% Notes are redeemable at the holder’s option in April 2013, with approximately $4.3 million ($2.7 million after-tax) to be recorded in 2009.  

 In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-6-1, “Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities.” FSP EITF 03-6-1 states that unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities under the definition of SFAS No. 128, “Earnings per Share” and should be included in the computation of both basic and diluted earnings per share. FSP EITF 03-6-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those years. Accordingly, we adopted FSP EITF 03-6-1 on January 1, 2009. All prior period earnings per share data presented will be adjusted retrospectively to conform to the provisions of FSP EITF 03-6-1. Early application was not permitted. All of our restricted stock grants have non-forfeitable rights to dividends and are considered participating securities under FSP EITF 03-06-1. Through December 31, 2008, any unvested restricted stock grants are accounted for under the treasury stock method. Under this method unvested restricted common shares were not included in the calculation of weighted average basic shares outstanding and were included in the calculation of weighted average diluted shares outstanding to the extent the grant price was less than the average share price for the respective period. Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, under FSP ETIF 03-6-1, we will retrospectively restate earnings per share data for all prior and future periods presented to include all participating unvested restricted common shares in the calculation of weighted average basic and dilutive shares outstanding. The impact of the retrospective application of FSP ETIF 03-6-1 on earnings per share is anticipated to be immaterial.  

 In June 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue 07-5, “Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity’s Own Stock” (EITF 07-5). The primary objective of EITF 07-5 is to provide guidance for determining whether an equity-linked financial instrument or embedded feature within a contract is indexed to an entity’s own stock, which is a key criterion of the scope exception to paragraph 11(a) of SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” This criterion is also important in evaluating whether EITF 00-19, “Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock” applies to certain financial instruments that are not derivatives under SFAS No. 133. An equity-linked financial instrument or embedded feature within a contract that is not considered indexed to an entity’s own stock could be required to be classified as an asset or liability and marked-to-market through earnings. EITF 07-5 specifies a two-step approach in evaluating whether an equity-linked financial instrument or embedded feature within a contract is indexed to its own stock. The first step involves evaluating the instrument’s contingent exercise provisions, if any, and the second step involves evaluating the instrument’s settlement provisions. EITF 07-5 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and must be applied to all instruments outstanding as of the effective date. Accordingly, we adopted EITF 07-5 on January 1, 2009, with no material impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows on the date of adoption. We also do not anticipate the adoption of EITF 07-5 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the near-term.  

 In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue 08-6, “Equity Method Investment Accounting Considerations” (EITF 08-06). EITF 08-6 requires that the initial measurement of an equity method investment be at cost in accordance with SFAS No. 141(R). It also requires that an equity method investor recognize  

 49   
 other-than-temporary impairments of an equity method investment in accordance with paragraph 19(h) of APB Opinion 18. Additionally, an equity method investor shall not separately test an investee’s underlying indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, and an equity method investor shall account for a share issuance by an investee as if the investor had sold a proportionate share of its investment. Any gain or loss to the investor resulting from an investee’s share issuance shall be recognized in earnings, subject to certain exceptions. EITF 08-6 is effective on a prospective basis in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Accordingly, we adopted EITF 08-6 on January 1, 2009, with no material impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows on the date of adoption. We also do not anticipate the adoption of EITF 08-6 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the near term.  

 In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue 08-7, “Accounting for Defensible Intangible Assets.” EITF 08-7 requires that a defensible intangible asset should be accounted for as a separate unit of account rather than as part of the cost of an acquirer’s existing intangible assets and that the useful life assigned to such defensible intangible asset should reflect the entity’s consumption of the expected benefits related to the asset. EITF 08-7 is effective on a prospective basis in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Accordingly, we adopted EITF 08-7 on January 1, 2009, with no impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows at the date of adoption. We anticipate that the adoption of EITF 08-7 may have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the future when it is applied to acquisitions which occur in future periods.  

 In November 2008, the FASB ratified EITF Issue 08-8, “Accounting for an Instrument (or an Embedded Feature) with a Settlement Amount That is Based on the Stock of an Entity’s Consolidated Subsidiary.” EITF 08-8 provides guidance regarding the accounting for a financial instrument or embedded feature when it is indexed to a subsidiary considered to be a substantive entity in that such instrument or feature is not precluded from being considered indexed to the entity’s own stock in the consolidated financial statements of the parent. Additionally, an equity-classified instrument or feature within the scope of EITF 08-8 shall be presented as a component of noncontrolling interest in the consolidated financial statements, whether the instrument was entered into by the parent or subsidiary. EITF 08-8 is effective in fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008. Accordingly, we adopted EITF 08-8 on January 1, 2009, with no impact to our consolidated financial position on the date of adoption because we had no such instruments or embedded features at December 31, 2008. We also do not expect the adoption of EITF 08-8 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the near-term.  

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date the consolidated financial statements are published and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented. We review all significant estimates affecting our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis and record the effect of any necessary adjustments prior to their publication. Judgments and estimates are based on our beliefs and assumptions derived from information available at the time such judgments and estimates are made. Uncertainties with respect to such estimates and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of financial statements. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Management has reviewed its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:  

 Revenue Recognition  

 Infrastructure Services — We design, install and maintain networks for the electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries, as well as provide various ancillary services to commercial,  

 50   
 industrial and governmental entities. These services may be provided pursuant to master service agreements, repair and maintenance contracts and fixed price and non-fixed price installation contracts. Pricing under these contracts may be competitive unit price, cost-plus/hourly (or time and materials basis) or fixed price (or lump sum basis), and the final terms and prices of these contracts are frequently negotiated with the customer. Under unit-based contracts, the utilization of an output-based measurement is appropriate for revenue recognition. Under these contracts, we recognize revenue when units are completed based on pricing established between us and the customer for each unit of delivery, which best reflects the pattern in which the obligation to the customer is fulfilled. Under our cost-plus/hourly and time and materials type contracts, we recognize revenue on an input-basis, as labor hours are incurred and services are performed.  

 Revenues from fixed price contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs for each contract. These contracts provide for a fixed amount of revenues for the entire project. Such contracts provide that the customer accept completion of progress to date and compensate us for services rendered, measured in terms of units installed, hours expended or some other measure of progress. Contract costs include all direct material, labor and subcontract costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs. Much of the materials associated with our work are owner-furnished and are therefore not included in contract revenues and costs. The cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, project managers and financial professionals. Changes in job performance, job conditions and final contract settlements are factors that influence management’s assessment of the total estimated costs to complete those contracts and therefore, our profit recognition. Changes in these factors may result in revisions to costs and income and their effects are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for the total estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which such losses are determined to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates used for revenue recognition and claim assessments, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted.  

 We may incur costs related to change orders, whether approved or unapproved by the customer, and/or claims related to certain contracts. We determine the probability that such costs will be recovered based upon evidence such as past practices with the customer, specific discussions or preliminary negotiations with the customer or verbal approvals. We treat items as a cost of contract performance in the period incurred if it is not probable that the costs will be recovered or will recognize revenue if it is probable that the contract price will be adjusted and can be reliably estimated.  

 The current asset “Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts” represents revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed for fixed price contracts. The current liability “Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts” represents billings in excess of revenues recognized for fixed price contracts.  

 Dark Fiber — Quanta has fiber-optic facility licensing agreements with various customers, pursuant to which it recognizes revenues, including any initial fees or advance billings, ratably over the expected length of the agreements, including probable renewal periods. As of December 31, 2007 and 2008, initial fees and advanced billings on these licensing agreements not yet recorded in revenue were $23.2 million and $34.6 million and are recognized as deferred revenue, with $15.6 million and $25.1 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Actual revenues may differ from those estimates if the contracts are not renewed as expected.  

 Self-Insurance. We are insured for employer’s liability claims, subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, and for general liability and auto liability subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence. We are also insured for workers’ compensation claims, subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers’ compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year.  

 51   
 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. As of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $152.0 million and $147.9 million, with $110.1 million and $105.0 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008 were $22.1 million and $12.5 million, of which $11.9 million and $7.2 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $10.2 million and $5.3 million are included in other assets, net.  

 Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 has experienced financial distress. Effective September 29, 2008, Quanta consummated a novation transaction that released this distressed casualty insurance carrier from all further obligations in connection with the policies in effect during that period in exchange for the payment to us of an agreed amount. Our current casualty insurance carrier assumed all obligations under the policies in effect during that period; however, we are obligated to indemnify the carrier in full for any liabilities under the policies assumed. At December 31, 2008, we estimated that the total future claim amounts associated with the novated policies was $6.8 million, based on an estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts at December 31, 2008 of between $2.0 million and $8.0 million. The actual amounts ultimately paid by us in connection with these claims, if any, could vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development. During the second quarter of 2008, we recorded an allowance of $3.4 million for potentially uncollectible amounts estimated to be ultimately due from the distressed insurer. As a result of the novation transaction, the net receivable balance remaining was written off in the third quarter of 2008, with an immaterial impact to the three month period ended September 30, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 Valuation of Intangibles and Long-Lived Assets. SFAS No. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized but, instead, must be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives should continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 also provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other nonamortized intangible assets for impairment. The first step compares the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is then performed. The second step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill to the fair value of the goodwill. If the fair value of the goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss would be recorded in income (loss) from operations in the consolidated statements of operations.  

 SFAS No. 142 does not allow increases in the carrying value of reporting units that may result from our impairment test; therefore, we may record goodwill impairments in the future, even when the aggregate fair value of our reporting units and the company as a whole may increase. Goodwill of a reporting unit will be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances may include a significant change in business climate, loss of a significant customer or a loss of key personnel, among others. Additionally, a decrease in market capitalization below book value may trigger the need for interim impairment testing. SFAS No. 142 requires that management make certain estimates and assumptions in order to allocate goodwill to reporting units and to determine the fair value of reporting unit net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. When necessary, we engage third party specialists to assist us with our valuations. The valuations employ a combination of present value techniques and market multiple techniques to measure fair value. These valuations are based on a discount rate determined by management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. A provision for impairment could be required in a future period if future operating results and residual values differ from our estimates. Intangible  

 52   
 assets with definite lives are also reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be realizable.  

 As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which had historically served the cable television industry. This operating unit had transitioned to FTTN and FTTP deployments for our customers and had previously forecasted expectations to begin deployments of the broadband over power line (BPL) technology in late 2005. However, because the prospective BPL customers were still analyzing the costs and benefits of using this technology at the end of 2006, management determined the BPL work would be delayed. With the future revenue growth related to BPL delayed, and the resulting impact on projected cash flows reduced at December 31, 2006, management determined that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit was less than its carrying value and, consequently, a goodwill impairment charge was recognized. For this operating unit, the remaining unimpaired balance of goodwill is $30.3 million. This operating unit, as well as others that had previously served the cable television industry, had successfully expanded its services to include FTTN and FTTP services and therefore, currently operates with sufficient cash flows to support any remaining goodwill balances.  

 Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. Changes in our judgments and projections could result in a significantly different estimate of the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets and could result in an impairment. Variances in the assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital, growth rates and acquisition multiples applied could have an impact on the assessment of impairments and any amount of goodwill impairment charges recorded. For example, lower growth rates, lower acquisition multiples or higher costs of capital assumptions would all individually lead to lower fair value assessments and potentially increased frequency or size of goodwill impairments. Any goodwill or other intangible impairment would be included in the consolidated statements of operations.  

 Our goodwill is included in multiple reporting units. Due to the cyclical nature of our business, and the other factors described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, the profitability of our individual reporting units may suffer from downturns in customer demand and other factors. These factors may have a disproportionate impact on the individual reporting units as compared to Quanta as a whole and might adversely affect the fair value of the individual reporting units. If material adverse conditions occur that impact our reporting units, our future estimates of fair value may not support the carrying amount of one or more of our reporting units, and the related goodwill would need to be written down to an amount considered recoverable.  

 The estimated fair value of our reporting units exceeded their carrying value for the annual goodwill impairment test at December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we believe the goodwill is recoverable for all of the reporting units, however there can be no assurances that the goodwill will not be impaired in future periods.  

 We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be realizable. If an evaluation is required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset are compared to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if an impairment of such asset is necessary. This requires us to make long-term forecasts of the future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. Forecasts require assumptions about demand for our products and future market conditions. Since estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. Future events and unanticipated changes to assumptions could require a provision for impairment in a future period. The effect of any impairment would be to expense the difference between the fair value of such asset and its carrying value. Such expense would be reflected in income (loss) from operations in the consolidated statements of operations. In addition, we estimate the useful lives of our long-lived assets and other intangibles and periodically review these estimates to determine whether these lives are appropriate.  

 Current and Non-Current Accounts and Notes Receivable and Provision for Doubtful Accounts. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts when collection of an account or note receivable is considered doubtful, and receivables are written off against the allowance when deemed uncollectible. Inherent in the  

 53   
 assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and estimates including, among others, our customer’s access to capital, our customer’s willingness or ability to pay, general economic conditions and the ongoing relationship with the customer. Under certain circumstances such as foreclosure or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. Material changes in Quanta’s customers’ business of cash flows, which may be further impacted by the current financial crisis and volatility of the markets, could affect its ability to collect amounts due from them. Certain of our customers, several of them large public telecommunications carriers and utility customers, have experienced financial difficulties in the past. Should any major customers experience difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or should anticipated recoveries relating to the receivables in existing bankruptcies and other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current reserves.  

 Income Taxes. We follow the liability method of accounting for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the underlying assets or liabilities are recovered or settled.  

 We regularly evaluate valuation allowances established for deferred tax assets for which future realization is uncertain. The estimation of required valuation allowances includes estimates of future taxable income. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. If actual future taxable income differs from our estimates, we may not realize deferred tax assets to the extent estimated.  

 On January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48 “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — An Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN No. 48). FIN No. 48 prescribes a comprehensive model for how companies should recognize, measure, present and disclose in their financial statements uncertain tax positions taken or to be taken on a tax return. We record reserves for expected tax consequences of such uncertain positions assuming the taxing authorities’ full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts.  

 The income tax laws and regulations are voluminous and are often ambiguous. As such, we are required to make many subjective assumptions and judgments regarding our tax positions that can materially affect amounts recognized in our future consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations.  

 Outlook  

 Over the past two years, many utilities across the country increased or indicated plans to increase spending on their transmission and distribution systems, with a more significant focus on the upgrade and build-out of the transmission grid. As a result, new construction, pole change-outs, line upgrades and maintenance projects on many systems are occurring. While we expect this trend to continue over the next few quarters, capital constraints impacting our customers as a result of the current economic downturn could slow this spending, particularly in connection with their distribution systems.  

 We believe that renewable energy initiatives, including wind and solar, will create opportunities over the long-term for us to provide engineering, project management and installation services for renewable projects. State mandates, which set standards for how much power is required to be generated from renewable energy sources, as well as general environmental concerns, are driving the development of additional renewable energy projects. While the latter part of 2008 experienced a decline in renewable energy spending, we expect future spending on renewable energy initiatives to increase, although investments could be impacted by capital constraints if the financial markets continue to deteriorate.  

 We also anticipate increased spending over the next decade as a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the Energy Act), which requires the power industry to meet federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems and provides further incentives to the industry to invest in and improve maintenance  

 54   
 on its systems, although rule-making initiatives under the Energy Act could be impacted, both in timing and in scope, by the new presidential administration. Additionally, we expect the construction of renewable energy facilities, including wind and solar power generation, to result in the need for additional transmission lines and substations. As a result of these and other factors, we expect a continued shift in our services mix to a greater proportion of high-voltage electric power transmission and substation projects over the long-term, as well as opportunities to provide installation services for renewable projects. Many of these projects have a long-term horizon, and timing and scope can be negatively affected by numerous factors, including regulatory permitting, availability of funding and the effect of negative economic and market conditions.  

 We believe that certain provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), enacted in February 2009, will also increase demand for our services over the long-term. The economic stimulus programs under the ARRA include incentives in the form of direct spending and tax cuts and credits for renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. For example, the ARRA extended tax credits for wind projects until 2012, which we expect will encourage further development in wind energy. Funds provided to the states for the restoration, repair and construction of highways will also likely require the relocation and upgrade of electric power, telecommunications and natural gas infrastructure. We anticipate investments in many of these initiatives to create opportunities for our operations, although we cannot predict the timing of the implementation of the programs that support these investments or the timing or scope of the investments once the programs are implemented.  

 Several industry and market trends are also prompting customers in the electric power industry to seek outsourcing partners, such as us. These trends include an aging utility workforce, increasing volumes of work, increasing costs and labor issues. The need to ensure available labor resources for larger projects is also driving strategic relationships with customers.  

 We also see potential growth opportunities in our gas operations, primarily in natural gas gathering and pipeline installation and maintenance services, although recently this business has been negatively impacted by lower natural gas prices and capital constraints on spending by our customers. In the past, our gas operations have been challenged by lower margins overall, due in part to our gas distribution services that have been impacted by certain lower margin contracts and by recent declines in new housing construction in certain sectors of the country. We have allocated resources to more profitable services, and we are optimistic about these operations in the future, although economic and market conditions as well as the level of natural gas prices may continue to negatively affect this business in the near-term.  

 In the telecommunications industry, various initiatives are underway by several wireline carriers and government organizations that provide us with opportunities, in particular, initiatives for fiber to the premises (FTTP) and fiber to the node (FTTN). Such initiatives have been underway by Verizon, AT&T and other telecommunications providers, and municipalities and other government jurisdictions have also become active in these initiatives. Since the second quarter of 2008, we have seen a significant slow-down in FTTP and FTTN deployment, and we anticipate this slow-down to continue if economic and market conditions remain stagnant or further deteriorate. In connection with our wireless operations, several wireless companies have announced plans to increase their cell site deployments over the next few years, including the expansion of next generation technology. We anticipate increased opportunities from these plans over the long-term, with the timing and amount of spending on these plans somewhat dependent on future economic and market conditions.  

 We anticipate that the future initiatives by the telecommunication carriers will serve as a catalyst for the cable industry to begin a new network upgrade cycle to expand its service offerings in an effort to retain and attract customers; however, the timing of any upgrades is uncertain.  

 Our Dark Fiber segment is also experiencing growth primarily through the expansion into additional geographic markets, with a focus within those markets on education and healthcare customers where secure high-speed networks are important. We continue to see opportunities for growth both in the markets we currently serve and new markets, although we cannot predict the negative impact, if any, of the current economic downturn on these growth opportunities. To support the growth in this business, we anticipate the need for continued significant capital expenditures. Our Dark Fiber segment typically generates higher margins  

 55   
 than our Infrastructure Services segment, but we can give no assurance that the Dark Fiber segment margins will continue at historical levels.  

 Historically, our customers have continued to spend throughout short-term economic softness or weak recessions. A long-term or deep recession, however, would likely have some negative impact on our customers’ spending. In addition, the volatility of the capital markets may negatively affect our customers’ plans for future projects, which could be delayed, reduced or suspended if funding is not available. It is uncertain when and to what extent the current unfavorable economic and market conditions will improve, or if they will deteriorate further. Despite reductions in capital spending by some of our customers, our revenues in certain of the industries we serve may not decline, as utilities continue outsourcing more of their work, in part due to their aging workforce issues. Additionally, many of the capital expenditure reductions announced by utilities relate to power generation and areas other than transmission and distribution systems, and therefore, we may not be significantly impacted by these reductions. We believe that we remain the partner of choice for many utilities in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources. Furthermore, as new technologies emerge in the future for communications and digital services such as voice, video and data, telecommunications and cable service providers are expected to work quickly to deploy fast, next-generation fiber networks, and we are recognized as a key partner in deploying these services.  

 With the growth in several of our markets and our margin enhancement initiatives, we continue to see our gross margins generally improve, although reductions in spending by our customers, particularly in our telecommunications operations, could negatively affect our margins. We continue to focus on the elements of the business we can control, including costs, the margins we accept on projects, collecting receivables, ensuring quality service and rightsizing initiatives to match the markets we serve. These initiatives include aligning our workforce with our current revenue base, evaluating opportunities to reduce the number of field offices and evaluating our non-core assets for potential sale. Such initiatives could result in future charges related to, among other things, severance, retention, the shutdown and consolidation of facilities, property disposal and other exit costs.  

 Capital expenditures for 2009 are expected to be approximately $180 million, of which $85 million of these expenditures are targeted for dark fiber network expansion with the majority of the remaining expenditures for operating equipment in the Infrastructure Services segment. We expect 2009 capital expenditures to continue to be funded substantially through internal cash flows and cash on hand.  

 On August 30, 2007, we consummated the Merger with InfraSource, which enhanced our resources and expanded our service portfolio through InfraSource’s complementary businesses, strategic geographic footprint and skilled workforce. We have already begun to realize the benefits of the Merger through additional opportunities, and we continue to expect that the combined company will be able to better serve our customers as demand grows in their respective industries.  

 We continue to evaluate other potential strategic acquisitions of companies to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation and grow our portfolio of services. We believe that additional attractive acquisition candidates exist primarily as a result of the highly fragmented nature of the industry, the inability of many companies to expand and modernize due to capital constraints and the desire of owners of acquisition candidates for liquidity. We also believe that our financial strength and experienced management team will be attractive to acquisition candidates.  

 We believe that we are adequately positioned to capitalize upon opportunities and trends in the industries we serve because of our proven full-service operating units with broad geographic reach, financial capability and technical expertise. Additionally, we believe that these industry opportunities and trends will increase the demand for our services; however, we cannot predict the actual timing, magnitude or impact these opportunities and trends will have on our operating results and financial position, especially in light of the economic downturn and volatile capital markets.  

 56   
 Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information  

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended to qualify for the “safe harbor” from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “intend” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve or rely on a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict or beyond our control. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements and that any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Those statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 57   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements or that are otherwise included in this report. In addition, we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or otherwise.  

 58   
  ITEM 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk