ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors    

 Our business is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not known to us or not described below also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed and we may not be able to achieve our goals. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also includes statements reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended as “forward-looking statements” under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and should be read in conjunction with the section entitled “Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information” included in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

 Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter.  

 We typically experience lower gross and operating margins during winter months due to lower demand for our services and more difficult operating conditions. Additionally, our quarterly results may be materially and adversely affected by:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 14   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Accordingly, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year.  

 The recent economic downturn and the financial and credit crisis may adversely impact our customers’ future spending as well as payment for our services and, as a result, our operations and growth.  

 The growth in economic activity has slowed substantially, and the U.S. economy is in a recessionary period. It is uncertain when these conditions will improve. Stagnant or declining economic conditions may adversely impact the demand for our services and potentially result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects. Many of our customers finance their projects through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. The credit markets have also declined, and the availability of credit is constrained. Additionally, many of our customers’ equity values have substantially declined. A reduction in cash flow and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a reduction in our customers’ spending for our services and may also impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels.  

 An economic downturn in any of the industries we serve may lead to less demand for our services.  

 Because the vast majority of our revenue is derived from a few industries, a downturn in any of those industries would adversely affect our results of operations. Specifically, an economic downturn in any industry we serve could result in the delay, reduction or cancellation of projects by our customers as well as cause our customers to outsource less work, resulting in decreased demand for our services. The telecommunications and utility markets experienced substantial change during 2002 and 2003 as evidenced by an increased number of bankruptcies in the telecommunications market, continued devaluation of many of our customers’ debt and equity securities and pricing pressures resulting from challenges faced by major industry participants. These factors contributed to the delay and cancellation of projects and reduction of capital spending, which impacted our operations and our ability to grow at historical levels. A number of other factors, including financing conditions and potential bankruptcies in the industries we serve or a prolonged economic downturn or recession, could adversely affect our customers and their ability or willingness to fund capital expenditures in the future or pay for past services. Recently, our telecommunications and cable operations have been negatively impacted by reductions in spending due to the economic downturn and volatility in the capital markets. We have seen a significant slow-down in FTTP and FTTN deployment from customers such as AT&T and Verizon since the second quarter of 2008, and we anticipate this slow-down will likely continue if economic conditions remain stagnant or further deteriorate. We have also seen reduced spending in electric distribution due to capital expenditure reductions. Additionally, our gas distribution installation business, which is driven in part by the housing construction market, has decreased, and continued declines in new housing construction could cause further reductions in this business. Another area of our natural gas business — gas gathering and pipeline installation and maintenance — has also declined, which we believe is due to lower natural gas prices and capital constraints on spending by our customers. Consolidation, competition, capital constraints or negative economic conditions in the electric power, gas, telecommunications or cable television industries may also result in reduced spending by, or the loss of, one or more of our customers.  

 Project delays or cancellations may result in additional costs to us, reductions in revenues or the payment of liquidated damages.  

 In certain circumstances, we guarantee project completion by a scheduled acceptance date or achievement of certain acceptance and performance testing levels. Failure to meet any of those schedules or performance requirements could result in additional costs or penalties, including liquidated damages, and such amounts could exceed expected project profit. Many projects involve challenging engineering, procurement and construction phases that may occur over extended time periods, sometimes over several years. We may  

 15   
 encounter difficulties in engineering, delays in designs or materials provided by the customer or a third party, equipment and material delivery, schedule changes, delays from our customer’s failure to timely obtain rights-of-way, weather-related delays and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, that impact our ability to complete the project in accordance with the original delivery schedule. For example, the recent increase in demand for transmission services has strained production resources, creating significant lead times for obtaining large transformers, transmission towers and poles. As a result, electric transmission project revenues could be significantly reduced or delayed due to the difficulty we or our customers may experience in obtaining required materials. In addition, we occasionally contract with third-party subcontractors to assist us with the completion of contracts. Any delay by suppliers or by subcontractors in the completion of their portion of the project, or any failure by a subcontractor to satisfactorily complete its portion of the project may result in delays in the overall progress of the project or may cause us to incur additional costs, or both. We also may encounter project delays due to local opposition, which may include injunctive actions as well as public protests, to the siting of transmission lines or other facilities.  

 Delays and additional costs may be substantial and, in some cases, we may be required to compensate the customer for such delays. We may not be able to recover all of such costs. In extreme cases, the above-mentioned factors could cause project cancellations, and we may not be able to replace such projects with similar projects or at all. Such delays or cancellations may impact our reputation or relationships with customers, adversely affecting our ability to secure new contracts.  

 Project contracts may require customers or other parties to provide the design, engineering information, equipment or materials to be used on a project. In some cases, the project schedule or the design, engineering information, equipment or materials may be deficient or delivered later than required by the project schedule. Our customers may change or delay various elements of the project after its commencement, resulting in additional direct or indirect costs. Under these circumstances, we generally negotiate with the customer with respect to the amount of additional time required and the compensation to be paid to us. We are subject to the risk that we may be unable to obtain, through negotiation, arbitration, litigation or otherwise, adequate amounts to compensate us for the additional work or expenses incurred by us due to customer-requested change orders or failure by the customer to timely deliver items, such as engineering drawings or materials, required to be provided by the customer. Litigation or arbitration of claims for compensation may be lengthy and costly, and it is often difficult to predict when and for how much the claims will be resolved. A failure to obtain adequate compensation for these matters could require us to record a reduction to amounts of revenue and gross profit recognized in prior periods under the percentage-of-completion accounting method. Any such adjustments could be substantial. We may also be required to invest significant working capital to fund cost overruns while the resolution of claims is pending, which could adversely affect liquidity and financial results in any given period.  

 We may be unsuccessful at generating internal growth.  

 Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In addition, our customers may delay, reduce or cancel the number or size of projects available to us due to their inability to obtain capital or pay for services provided, the risk of which has become heightened in light of the recent economic downturn. Many of the factors affecting our ability to generate internal growth may be beyond our control, and we cannot be certain that our strategies will be successful or that we will be  

 16   
 able to generate cash flow sufficient to fund our operations and to support internal growth. If we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to achieve internal growth of our business or expand our operations.  

 Our use of fixed price contracts could adversely affect our business.  

 We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a portion of our revenues under fixed price contracts. We must estimate the costs of completing a particular project to bid for fixed price contracts. The actual cost of labor and materials, however, may vary from the costs we originally estimated. These variations, along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price contracts, may cause actual revenue and gross profits for a project to differ from those we originally estimated and could result in reduced profitability or losses on projects. Depending upon the size of a particular project, variations from the estimated contract costs could have a significant impact on our operating results for any fiscal quarter or year.  

 Our use of percentage-of-completion accounting could result in a reduction or elimination of previously reported profits.  

 As discussed in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies” and in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 hereof, a significant portion of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, utilizing the cost-to-cost method. This method is used because management considers expended costs to be the best available measure of progress on these contracts. This accounting method is generally accepted for fixed price contracts. The percentage-of-completion accounting practice we use results in our recognizing contract revenues and earnings ratably over the contract term in proportion to our incurrence of contract costs. The earnings or losses recognized on individual contracts are based on estimates of contract revenues, costs and profitability. Contract losses are recognized in full when determined to be probable and reasonably estimatable, and contract profit estimates are adjusted based on ongoing reviews of contract profitability. Further, a substantial portion of our contracts contain various cost and performance incentives. Penalties are recorded when known or finalized, which generally occurs during the latter stages of the contract. In addition, we record cost recovery claims when we believe recovery is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. Actual collection of claims could differ from estimated amounts and could result in a reduction or elimination of previously recognized earnings. In certain circumstances, it is possible that such adjustments could be significant.  

 Our industry is highly competitive.  

 Our industry is served by numerous small, owner-operated private companies, some public companies and several large regional companies. In addition, relatively few barriers prevent entry into some of our industries. As a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become one of our competitors. Competition in the industry depends on a number of factors, including price. Certain of our competitors may have lower overhead cost structures and, therefore, may be able to provide their services at lower rates than we are able to provide. In addition, some of our competitors have significant resources including financial, technical and marketing resources. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services. Similarly, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position within our industry or maintain our customer base at current levels. We also may face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers. Electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television service providers usually employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services we do. We cannot be certain that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future.  

 Legislative actions and incentives relating to electric power and renewable energy may fail to result in increased demand for our services.  

 Implementation of the Energy Act is still subject to considerable fiscal and regulatory uncertainty. Regulations implementing the components of the Energy Act that may affect demand for our services remain  

 17   
 in some cases subject to review in various federal courts. In one such case, decided in February 2009, a federal court of appeals vacated FERC’s interpretation of the scope of its backstop siting authority. Accordingly, the effect of these regulations, once finally implemented, is uncertain. As a result, the legislation may not result in increased spending on the electric power transmission infrastructure. Continued uncertainty regarding the implementation of the Energy Act may result in slower growth in demand for our services. In addition, changes to energy regulatory policy may be forthcoming due to the new administration.  

 Demand for our services also may not result from renewable energy initiatives or the ARRA. While 30 states currently have mandates in place that require certain percentages of power to be generated from renewable sources, states could reduce those mandates or make them optional, which would reduce, delay or eliminate renewable energy development in the affected states. Additionally, renewable energy is generally more expensive to produce and may require additional power generation sources as backup. The locations of renewable energy projects are often remote and are not viable unless connectivity to the grid to transport the power to demand centers is economically feasible. Furthermore, funding for renewable energy initiatives may not be available, which may be further constrained as a result of turbulent credit markets. These factors could result in fewer renewable energy projects than anticipated or a delay in the timing of construction of these projects and the related infrastructure, which would negatively affect the demand for our services. In addition, we cannot predict when programs under the ARRA will be implemented or the timing and scope of any investments to be made under these programs. Investments for renewable energy, electric power infrastructure and telecommunications fiber deployment under ARRA programs may not occur, may be less than anticipated or may be delayed, which would negatively impact demand for our services.  

 Many of our contracts may be canceled on short notice or may not be renewed upon completion or expiration, and we may be unsuccessful in replacing our contracts in such events.  

 We could experience a decrease in our revenue, net income and liquidity if any of the following occur:  

    •   our customers cancel a significant number of contracts or contracts having significant value;   

    •   we fail to win a significant number of our existing contracts upon re-bid;   

    •   we complete a significant number of non-recurring projects and cannot replace them with similar projects; or   

    •   we fail to reduce operating and overhead expenses consistent with any decrease in our revenue.    

 Many of our customers may cancel our contracts on short notice, typically 30-90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. Certain of our customers assign work to us on a project-by-project basis under master service agreements. Under these agreements, our customers often have no obligation to assign a specific amount of work to us. Our operations could decline significantly if the anticipated volume of work is not assigned to us, which may be more likely if customer spending decreases, for example, due to the economic downturn. Many of our contracts, including our master service agreements, are opened to public bid at the expiration of their terms. There can be no assurance that we will be the successful bidder on our existing contracts that come up for re-bid.  

 Our business is labor intensive, and we may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees.  

 Our ability to maintain our productivity and profitability will be limited by our ability to employ, train and retain skilled personnel necessary to meet our requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy. For instance, we may experience shortages of qualified journeyman linemen. In addition, we cannot be certain that our labor expenses will not increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of these skilled personnel. Labor shortages or increased labor costs could impair our ability to maintain our business or grow our revenues.  

 18   
 Backlog may not be realized or may not result in profits.  

 Backlog is difficult to determine with certainty. Customers often have no obligation under our contracts to assign or release work to us, and many contracts may be terminated on short notice. Reductions in backlog due to cancellation of one or more contracts by a customer or for other reasons could significantly reduce the revenue and profit we actually receive from contracts included in backlog. In the event of a project cancellation, we may be reimbursed for certain costs but typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog. The backlog we obtain in connection with any companies we acquire may not be as large as we believed or may not result in the revenue or profits we expected. In addition, projects may remain in backlog for extended periods of time. All of these uncertainties are heightened as a result of negative economic conditions and their impact on our customers’ spending. Consequently, we cannot assure you that our estimates of backlog are accurate or that we will be able to realize our estimated backlog.  

 Our financial results are based upon estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results.  

 In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, several estimates and assumptions are used by management in determining the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date of the financial statements. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. Estimates are primarily used in our assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property and equipment, fair value assumptions in analyzing goodwill and long-lived asset impairments, self-insured claims liabilities, forfeiture estimates relating to stock-based compensation, revenue recognition under percentage-of-completion accounting and provision for income taxes. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 Factors beyond our control may affect our ability to successfully execute our acquisition strategy, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy.  

 Our business strategy includes expanding our presence in the industries we serve through strategic acquisitions of companies that complement or enhance our business. We expect to face competition for acquisition opportunities, and some of our competitors may have access to financing on more favorable terms than us or have greater financial resources. This competition may limit our acquisition opportunities and our ability to grow through acquisitions or could raise the prices of acquisitions and make them less accretive or possibly non-accretive to us. Acquisitions that we may pursue may also involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence or the issuance of securities. Any acquisition may ultimately have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 We may be unsuccessful at integrating companies that either we have acquired or that we may acquire in the future.  

 As a part of our business strategy, we have acquired, and seek to acquire in the future, companies that complement or enhance our business. However, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully integrate each of these companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial problems. If we do not implement proper overall business controls, our decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices at the companies we acquire and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of special risks which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including:  

    •   failure of acquired companies to achieve the results we expect;    

 19   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 If one of our acquired companies suffers or has suffered customer dissatisfaction, performance problems or operational issues, the reputation of our entire company could suffer.  

 Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments.  

 When we acquire a business, we record an asset called “goodwill” equal to the excess amount we pay for the business, including liabilities assumed, over the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets of the business we acquire. For example, in connection with the Merger, we recorded approximately $973.1 million in goodwill and $158.8 million of intangible assets based on the application of purchase accounting. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 provides that goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives not be amortized, but instead be tested at least annually for impairment, and intangible assets that have finite useful lives continue to be amortized over their useful lives. SFAS No. 142 provides specific guidance for testing goodwill and other non-amortized intangible assets for impairment. SFAS No. 142 requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions when allocating goodwill to reporting units and determining the fair value of a reporting unit’s net assets and liabilities, including, among other things, an assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, investment rates, cost of capital and growth rates, which could significantly impact the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Fair value is determined using a combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches. Absent any impairment indicators, we perform our impairment tests annually during the fourth quarter. If there is a decrease in market capitalization below book value in the future, this may be considered an impairment indicator. As part of our 2006 annual test for goodwill impairment, goodwill in the amount of $56.8 million was written off as a non-cash operating expense associated with a decrease in the expected future demand for the services of one of our businesses, which has historically served the cable television industry. Any future impairments, including impairments of the goodwill or intangible assets recorded in connection with the Merger, would negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which the impairment is recognized.  

 Our profitability and financial operations may be negatively affected by changes in, or interpretations of, existing state or federal telecommunications regulations or new regulations that could adversely affect our Dark Fiber segment.  

 In connection with the Merger, we acquired InfraSource’s dark fiber licensing business. Many of the dark fiber customers benefit from the Universal Service “E-rate” program, which was established by Congress in the 1996 Telecommunications Act and is administered by the Universal Service Administrative Company (USAC) under the oversight of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Under the E-rate program, schools, libraries and certain health-care facilities may receive subsidies for certain approved telecommunications services, internet access and internal connections. From time to time, bills have been introduced in Congress that would eliminate or curtail the E-rate program. Passage of such actions by the FCC or USAC to further limit E-rate subsidies could decrease the demand for telecommunications infrastructure services by certain customers.  

 The telecommunications services we provide through our dark fiber licensing business are subject to regulation by the FCC, to the extent that they are interstate telecommunications services, and by state  

 20   
 regulatory agencies, when wholly within a particular state. To remain eligible to provide services under the E-rate program, we must maintain telecommunications authorizations in every state where we operate, and we must obtain such authorizations in any new state where we plan to operate. Changes in federal or state regulations could reduce the profitability of our dark fiber licensing business, and delays in obtaining new authorizations could inhibit our ability to grow our dark fiber business in new geographic areas. We could be subject to fines if the FCC or a state regulatory agency were to determine that any of our activities or positions are not in compliance with certain regulations. If the profitability of our dark fiber licensing business were to decline, or if this business were to become subject to fines, our results of operations could also be adversely affected.  

 Our dark fiber licensing business is capital intensive and requires a substantial investment before returns can be realized.  

 Our dark fiber licensing business requires substantial amounts of capital investment to build out new fiber networks. In 2009, our proposed capital expenditures for our dark fiber licensing business is approximately $85.0 million, $70.9 million of which is related to committed licensing arrangements as of December 31, 2008. Although we do not commit capital to new networks until we have a committed license arrangement in place with at least one customer, we may not be able to recoup our initial investment in the network if that customer defaults on its commitment. Even if the customer does not default or we add additional customers to the network, we still may not realize a return on the capital investment for an extended period of time. Additionally, new or developing technologies could negatively impact our dark fiber licensing business. If any of the above events occur, it could result in an impairment of our dark fiber network.  

 We extend credit to customers for purchases of our services, and in the past we have had, and in the future we may have, difficulty collecting receivables from major customers that have filed for bankruptcy or are otherwise experiencing financial difficulties.  

 We grant credit, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power and gas companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the United States. In the past, our customers in the telecommunications business have experienced significant financial difficulties and in several instances have filed for bankruptcy. A number of our utility customers have also experienced financial and business challenges in the past. In addition, some of our customers are currently experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the recent economic downturn. If additional major customers file for bankruptcy or continue to experience financial difficulties, or if anticipated recoveries relating to receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided. In addition, material changes in any of our customer’s revenues or cash flows could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them.  

 We are self-insured against potential liabilities.  

 Although we maintain insurance policies with respect to employer’s liability, general liability, automobile and workers’ compensation claims, those policies are subject to deductibles ranging from $1.0 million to $3.0 million per occurrence depending on the insurance policy. We are primarily self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. Additionally, we are subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on workers’ compensation claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year.  

 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number  

 21   
 of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs significantly above our estimates, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected in a given period.  

 Our casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods from August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 has experienced financial distress. Effective September 29, 2008, Quanta consummated a novation transaction that released this distressed casualty insurance carrier for the policy periods August 1, 2000 to February 28, 2003 from all further obligations in connection with the policies in effect during that period in exchange for the payment to us of an agreed amount. Our current casualty insurance carrier assumed all obligations under the policies in effect during that period; however, we are obligated to indemnify the carrier in full for any liabilities under the policies assumed. At December 31, 2008, we estimated that the total future claim amounts associated with the novated policies was $6.8 million, based on an estimate of the potential range of these future claim amounts at December 31, 2008 of between $2.0 million and $8.0 million. The actual amounts ultimately paid by us in connection with these claims, if any, could vary materially from the above range and could be impacted by further claims development.  

 Our unionized workforce and related obligations could adversely affect our operations.  

 As of December 31, 2008, approximately 45% of our hourly employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Although the majority of these agreements prohibit strikes and work stoppages, we cannot be certain that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future. Strikes or work stoppages would adversely impact our relationships with our customers and could cause us to lose business and decrease our revenue. Additionally, many of these agreements require us to participate with other companies in multi-employer pension plans. To the extent those plans are underfunded, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, may subject us to substantial liabilities under those plans if we withdraw from them or they are terminated. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 added new funding rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as “endangered,” “seriously endangered,” or “critical” status. For a plan in “critical” status, additional required contributions or benefit reductions may apply if a plan is determined to be underfunded.  

 Our ability to complete future acquisitions could be adversely affected because of our union status for a variety of reasons. For instance, our union agreements may be incompatible with the union agreements of a business we want to acquire and some businesses may not want to become affiliated with a union-based company. Additionally, we may increase our exposure to withdrawal liabilities for underfunded multi-employer pension plans to which an acquired company contributes.  

 Approximately 55% of our hourly employees are not unionized. The new presidential administration has expressed strong support for proposed legislation that would create more flexibility and opportunity for labor unions to organize non-union workers. If passed, this legislation could result in a greater percentage of our workforce being subject to collective bargaining agreements, heightening the risks described above. In addition, certain of our customers require or prefer a non-union workforce, and they may reduce the amount of work assigned to us if our labor crews were to become unionized.  

 We may incur liabilities or suffer negative financial or reputational impacts relating to occupational health and safety matters.  

 Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the maintenance of safe conditions in the workplace. While we have invested, and will continue to invest, substantial resources in our occupational health and safety programs, our industry involves a high degree of operational risk and there can be no assurance that we will avoid significant liability exposure. Although we have taken what we believe are appropriate precautions, we have suffered fatalities in the past and may suffer additional fatalities in the future.  

 22   
 Serious accidents, including fatalities, may subject us to substantial penalties, civil litigation or criminal prosecution. Claims for damages to persons, including claims for bodily injury or loss of life, could result in substantial costs and liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if our safety record were to substantially deteriorate over time or we were to suffer substantial penalties or criminal prosecution for violation of health and safety regulations, our customers could cancel our contracts and not award us future business.  

 Our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors and equipment manufacturers could expose us to the risk of loss in our operations.  

 On certain projects, we rely on suppliers to obtain the necessary materials and subcontractors to perform portions of our services. We also rely on equipment manufacturers to provide us with the equipment required to conduct our operations. Although we are not dependent on any single supplier, subcontractor or equipment manufacturer, any substantial limitation on the availability of required suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers could negatively impact our operations. The risk of a lack of available suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers is heightened under the current turbulent market conditions and economic downturn. To the extent we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials, we could experience losses in the performance of our operations.  

 Our business growth could outpace the capability of our corporate management infrastructure.  

 We cannot be certain that our infrastructure will be adequate to support our operations as they expand. Future growth also could impose significant additional responsibilities on members of our senior management, including the need to recruit and integrate new senior level managers and executives. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recruit and retain such additional managers and executives. To the extent that we are unable to manage our growth effectively, or are unable to attract and retain additional qualified management, we may not be able to expand our operations or execute our business plan.  

 During the ordinary course of our business, we may become subject to lawsuits or indemnity claims, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

 We have in the past been, and may in the future be, named as a defendant in lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings during the ordinary course of our business. These actions may seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, workers’ compensation, employment discrimination, breach of contract, property damage, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses or injunctive or declaratory relief. In addition, we generally indemnify our customers for claims related to the services we provide and actions we take under our contracts with them, and, in some instances, we may be allocated risk through our contract terms for actions by our customers or other third parties. Because our services in certain instances may be integral to the operation and performance of our customers’ infrastructure, we may become subject to lawsuits or claims for any failure of the systems that we work on, even if our services are not the cause of such failures, and we could be subject to civil and criminal liabilities to the extent that our services contributed to any property damage, personal injury or system failure. The outcome of any of these lawsuits, claims or legal proceedings could result in significant costs and diversion of management’s attention to the business. Payments of significant amounts, even if reserved, could adversely affect our reputation, liquidity and results of operations.  

 We may not realize all of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from acquiring InfraSource.  

 The success of the Merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the synergies and other benefits from acquiring InfraSource. To realize these synergies and benefits, however, we must continue to successfully integrate the operations and personnel of InfraSource into our business. We have substantially completed the integration of the two companies, but further integration may be required to fully realize the benefits of the Merger. If this continuing integration is unsuccessful, certain anticipated benefits of the Merger may not be realized fully or at all, may take longer or cost more to realize than expected. Because we and InfraSource have previously operated as independent companies, it is possible the integration may result in the future loss  

 23   
 of valuable employees, the disruption of our business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements. The size of the Merger may also make integration difficult, expensive and disruptive, adversely affecting our revenues and earnings.  

 A portion of our business depends on our ability to provide surety bonds. We may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects if we are not able to obtain the necessary surety bonds.  

 Current or future market conditions, including losses incurred in the construction industry or as a result of large corporate bankruptcies, as well as changes in our sureties’ assessment of our operating and financial risk, could cause our surety providers to decline to issue or renew, or substantially reduce the amount of, bonds for our work and could increase our bonding costs. These actions could be taken on short notice. If our surety providers were to limit or eliminate our access to bonding, our alternatives would include seeking bonding capacity from other sureties, finding more business that does not require bonds and posting other forms of collateral for project performance, such as letters of credit or cash. We may be unable to secure these alternatives in a timely manner, on acceptable terms, or at all, which could affect our ability to bid for or work on future projects requiring financial assurances.  

 We have also granted security interests in various of our assets to collateralize our obligations to our sureties. Furthermore, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue or continue bonds on a project-by-project basis and can decline to issue bonds at any time or require the posting of additional collateral as a condition to issuing or renewing any bonds. If we were to experience an interruption or reduction in the availability of bonding capacity as a result of these or any other reasons, we may be unable to compete for or work on certain projects that would require bonding.  

 The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business.  

 We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and on senior management of our operating units, including the businesses we acquire. Although we have entered into employment agreements with terms of one to three years with most of our executive officers and certain other key employees, we cannot be certain that any individual will continue in such capacity for any particular period of time. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees, could negatively impact our ability to manage our business. We do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees.  

 We are in the process of implementing an information technology (“IT”) solution, which could temporarily disrupt day-to-day operations at certain operating units.  

 We have begun to design a comprehensive IT solution that we believe will allow for a seamless interface between functions such as accounting and finance, human resources, operations, fleet management and customer relationships. Development and implementation of the IT solution will require substantial financial and personnel resources. Implementation will occur on an operating unit by operating unit basis. While the IT solution is intended to improve and enhance our information systems, implementation of new information systems at each operating unit exposes us to the risks of start-up of the new system and integration of that system with our existing systems and processes, including possible disruption of our financial reporting. Failure to properly implement the IT solution could result in substantial disruptions to our business, including coordinating and processing our normal business activities, testing and recording of certain data necessary to provide oversight over our disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal controls over our financial reporting, and other unforeseen problems.  

 We may not be successful in continuing to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has many requirements applicable to us regarding corporate governance and financial reporting, including the requirements for management to report on our internal controls over financial reporting and for our independent registered public accounting firm to express an opinion over the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. During 2008, we continued actions to ensure our ability to comply with these requirements. As of December 31, 2008, our internal control over  

 24   
 financial reporting was effective; however, there can be no assurance that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in future years. Failure to maintain effective internal controls or the identification of significant internal control deficiencies in acquisitions already made or made in the future could result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock and our other publicly traded securities, the reduced ability to obtain financing, the loss of customers, penalties and additional expenditures to meet the requirements.  

 Our failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant liabilities.  

 Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including those dealing with the handling and disposal of waste products, PCBs, fuel storage and air quality. We perform work in many different types of underground environments. If the field location maps supplied to us are not accurate, or if objects are present in the soil that are not indicated on the field location maps, our underground work could strike objects in the soil, some of which may contain pollutants. These objects may also rupture, resulting in the discharge of pollutants. In such circumstances, we may be liable for fines and damages, and we may be unable to obtain reimbursement from the parties providing the incorrect information. In addition, we perform directional drilling operations below certain environmentally sensitive terrains and water bodies. Due to the inconsistent nature of the terrain and water bodies, it is possible that such directional drilling may cause a surface fracture, resulting in the release of subsurface materials. These subsurface materials may contain contaminants in excess of amounts permitted by law, potentially exposing us to remediation costs and fines. We also own and lease several facilities at which we store our equipment. Some of these facilities contain fuel storage tanks which are above or below ground. If these tanks were to leak, we could be responsible for the cost of remediation as well as potential fines.  

 In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or leaks, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements could require us to incur significant costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. In certain instances, we have obtained indemnification or covenants from third parties (including predecessors or lessors) for such cleanup and other obligations and liabilities that we believe are adequate to cover such obligations and liabilities. However, such third-party indemnities or covenants may not cover all of our costs, and such unanticipated obligations or liabilities, or future obligations and liabilities, may have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition or cash flows. Further, we cannot be certain that we will be able to identify or be indemnified for all potential environmental liabilities relating to any acquired business.  

 Risks associated with operating in international markets could restrict our ability to expand globally and harm our business and prospects.  

 While only a small percentage of our revenue is currently derived from international markets, we hope to continue to expand the volume of services that we provide internationally. We presently conduct our international sales efforts in Canada, Mexico and select countries overseas, but expect that the number of countries that we operate in could expand significantly over the next few years. Economic conditions, including those resulting from wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts or volatility in the global markets, may adversely affect our customers, their demand for our services and their ability to pay for our services. In addition, there are numerous risks inherent in conducting our business internationally, including, but not limited to, potential instability in international markets, changes in regulatory requirements applicable to international operations, currency fluctuations in foreign countries, political, economic and social conditions in foreign countries and complex U.S. and foreign laws and treaties, including tax laws and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. These risks could restrict our ability to provide services to international customers and could adversely affect our ability to operate our business profitably.  

 Opportunities within the government arena could subject us to increased governmental regulation and costs.  

 Most government contracts are awarded through a regulated competitive bidding process. As we pursue increased opportunities in the government arena, management’s focus associated with the start up and bidding process may be diverted away from other opportunities. Involvement with government contracts could require  

 25   
 a significant amount of costs to be incurred before any revenues are realized from these contracts. In addition, as a government contractor, we are subject to a number of procurement rules and other public sector liabilities, any deemed violation of which could lead to fines or penalties or a loss of business. Government agencies routinely audit and investigate government contractors. Government agencies may review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If government agencies determine through these audits or reviews that costs were improperly allocated to specific contracts, they will not reimburse the contractor for those costs or may require the contractor to refund previously reimbursed costs. If government agencies determine that we engaged in improper activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties. In addition, if the government were to even allege improper activity, we also could experience serious harm to our reputation. Many government contracts must be appropriated each year. If appropriations are not made in subsequent years we would not realize all of the potential revenues from any awarded contracts.  

 The industries we serve are subject to rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for the services we provide.  

 The electric power, gas, telecommunications and cable television industries are undergoing rapid change as a result of technological advances that could, in certain cases, reduce the demand for our services, impair the value of our dark fiber network or otherwise negatively impact our business. New or developing technologies could displace the wireline systems used for voice, video and data transmissions, and improvements in existing technology may allow telecommunications and cable television companies to significantly improve their networks without physically upgrading them.  

 We may not have access in the future to sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations.  

 If we cannot secure additional financing in the future on acceptable terms, we may be unable to support our growth strategy or future operations. We cannot readily predict the ability of certain customers to pay for past services, and the recent economic downturn may negatively impact the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us. We also cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. Using cash for acquisitions limits our financial flexibility and makes us more likely to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. Our existing credit facility contains significant restrictions on our operational and financial flexibility, including our ability to incur additional debt or conduct equity financings, and if we seek more debt we may have to agree to additional covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. When we seek additional debt or equity financings, we cannot be certain that additional debt or equity will be available to us on terms acceptable to us or at all, in particular under the current volatile market conditions. Furthermore, our credit facility is based upon existing commitments from several banks. With the current turbulent credit markets, banks have become more restrictive in their lending practices, and some may be unable or unwilling to fund their commitments, which may limit our access to the capital needed to fund our growth and operations. We also rely on financing companies to fund the leasing of certain of our trucks and trailers, support vehicles and specialty construction equipment. The deteriorating credit market may cause certain of these financing companies to restrict or withhold access to capital to fund the leasing of additional equipment. Although we are not dependent on any single equipment lessor, a widespread lack of available capital to fund the leasing of equipment could negatively impact our future operations. Additionally, the market price of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, which will impact our ability to use equity to obtain funds. A variety of events may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly, including overall market conditions or volatility, a shortfall in our operating results from those anticipated, negative results or other unfavorable information relating to our market peers on the risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 26   
 Our convertible subordinated notes may be convertible in the future, which, if converted, may result in dilution to existing stockholders, lower prevailing market prices for our common stock or cause a significant cash outlay.  

 As a result of our common stock satisfying the market price condition of our convertible subordinated notes, our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) were convertible at the option of the holders during various quarters in 2007 and 2008. The 3.75% Notes are not presently convertible, but may resume convertibility in future periods upon satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions.  

 We have the right to deliver shares of our common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock upon a conversion of the notes. The number of shares issuable upon conversion will be determined based on a conversion rate of approximately $22.41 for the 3.75% Notes. In the event that all 3.75% Notes were converted for common stock, we would issue an aggregate of 6.4 million shares of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of our 3.75% Notes into our common stock would dilute existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the possibility that the notes may be converted may encourage short-selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could depress the price of our common stock.  

 If we elect to satisfy the conversion obligation in cash, the amount of cash payable upon conversion of the notes will be determined by the product of (i) the number of shares issuable for the principal amount of the converted notes at a conversion rate of approximately $22.41 per share for the 3.75% Notes and (ii) the average closing price of our common stock during a 20-day trading period following the holders unretracted election to convert the notes. To the extent we decide to pay cash to settle any conversions and the average closing price of our common stock during this period exceeds $22.41 for the 3.75% Notes, we would have to pay cash in excess of the principal amount of the notes being converted, which would result in the recording of a loss on extinguishment of debt.  

 Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult.  

 The following provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as currently in effect, as well as our stockholder rights plan and Delaware law, could discourage potential proposals to acquire us, delay or prevent a change in control of us or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock:  

    •   our certificate of incorporation permits our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and to adopt amendments to our bylaws;   

    •   our bylaws contain restrictions regarding the right of stockholders to nominate directors and to submit proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings;   

    •   our certificate of incorporation and bylaws restrict the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to act by written consent;   

    •   we are subject to provisions of Delaware law which prohibit us from engaging in any of a broad range of business transactions with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years following the date such stockholder became classified as an interested stockholder; and   

    •   we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that could cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our Board of Directors or permitted by the stockholder rights plan.    

  ITEM 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments    

 None.  

 27   
  ITEM 2.    Properties