Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

Results of Operations  

Non-GAAP Measures  

The following discussion includes organic sales and free cash flow, which are non-GAAP measures. See Supplemental Sales Information for a reconciliation of reported sales to organic sales and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors. See Financial Condition for a reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities to free cash flow and a discussion of why we believe this non-GAAP measure is useful to investors.  

Overview  

We are a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. Overall demand for our products and services is driven by:  

   •   investments in manufacturing, including upgrades, modifications and expansions of existing facilities or production lines, and the creation of new facilities or production lines;    

   •   our customers’ needs for productivity and cost reduction, sustainable production (cleaner, safer and more energy efficient), quality assurance and overall global competitiveness;    

   •   industry factors that include our customers’ new product introductions, demand for our customers’ products or services, and the regulatory and competitive environments in which our customers operate;    

   •   levels of global industrial production and capacity utilization;    

   •   regional factors that include local political, social, regulatory and economic circumstances;    

   •   the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedule; and    

   •   investments in basic materials production capacity, partly in response to higher end-product pricing.    

Long-term Strategy  

Our strategic framework incorporates our vision of being the most valued global provider of innovative industrial automation and information products, services and solutions, and our growth and performance strategy, which seeks to:  

   •   achieve growth rates in excess of the automation market by expanding our served market and strengthening our technology and customer-facing differentiation;    

   •   diversify our revenue streams by increasing our capabilities in new applications, including process control, safety and information software, broadening our solutions and service capabilities, advancing our global presence and serving a wider range of industries;    

   •   grow market share by gaining new customers and by capturing a larger share of our Original Equipment Manufacturer machine builders (OEMs) and end user customers’ spending;    

   •   enhance our market access by building our channel capability and partner network;    

   •   make acquisitions that serve as catalysts to organic growth by adding complementary technology, expanding our served market, increasing our domain expertise or continuing our geographic diversification;    

   •   deploy human and financial resources to strengthen our technology leadership and allow us to continue to transform our business model into one that is based less on tangible assets and more on intellectual capital; and    

   •   continuously improve quality and customer experience, drive 3-4 percent annual cost productivity, and optimize end-to-end business processes.    

By implementing the strategy above, we seek to achieve our long-term financial goals that include revenue growth of 6-8 percent, double-digit EPS growth and 60 percent of our revenue outside the U.S.  

16   
Our customers face the challenge of remaining globally cost competitive and automation can help them achieve their productivity and sustainability objectives. In addition, increasingly complex and volatile customer demand patterns drive the need for flexible manufacturing. Our value proposition is to help our customers gain the benefits of faster time to market, lower total cost of ownership, increase asset utilization and reduce business risks.  

Differentiation through Technology and Domain Expertise  

We seek a technology leadership position in all facets of control. We believe our core technologies are the foundation for long-term sustainable growth in excess of global Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth.  

Our integrated control and information architecture, with Logix at its core, is capable of safely and efficiently controlling industrial processes while connecting the plant floor to the enterprise systems and the external supply chain. This architecture is an important differentiator and the anchor of our comprehensive automation offering. We complement the scalable Logix platform with component-level control solutions suited for less complex machine applications. Investments in these technologies have expanded our served market beyond discrete control into process, safety and plant-wide information.  

We believe that process automation is the largest growth opportunity for our company. Our Logix architecture enables us to compete effectively with traditional Distributed Control Systems (DCS) providers for many process applications.  

We have one of the most comprehensive safety offerings in the industry, including both machine and process safety products and solutions. We see significant potential in the growing safety market. We successfully integrated safety into the Logix platform with our launch of GuardLogix® safety controllers. Our safety products are designed to bring a dual benefit to our customers: a safe environment for their employees and productivity in their operations.  

Through internal investment and acquisitions, we have expanded our software and communication capabilities, both of which are critical components of our integrated architecture and key to optimizing processes and assets while integrating the plant floor, the enterprise business system and the supply chain.  

Our broad power and motor control offering is one of our core competencies. Many of our motor control products are intelligent and configurable and can be integrated seamlessly with the Logix architecture. These products enhance the availability, efficiency and safe operation of our customers’ critical and most energy-intensive plant assets.  

We augment our product portfolio with solutions and service offerings. We have expanded our portfolio of repeatable solutions, which enables us to gain efficiency, drive innovation and improve the global deployment of our solutions to our customers. The combination of our leading technologies with the industry-specific domain expertise of our people enables us to solve many of our customers’ manufacturing challenges.  

Global Expansion  

As the manufacturing world continues to globalize, we must be able to meet our customers’ needs in emerging markets. We expect to continue to add delivery resources and expand our sales force in emerging markets over the long term. We currently have approximately 60 percent of our employees outside the U.S., and 49 percent of our revenues outside of the U.S.  

As we expand in markets with considerable growth potential and shift our global footprint, we expect to continue to broaden the portfolio of products, solutions and services that we provide to our customers in these regions. We have made significant investments to globalize our manufacturing, product development and customer facing resources in order to be closer to our customers throughout the world. Growth in the emerging markets of Asia-Pacific, including China and India, Latin America, central and eastern Europe and Africa have the potential to exceed global GDP growth rates, due to higher levels of infrastructure investment and the growing impact of consumer spending in these markets. We believe that increased demand for consumer products in these markets will lead to manufacturing investment and provide us with additional growth opportunities in the future.  

Enhanced Market Access  

OEMs represent another growth opportunity. The OEM market is large and we have an opportunity to increase market share within it, particularly outside of North America. To remain competitive, OEMs need to continually improve their costs and machine performance and reduce their time to market. Our modular and scalable Logix offering, particularly when combined with motion and safety, can assist OEMs in addressing these business needs. We also continue to build out an improved portfolio for less complex OEM machines, which helps to expand our addressed market, especially in emerging economies.  

17   
We have developed a powerful network of channel partners, technology partners and commercial partners that act as amplifiers to our internal capabilities and enable us to serve our customers’ needs around the world.  

Broad Range of Industries Served  

We apply our knowledge of manufacturing applications to help customers solve their business challenges. We serve customers in a wide range of industries, including consumer products, resource-based and transportation.  

Our consumer products customers are engaged in the food and beverage, home and personal care and life sciences industries. These customers’ needs include new capacity, incremental capacity from existing facilities, an increasingly flexible manufacturing environment and regulatory compliance. These customers operate in an environment where product innovation and time to market are critical factors.  

We serve customers in resource-based industries, including oil and gas, mining, aggregates, cement, metals, pulp and paper and water/wastewater. Companies in these industries typically invest when commodity prices are relatively high and global demand for basic materials is increasing.  

In the transportation industry, factors such as geographic expansion, investment in new model introductions and more flexible manufacturing technologies influence customers’ automation purchasing decisions. Our sales in transportation are primarily to automotive and tire manufacturers.  

Outsourcing and Sustainability Trends  

Demand for our products, solutions and services across all industries benefits from the outsourcing and sustainability needs of our customers. Customers increasingly desire to outsource engineering services to achieve a more flexible cost base. Our manufacturing application knowledge enables us to serve these customers globally.  

We help our customers meet their sustainability needs pertaining to energy efficiency, environmental and safety goals. Higher energy prices have historically caused customers across all industries to invest in more energy-efficient manufacturing processes and technologies, such as intelligent motor control and energy efficient solutions and services. In addition, environmental and safety objectives often spur customers to invest to ensure compliance and implement sustainable business practices.  

Acquisitions  

Our acquisition strategy focuses on products, solutions or services that will be catalytic to the organic growth of our core offerings. In March 2009, we bought a majority of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of the automation business of Rutter Hinz Inc., which is expected to accelerate our business growth in Canada and in the oil and gas and other resource-based industries. In January 2009, we bought the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Xi’an Hengsheng Science & Technology Limited. This acquisition advances our globalization strategy and strengthens our ability to deliver project management and engineering solutions primarily to our customers in China.  

During 2008 we acquired CEDES Safety & Automation AG (CEDES), Incuity Software, Inc. (Incuity) and Pavilion Technologies, Inc. (Pavilion). With our acquisition of CEDES, we have expanded our comprehensive machine safety component portfolio. CEDES is a supplier of safety and measuring light curtains, a leading product offering in the machine safety market. Incuity positions us for continued success in the information solutions market. Incuity’s enterprise manufacturing intelligence offerings, which we have named FactoryTalk® VantagePoint, enable us to accelerate specific aspects of our plant-wide information strategy and extend the capabilities of our integrated architecture. We believe that Pavilion’s expertise in advanced process control, production optimization and environmental compliance solutions, paired with our Logix architecture, positions us to help our customers create a more agile, efficient and productive environment. It also benefits, in particular, our process growth initiative.  

We believe the acquired companies will help us expand our market share and deliver value to our customers.  

Continuous Improvement  

Productivity and continuous improvement are important components of our culture. We have programs in place that drive ongoing process improvement, functional streamlining, material cost savings and manufacturing productivity. We are in the process of developing and implementing common global processes and an enterprise-wide information system. These are intended to improve profitability that can be used to fund investment in growth and technology and to offset inflation. Our ongoing productivity initiatives target both cost reduction and improved asset utilization. Charges for workforce reductions and facility rationalization may be required in order to effectively execute our productivity programs.  

18   
U. S. Industrial Economic Trends  

In 2010, sales to U.S. customers accounted for 51 percent of our total sales. The various indicators we use to gauge the direction and momentum of our U.S. served markets include:  

   •   The Industrial Production Index (Total Index), published by the Federal Reserve, which measures the real output of manufacturing, mining, and electric and gas utilities. The Industrial Production Index is expressed as a percentage of real output in a base year, currently 2007. Historically there has been a meaningful correlation between the Industrial Production Index and the level of automation investment made by our U.S. customers in their manufacturing base.    

   •   The Manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI), published by the Institute for Supply Management (ISM), which is an indication of the current and near-term state of manufacturing activity in the U.S. According to the ISM, a PMI measure above 50 indicates that the U.S. manufacturing economy is generally expanding while a measure below 50 indicates that it is generally contracting.    

   •   Industrial Equipment Spending, which is an economic statistic compiled by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA). This statistic provides insight into spending trends in the broad U.S. industrial economy. This measure over the longer term has proven to demonstrate a reasonable correlation with our domestic growth.    

   •   Capacity Utilization (Total Industry), which is an indication of plant operating activity published by the Federal Reserve. Historically there has been a meaningful correlation between Capacity Utilization and levels of U.S. industrial production.    

The table below depicts the trends in these indicators from fiscal 2008 to 2010. The early part of the industrial recovery has been stronger than we expected. However, high unemployment and relatively low levels of capacity utilization continue to create uncertainty as to the pace of the recovery.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Note: Economic indicators are subject to revisions by the issuing organizations.  

19   
Non-U.S. Regional Trends  

In 2010, sales to non-U.S. customers accounted for 49 percent of our total sales. These customers include both indigenous companies and multinational companies with expanding global presence. In addition to the global factors previously mentioned, international demand, particularly in emerging markets, has historically been driven by the strength of the industrial economy in each region, investments in infrastructure and expanding consumer markets.  

We use changes in GDP as one indicator of the growth opportunities in each region where we do business. GDP either declined or grew slowly in all regions during fiscal 2009, contributing to reduced customer demand. Signs indicating economic growth in most regions began to appear in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and continued into fiscal 2010. GDP growth in Asia-Pacific, particularly the emerging countries including China and India, continued to exceed the global average, while growth in the European region continues to be below average. GDP growth in Latin America accelerated during 2010. Continued improvement in the global economy seems to indicate that the recovery is taking hold.  

Revenue by Geographic Region  

The table below presents our actual sales for the year ended September 30, 2010 by geographic region and the change in sales from the year ended September 30, 2009 (in millions, except percentages):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   We attribute sales to the geographic regions based upon country of destination.  

 (2)   Organic sales are sales excluding the effect of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions. See Supplemental Sales Information for information on this non-GAAP measure.   

20   
Summary of Results of Operations  

Sales in 2010 increased 12 percent compared to 2009, as an organic sales increase of 10 percent was enhanced by benefits from currency translation of 2 percentage points. Product sales grew 22 percent year over year reflecting improved maintenance repair & operations (MRO), smaller capital projects, and OEM demand. Sales growth in our solutions and services business lagged the recovery in product sales. In the first half of 2010, solutions and services sales declined year over year as a consequence of declining order rates in the second half of fiscal 2009. Order rates began to improve in the first half of fiscal 2010 resulting in year-over-year growth in solutions and services sales in the second half of 2010. For the full year, sales in our solutions and services business declined 4 percent.  

Asia-Pacific was our best performing region as organic sales increased 17 percent compared to 2009. Latin America and the United States also performed well as organic sales increased 11 percent in both regions year over year. Total sales in emerging markets increased 18 percent with an organic sales increase of 14 percent plus 4 percentage points from currency translation and acquisitions. Emerging markets now represent over 20 percent of total company sales.  

As a consequence of the rapid and large declines in sales in fiscal 2009 due to the severe global recession, we took aggressive actions to adjust our cost structure, including restructuring actions that were implemented throughout 2009, temporary employee pay and benefit reductions and general reductions in discretionary spending. During 2010, these actions contributed approximately $120 million of benefit to our current year results, consistent with our expectations.  

Our favorable results and improved outlook for the full year caused us to reverse our temporary employee pay cuts and restore the 401(k) company match effective January 1, 2010. We also implemented wage and salary increases for employees. As a result, employee costs, which also include performance-based compensation and sales incentives, increased by approximately $200 million, and pension and postretirement expense increased by $41 million in 2010 compared to 2009. In addition, we spent approximately $50 million more related to customer-facing resources, particularly in emerging markets, and innovation in our products, services and solutions offerings in 2010.  

21   
The following tables reflect our sales and operating results for the years ended September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (in millions, except per share amounts):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)   Information regarding how we define segment operating earnings is included in Note 18 in the Financial Statements.  

 (b)   Segment operating earnings in 2009 includes restructuring charges of $60.4 million. See Note 14 in the Financial Statements for information about restructuring charges and special items.  

 (c)   See Note 13 in the Financial Statements for a description of items reported as discontinued operations.   

22   
2010 Compared to 2009  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales  

Our sales increased $524.5 million, or 12 percent, from $4,332.5 million in 2009 to $4,857.0 million in 2010. An organic sales increase of 10 percent was enhanced by benefits from currency translation of 2 percentage points. We had positive performance in our product businesses across all regions, resulting from the recovery in worldwide macroeconomic conditions and industrial production during 2010. Pricing contributed less than 1 percentage point to growth during the period.  

Organic sales to customers in the Asia-Pacific region increased 17 percent, led by strength in the emerging markets, including China and India. Organic sales increased 11 and 7 percent in the United States and Canada, respectively. Organic sales increased in Latin America by 11 percent as recent growth offset declines earlier in the fiscal year. Organic sales increased 2 percent in EMEA, as declines in our solutions and services businesses that have been slower to recover offset growth in our product businesses.  

Sales growth in our solutions and services business lagged the recovery in product sales. In the first half of 2010, solutions and services sales declined year over year as a consequence of declining order rates in the second half of fiscal 2009. Order rates began to improve in the first half of fiscal 2010 resulting in year-over-year growth in solutions and services sales in the second half of 2010. For the full year, sales in our solutions and services business declined 4 percent.  

During 2010, sales in all of our end markets improved as the year progressed. For full-year 2010, the largest sales increases were to customers in the transportation industry.  

Income from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes  

Income from continuing operations before income taxes increased 102 percent from $217.9 million in 2009 to $440.4 million in 2010. Our strong performance reflects a continuing economic recovery. Gross profit margin increased by 3.7 points to 39.9 percent in 2010. Increased volume, restructuring savings and favorable mix contributed to the significant year-over-year margin improvement, partially offset by cost increases related to employee compensation, pension and postretirement expense and incremental spending to support growth.  

We saved approximately $120 million in 2010 as compared to 2009 related to benefits realized from restructuring actions taken in fiscal 2009, which was in line with our expectations. We recorded $60 million less of restructuring charges during 2010 compared to 2009, which also contributed to the year-over-year income improvement. These benefits were offset by increases of approximately $200 million for employee compensation, a $41 million increase in pension and postretirement expense and $50 million incremental spending to support growth in 2010 compared to 2009.  

Our Architecture & Software segment contributed 44 percent of our total sales in 2010, compared to 40 percent in 2009. During 2010 the Architecture & Software segment’s operating margin was 22.5 percent. The increase in percentage of sales by our higher-margin Architecture & Software segment caused a positive mix effect on operating margin.  

General corporate expenses were $93.6 million in 2010 compared to $80.3 million in 2009. The increase was primarily due to higher employee costs resulting from wage and salary increases as well as performance-based compensation. Selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of sales decreased by 0.9 points to 27.2 percent as volume increases outpaced spending increases.  

23   
Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for 2010 was 19.1 percent compared to 20.4 percent in 2009. The 2010 and 2009 effective tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35 percent because we benefited from lower non-US tax rates.  

The 2010 rate was lower than 2009 because we benefited from a higher proportionate share of income in lower tax rate jurisdictions as compared to 2009. We also recognized discrete tax benefits of $27.2 million primarily related to the favorable resolution of tax matters, partially offset by discrete tax expenses of $9.6 million primarily related to the impact of a change in Mexican tax law and interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in 2010. During 2009, we also recognized discrete tax benefits of $20.5 million related to the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research tax credit, the resolution of a contractual tax obligation and various state tax matters, partially offset by discrete tax expenses of $4.2 million related to a non-U.S. subsidiary.  

See Note 16 in the Financial Statements for a complete reconciliation of the United States statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate and more information on tax events in 2010 and 2009 affecting the respective tax rates.  

Discontinued Operations  

Income from discontinued operations increased $21.1 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to a $21.3 million tax benefit resulting from the resolution of a domestic tax matter relating to the January 2007 sale of our Dodge mechanical and Reliance Electric motors and repair services businesses.  

24   
Architecture & Software  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales  

Architecture & Software sales increased 23 percent to $2,115.0 million in 2010 compared to $1,723.5 million in 2009. Organic sales increased 20 percent, and the effects of currency translation contributed 3 percentage points to the total increase. Substantially all of the organic sales increase was the result of an increase in volume due to improving macroeconomic conditions in most regions and industries. Pricing had only a minor impact on revenue during the period. Canada and Latin America year-over-year sales increases were greater than the segment average rate of increase, while year-over-year sales increases to customers in the United States and Asia-Pacific were consistent with the segment average rate of increase. Year-over-year sales increases to customers in EMEA were slightly below the segment average rate of increase. Logix sales increased 25 percent in 2010 compared to 2009.  

Operating Margin  

Architecture & Software segment operating earnings were $475.4 million in 2010, up 113 percent from $223.0 million in 2009. Operating margin increased 9.6 points to 22.5 percent in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase was predominantly due to volume increases as a result of higher worldwide levels of industrial production and capital spending by our customers. Approximately half of the restructuring cost savings, additional employee compensation, additional pension and postretirement expenses and incremental spending to support growth described above applied to the Architecture & Software segment.  

Control Products & Solutions  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales  

Control Products & Solutions sales increased 5 percent to $2,742.0 million in 2010 compared to $2,609.0 million in 2009. Organic sales increased 2 percent, and the effects of currency translation and acquisitions contributed 2 percentage points and 1 percentage point, respectively. The segment’s modest organic sales growth was primarily attributable to robust growth in the products businesses in 2010 offset by declines in solutions and services sales reflecting the decline in order rates that we experienced in the second half of 2009. While the decline in order rates led to significant sales declines in the first half of 2010, order rates recovered and after the normal lag associated with our solution and services sales, we began to see revenue increases in these businesses in the second half of 2010. Asia-Pacific and Canada both reported double-digit year-over-year overall segment growth, benefiting $2.7 million and $12.2 million, respectively, from recent acquisitions. EMEA reported year-over-year overall segment sales declines during 2010, while sales in the United States and Latin America increased consistent with the segment average. The impact of pricing on the segment’s sales increase was insignificant.  

Operating Margin  

Control Products & Solutions segment operating earnings were $241.8 million in 2010, up 17 percent from $206.7 million in the same period of 2009. Operating margin increased 0.9 points to 8.8 percent in 2010 as compared to 2009. Approximately half of the restructuring cost savings, additional employee compensation, additional pension and postretirement expenses and incremental spending to support growth described above applied to the Control Products & Solutions segment. Positive mix attributable to the shift toward product sales from solutions and services sales contributed to the margin improvement.  

25   
2009 Compared to 2008  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales  

Sales decreased 24 percent in 2009 compared to 2008. The effects of currency translation contributed 5 percentage points to the decrease. We experienced a significant decline in customer demand during 2009 due to deteriorating economic, financial and credit market conditions in most regions and industries. Sales to customers in the United States declined 22 percent organically as compared to 2008, as plant shutdowns occurred and production slowed across many industries. The Canadian organic sales decline of 28 percent compared to 2008 was driven by weakness in all industrial sectors, including transportation and general manufacturing. Sales to customers in EMEA declined 19 percent organically compared to 2008. EMEA weakness occurred in all industries as well as in sales to OEMs, due to a large number of plant shutdowns and production cutbacks. Organic sales in Asia-Pacific declined by 11 percent compared to 2008. Korea and Japan contributed most to the decline in the region. Organic sales in Latin America declined by 6 percent as compared to 2008. The Latin America region benefited from demand in resource-based industries during the first two quarters of the year, but experienced year-over-year organic sales declines in the second half of the year.  

In 2009 we experienced significant year-over-year declines in all of our end markets, including transportation, metals, and to a lesser extent, consumer products industries. However, the decline in process sales was lower than our average rate of decline.  

Purchase Accounting Depreciation and Amortization  

Purchase accounting depreciation and amortization was $18.6 million in 2009 compared to $24.2 million in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to completed amortization of certain intangible assets and currency translation.  

General Corporate — Net  

General corporate expenses were $80.3 million in 2009 compared to $77.2 million in 2008. The increase was primarily due to increased charitable contributions and a gain recognized in the first nine months of 2008 in connection with the divestiture of Power Systems, partially offset by cost reductions.  

Interest Expense  

Interest expense was $60.9 million in 2009 compared to $68.2 million in 2008. The decrease was due to lower interest rates and lower short-term debt balances.  

Income Taxes  

The effective tax rate for 2009 was 20.4 percent compared to 28.6 percent in 2008. The 2009 and 2008 effective tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35 percent because we benefited from lower tax rates on income outside the United States and in 2008 we benefited from the use of foreign tax credits.  

The 2009 rate was lower than 2008 because we benefited from a lower proportionate share of income in higher tax rate jurisdictions as compared to 2008. During 2009, we also recognized discrete tax benefits of $20.5 million related to the retroactive extension of the U.S. federal research tax credit, the resolution of a contractual tax obligation and various state tax matters, partially offset by discrete tax expenses of $4.2 million related to a non-U.S. subsidiary.  

See Note 16 in the Financial Statements for a complete reconciliation of the United States statutory tax rate to the effective tax rate and more information on tax events in 2009 and 2008 affecting the respective tax rates.  

26   
Income from Continuing Operations  

Income from continuing operations decreased 62 percent in 2009 to $217.9 million, compared to 2008. The decrease is primarily due to our significant decline in sales volume. Inflation, the unfavorable impact of currency exchange rates and restructuring charges also contributed to the decrease. These items were partially offset by cost reductions, lower interest expense and a lower effective tax rate.  

During 2009, we recorded restructuring charges of $60.4 million ($41.8 million after tax, or $0.29 per diluted share) related to actions designed to better align our cost structure with current economic conditions. We recorded $35.2 million of the restructuring charges as a reduction of Architecture & Software operating earnings and $25.2 million as a reduction of Control Products & Solutions operating earnings. Special items of $4.0 million in 2009 include the reversal of a portion of restructuring accruals established in prior years.  

During 2008, we recorded restructuring charges of $50.7 million ($34.0 million after tax, or $0.23 per diluted share) related to actions designed to better align resources with growth opportunities and to reduce costs as a result of current and anticipated market conditions. This charge was partially offset by the reversal of $4.0 million ($3.6 million net of tax or $0.02 per diluted share) of severance accruals established as part of our 2007 restructuring actions, as employee attrition differed from our original estimates. We recorded these net charges in special items in 2008.  

See Note 14 in the Financial Statements for more information on restructuring charges and special items.  

Architecture & Software  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales  

Architecture & Software sales decreased 29 percent in 2009 compared to 2008 as plant shutdowns occurred and production slowed across many industries. Organic sales decreased 24 percent, as the effects of currency translation contributed approximately 5 percentage points to the decline. We experienced year-over-year declines in sales of this segment as a result of the global recession and the short-cycle nature of this segment’s sales activities. Logix sales declined 17 percent in 2009 compared to 2008, while the decline in sales of our legacy processor products was greater than the segment’s average rate of decline.  

Operating Margin  

Architecture & Software segment operating margin decreased by 11.3 points to 12.9 percent in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease was primarily due to significant declines in sales volume. The unfavorable impact of currency exchange rates and restructuring charges also contributed to the decrease, partially offset by cost reductions.  

27   
Control Products & Solutions  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales  

Control Products & Solutions sales decreased 20 percent in 2009 compared to 2008. Organic sales decreased 15 percent as the effects of currency translation contributed 5 percentage points to the decrease. We experienced significant year-over-year declines in sales by the products businesses of this segment as a result of the global recession and the short-cycle nature of these businesses’ sales activities. Sales by our solutions and services businesses declined at a lower rate than the segment’s average rate of decline, as we delivered solutions from our backlog.  

Operating Margin  

Control Products & Solutions segment operating margin decreased by 5.5 points to 7.9 percent in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease resulted primarily from significant declines in sales volume. Inflation, the unfavorable impact of currency exchange rates and restructuring charges also contributed to the decrease, which was partially offset by cost reductions.  

28   
Financial Condition  

The following is a summary of our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The following table summarizes free cash flow (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Our definition of free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, takes into consideration capital investments required to maintain the operations of our businesses and execute our strategy. Our accounting for share-based compensation requires us to report the related excess income tax benefit as a financing cash flow rather than as an operating cash flow. We have added this benefit back to our calculation of free cash flow in order to generally classify cash flows arising from income taxes as operating cash flows. In our opinion, free cash flow provides useful information to investors regarding our ability to generate cash from business operations that is available for acquisitions and other investments, service of debt principal, dividends and share repurchases. We use free cash flow as one measure to monitor and evaluate performance. Our definition of free cash flow may differ from definitions used by other companies.  

Our definition of free cash flow excludes the operating cash flows and capital expenditures related to our discontinued operations. Operating, investing and financing cash flows of our discontinued operations are presented separately in our statement of cash flows. Cash flows from the operating activities of our discontinued operations are reported in our statement of cash flows net of their separately calculated income tax effects. U.S. federal and state income taxes paid as a result of the gain on sale of the principal businesses of our former Power Systems operating segment have been classified within continuing operations consistent with the cash proceeds. These taxes paid in 2008 have been excluded from free cash flow to present free cash flow that is representative of the performance of our continuing businesses.  

Free cash flow was a source of $410.7 million for the year ended September 30, 2010 compared to a source of $430.8 million for the year ended September 30, 2009. This decrease in free cash flow is primarily due to a discretionary pre-tax contribution of $150 million to our U.S. pension trust and increased working capital, partially offset by improvements in current year earnings and reduced incentive compensation payments. The working capital increase was largely attributable to significant increases in inventory and accounts receivable and was partially offset by an increase in accounts payable levels. These changes restored working capital to levels reflective of current demand. The reduced incentive compensation payments were a function of timing and varying levels of earned incentives in 2009 compared to 2008. Incentive compensation payments generally occur in the first quarter of the year following the year in which the incentive is earned. Incentive compensation payments were lower than normal in 2010 as difficult economic conditions resulted in reduced or zero earned incentives for 2009 in most of our employee incentive compensation plans. We will pay substantially all of the incentive compensation earned for 2010 performance in the first quarter of 2011.  

In December 2007, we issued an aggregate of $500 million principal amount of our 5.65% notes due 2017 and 6.25% debentures due 2037. The debt offering yielded approximately $493.5 million of proceeds, which were used to repay at maturity our 6.15% notes due January 15, 2008 and for general corporate purposes.  

Commercial paper is our principal source of short-term financing. At September 30, 2010 and 2009, we had no commercial paper borrowings outstanding. During 2010, we had no commercial paper borrowings outstanding.  

29   
We repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock in 2010. The total cost of these shares was $120.0 million, of which $1.2 million was recorded in accounts payable at September 30, 2010, related to 19,700 shares that did not settle until October 2010. In 2009, we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares of our common stock, all of which occurred in October 2008. The total cost of these shares was $50.0 million. Our decision to repurchase stock in 2011 will depend on business conditions, free cash flow generation, other cash requirements and stock price. At September 30, 2010 we had approximately $501.2 million remaining for stock repurchases under our existing board authorization. See Part II, Item 5, Market for the Company’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, for additional information regarding share repurchases.  

We expect future uses of cash to include working capital requirements, capital expenditures, additional contributions to our pension plans, acquisitions of businesses, dividends to shareowners, repurchases of common stock and repayments of debt. We expect capital expenditures in 2011 to be about $120 million. We expect to fund these future uses of cash with a combination of existing cash balances, cash generated by operating activities, commercial paper borrowings or a new issuance of debt or other securities.  

In addition to cash generated by operating activities, we have access to existing financing sources, including the public debt markets and unsecured credit facilities with various banks. Our debt-to-total-capital ratio was 38.3 percent at September 30, 2010 and 40.7 percent at September 30, 2009. This decrease is primarily due to the net increase in shareowners’ equity.  

On March 16, 2009, we replaced our former five-year $600.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with two new unsecured revolving credit facilities totaling $535.0 million, each with an individual borrowing limit of $267.5 million. One facility has a three-year term and the other facility had a 364-day term. On March 15, 2010, we replaced our former 364-day $267.5 million unsecured revolving credit facility with a new 364-day $300.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, increasing our current borrowing capacity under the two facilities to $567.5 million. The new credit facility includes a term-out option that allows us to borrow, on March 14, 2011, up to $300.0 million as a term loan for one year. We have not drawn down under any of these credit facilities at September 30, 2010 or 2009. Borrowings under these credit facilities bear interest based on short-term money market rates in effect during the period the borrowings are outstanding. The terms of these credit facilities contain covenants under which we would be in default if our debt-to-total-capital ratio was to exceed 60 percent. We were in compliance with all covenants under these credit facilities at September 30, 2010 and 2009. Separate short-term unsecured credit facilities of approximately $135.3 million at September 30, 2010 were available to non-U.S. subsidiaries.  

The following is a summary of our credit ratings as of September 30, 2010:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Among other uses, we can draw on our credit facilities as standby liquidity facilities to repay our outstanding commercial paper as it matures. This access to funds to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the commercial paper ratings set forth in the table above. Under our current policy with respect to these ratings, we expect to limit our other borrowings under our credit facilities, if any, to amounts that would leave enough credit available under the facilities so that we could borrow, if needed, to repay all of our then outstanding commercial paper as it matures.  

Our ability to access the commercial paper market and the related costs of these borrowings are affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. We have not experienced any difficulty in accessing the commercial paper market to date. If our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a change in market conditions or otherwise, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash and our unsecured committed credit facility to provide short-term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under our unsecured committed credit facility could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings.  

We regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. Our emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities.  

30   
We enter into contracts to offset changes in the amount of future cash flows associated with certain third-party sales and intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies forecasted to occur within the next two years and to offset transaction gains or losses associated with some of our assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than their functional currencies resulting from intercompany loans and other transactions with third parties denominated in foreign currencies. Our foreign currency forward exchange contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. We diversify our foreign currency forward exchange contracts among counterparties to minimize exposure to any one of these entities.  

Cash dividends to shareowners were $173.6 million in 2010 ($1.22 per common share). Cash dividends to shareowners were $164.5 million in 2009 and $170.2 million in 2008 ($1.16 per common share each year). Our current quarterly dividend rate is $0.35 per common share ($1.40 per common share annually), which is determined at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors.  

A summary of our projected contractual cash obligations at September 30, 2010 are (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (a)   The amounts for long-term debt assume that the respective debt instruments will be outstanding until their scheduled maturity dates. The amounts include interest, but exclude the unamortized discount of $45.2 million. See Note 6 in the Financial Statements for more information regarding our long-term debt.  

 (b)   Our postretirement plans are unfunded and are subject to change. Amounts reported are estimates of future benefit payments, to the extent estimable.  

 (c)   Amounts reported for pension funding contributions reflect current estimates of known commitments. Contributions to our pension plans beyond 2011 will depend on future investment performance of our pension plan assets, changes in discount rate assumptions and governmental regulations in effect at the time. Amounts subsequent to 2011 are excluded from the summary above, as these amounts cannot be estimated with certainty. The minimum contribution for our U.S. pension plan as required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) is currently zero. We may make additional contributions to this plan at the discretion of management.  

 (d)   This item includes long-term obligations under agreements with various service providers.  

 (e)   Other long-term liabilities include environmental liabilities net of related receivables, asset retirement obligations, and indemnifications. Amounts subsequent to 2011 are excluded from the summary above, as we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when the liabilities will be paid.  

 (f)   Amount for unrecognized tax benefits includes accrued interest and penalties. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when the liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits will be settled or paid.   

Supplemental Sales Information  

We translate sales of subsidiaries operating outside of the United States using exchange rates effective during the respective period. Therefore, changes in currency rates affect our reported sales. Sales by businesses we acquired also affect our reported sales. We believe that organic sales, defined as sales excluding the effects of changes in currency exchange rates and acquisitions, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, provides useful information to investors because it reflects regional performance from the activities of our businesses without the effect of changes in currency rates or acquisitions. We use organic sales as one measure to monitor and evaluate our regional performance. We determine the effect of changes in currency exchange rates by translating the respective period’s sales using the currency exchange rates that were in effect during the prior year. We determine the effect of acquisitions by excluding sales in the current period for which there are no sales in the comparable prior period. Organic sales growth is calculated by comparing organic sales to reported sales in the prior year. We attribute sales to the geographic regions based on the country of destination.  

31   
The following is a reconciliation of our reported sales to organic sales (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The following is a reconciliation of our reported sales by operating segment to organic sales (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

32   
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

We have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and revenues and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies could have the most significant effect on our reported results or require subjective or complex judgments by management.  

Retirement Benefits  

Pension Benefits  

Pension costs and obligations are actuarially determined and are influenced by assumptions used to estimate these amounts, including the discount rate, the expected rate of return on plan assets, the assumed annual compensation increase rate, the retirement rate, the mortality rate and the employee turnover rate. Changes in any of the assumptions and the amortization of differences between the assumptions and actual experience will affect the amount of pension expense in future periods.  

Our global pension expense in 2010 was $75.0 million compared to $32.7 million in 2009. Approximately 67 percent of our 2010 global pension expense relates to our U.S. pension plan. The actuarial assumptions used to determine our 2010 U.S. pension expense included the following: discount rate of 6.20 percent (compared to 6.75 percent for 2009); expected rate of return on plan assets of 8.00 percent (compared to 8.00 percent for 2009); and an assumed long-term compensation increase rate of 4.30 percent (compared to 4.20 percent for 2009).  

We changed our measurement date in 2009 from June 30 to September 30 as required by U.S. GAAP. We recorded a reduction in retained earnings of $8.2 million ($5.3 million net of tax) in the fourth quarter of 2009 related to this change.  

The Pension Protection Act of 2006 was signed into law in August 2006. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued final guidance with respect to certain aspects of this law; and, our 2010 pension plan valuation has been completed based on the final guidance. Based on this valuation, no minimum contributions were required in 2010.  

We estimate our pension expense will be approximately $90.9 million in 2011, an increase of approximately $15.9 million from 2010. For 2011, our U.S. discount rate will decrease to 5.60 percent. The discount rate was set as of our September 30 measurement date and was determined by modeling a portfolio of bonds that match the expected cash flow of our benefit plans. We have assumed a U.S. long-term compensation increase rate of 4.00 percent in 2011. We established this rate by analyzing all elements of compensation that are pension-eligible earnings. Our expected rate of return on U.S. plan assets will remain at 8.00 percent. In estimating the expected return on plan assets, we considered actual returns on plan assets over the long term, adjusted for forward-looking considerations, such as inflation, interest rates, equity performance and the active management of the plans’ invested assets. We also considered our current and expected mix of plan assets in setting this assumption. The target allocations and ranges of expected return for our major categories of U.S. plan assets are as follows:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The financial markets rallied significantly in 2010, recovering some of the losses incurred during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009. The plan’s Equity Securities return exceeded the expected return range in 2010, largely due to strong U.S. equity returns. The plan’s Debt Securities return also exceeded the expected return range in 2010, as lower market interest rates resulted in higher bond values. While the financial markets continue to experience volatility, we have not changed our expectation for long-term returns for the asset categories in which our plan assets are invested. Actual return for our portfolio of U.S. plan assets has approximated 8.00 percent annualized for the 15 years ended September 30, 2010, and has exceeded 9.00 percent annualized for the 20 years ended September 30, 2010.  

33   
The changes in our discount rate and return on plan assets have an inverse relationship with our net periodic benefit cost. The change in our discount rate also has an inverse relationship with our projected benefit obligation. The change in our compensation increase rate has a direct relationship with our net periodic benefit cost and projected benefit obligation. The following chart illustrates the estimated change in benefit obligation and annual net periodic pension cost assuming a change of 25 basis points in the key assumptions for our U.S. pension plans (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

More information regarding pension benefits is contained in Note 12 in the Financial Statements.  

Other Postretirement Benefits  

We estimate the costs and obligations for postretirement benefits other than pensions using assumptions, including the discount rate and, for plans other than our primary U.S. postretirement healthcare benefit program, expected trends in the cost for healthcare services. Changes in these assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual experience will affect the amount of postretirement benefit expense recognized in future periods. The discount rate used to calculate our 2010 other postretirement benefits expense was 6.00 percent (compared to 6.50 percent in 2009). For 2011, the discount rate assumption for other postretirement benefit expense will decrease to 5.10 percent. The discount rate was set as of our September 30 measurement date and was determined by modeling a portfolio of bonds that match the expected cash flow of our benefit plans.  

Effective October 1, 2002, we amended our primary U.S. postretirement healthcare benefit program in order to mitigate our share of the increasing cost of postretirement healthcare services. As a result of this amendment, our obligation is less sensitive to increasing healthcare costs resulting from inflationary trends since January 1, 2005.  

We changed our measurement date in 2009 from June 30 to September 30 as required by U.S. GAAP. We recorded a reduction in retained earnings of $4.0 million ($2.5 million net of tax) in the fourth quarter of 2009 related to this change.  

Net periodic benefit cost in 2010 was $14.1 million compared to $15.8 million in 2009. We estimate net periodic benefit cost will be approximately $9.5 million in 2011.  

More information regarding postretirement benefits is contained in Note 12 in the Financial Statements.  

34   
Revenue Recognition  

For approximately 85 percent of our consolidated sales, we record sales when all of the following have occurred: an agreement of sale exists; pricing is fixed or determinable; collection is reasonably assured; and product has been delivered and acceptance has occurred, as may be required according to contract terms, or services have been rendered.  

We recognize substantially all of the remainder of our sales as construction-type contracts using either the percentage-of-completion or completed contract methods of accounting. We record sales relating to these contracts using the percentage-of-completion method when we determine that progress toward completion is reasonably and reliably estimable; we use the completed contract method for all others. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we recognize sales and gross profit as work is performed using either (i) the relationship between actual costs incurred and total estimated costs at completion or (ii) units-of-delivery. Under the percentage-of-completion method, we adjust sales and gross profit for revisions of estimated total contract costs or revenue in the period the change is identified. We record estimated losses on contracts when they are identified.  

We use contracts and customer purchase orders to determine the existence of an agreement of sale. We use shipping documents and customer acceptance, when applicable, to verify delivery. We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction and whether the sales price is subject to refund or adjustment. We assess collectibility based on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit evaluations and analysis, as well as the customer’s payment history.  

Returns, Rebates and Incentives  

Our primary incentive program provides distributors with cash rebates or account credits based on agreed amounts that vary depending on the customer to whom our distributor ultimately sells the product. We also offer various other incentive programs that provide distributors and direct sale customers with cash rebates, account credits or additional products and services based on meeting specified program criteria. Certain distributors are offered a right to return product, subject to contractual limitations.  

We record accruals for customer returns, rebates and incentives at the time of revenue recognition based primarily on historical experience. Adjustments to the accrual may be required if actual returns, rebates and incentives differ from historical experience or if there are changes to other assumptions used to estimate the accrual. A critical assumption used in estimating the accrual for our primary distributor rebate program is the time period from when revenue is recognized to when the rebate is processed. If the time period were to change by 10 percent, the effect would be an adjustment to the accrual of approximately $7.9 million.  

Returns, rebates and incentives are recognized as a reduction of sales if distributed in cash or customer account credits. Rebates and incentives are recognized in cost of sales for additional products and services to be provided. Accruals are reported as a current liability in our balance sheet or, where a right of offset exists, as a reduction of accounts receivable. The accrual for customer returns, rebates and incentives was $135.9 million at September 30, 2010 and $116.1 million at September 30, 2009, of which $16.4 million at September 30, 2010 and $8.8 million at September 30, 2009 was included as an offset to accounts receivable.  

35   
Reserves for Litigation, Claims and Contingencies  

We record liabilities for litigation, claims and contingencies when an obligation is probable and when we have a basis to reasonably estimate the value of an obligation. We also record liabilities for environmental matters based on estimates for known environmental remediation exposures. The liabilities include accruals for sites we currently own or operate or formerly owned or operated and third-party sites where we were determined to be a potentially responsible party. At third-party environmental sites where more than one potentially responsible party has been identified, we record a liability for our estimated allocable share of costs related to our involvement with the site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to the involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At environmental sites where we are the only responsible party, we record a liability for the total estimated costs of remediation. We do not discount future expenditures for environmental remediation obligations to their present value. Environmental liability estimates may be affected by changing determinations of what constitutes an environmental exposure or an acceptable level of cleanup. To the extent that remediation procedures change, additional contamination is identified, or the financial condition of other potentially responsible parties is adversely affected, the estimate of our environmental liabilities may change.  

Our reserve for environmental matters was $37.1 million, net of related receivables of $25.0 million, at September 30, 2010 and $33.4 million, net of related receivables of $24.8 million, at September 30, 2009. Our recorded liability for environmental matters relates almost entirely to businesses formerly owned by us (legacy businesses) for which we retained the responsibility to remediate. The nature of our current business is such that the likelihood of new environmental exposures that could result in a significant charge to earnings is low. As a result of remediation efforts at legacy sites and limited new environmental matters, we expect that gradually, over a long period of time, our environmental obligations will decline. However, changes in remediation procedures at existing legacy sites or discovery of contamination at additional sites could result in increases to our environmental obligations.  

Our principal self-insurance programs include product liability where we are self-insured up to a specified dollar amount. Claims exceeding this amount up to specified limits are covered by policies issued by commercial insurers. We estimate the reserve for product liability claims using our claims experience for the periods being valued. Adjustments to the product liability reserves may be required to reflect emerging claims experience and other factors such as inflationary trends or the outcome of claims. The reserve for product liability claims was $17.6 million at September 30, 2010 and $16.8 million at September 30, 2009.  

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or asserted against us relating to the conduct of our business. As described in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings, we have been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos that was used in certain components of our products many years ago. See Part I, Item 3 for further discussion.  

We accrue for costs related to the legal obligation associated with the retirement of a tangible long-lived asset that results from the acquisition, construction, development or the normal operation of the long-lived asset. The obligation to perform the asset retirement activity is not conditional even though the timing or method may be conditional. Identified conditional asset retirement obligations include asbestos abatement and remediation of soil contamination beneath current and previously divested facilities. We estimate conditional asset retirement obligations using site-specific knowledge and historical industry expertise. A significant change in the costs or timing could have a significant effect on our estimates. We recorded these liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet, which totaled $7.9 million in other current liabilities and $22.7 million in other liabilities at September 30, 2010 and $2.9 million in other current liabilities and $23.9 million in other liabilities at September 30, 2009.  

In conjunction with the sale of our Dodge mechanical and Reliance Electric motors and motor repair services businesses, we agreed to indemnify Baldor Electric Company for costs and damages related to certain legacy legal, environmental and asbestos matters of these businesses arising before January 31, 2007, for which the maximum exposure is capped at the amount received for the sale. We estimate the potential future payments we could incur under these indemnifications may approximate $20.6 million, of which $6.4 million and $11.1 million has been accrued in other current liabilities and $11.1 million and $11.3 million has been accrued in other liabilities at September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A significant change in the costs or timing could have a significant effect on our estimates.  

More information regarding litigation, claims and contingencies is contained in Note 17 in the Financial Statements.  

36   
Income Taxes  

We operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions and are subject to regular examinations by U.S. Federal, state and foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, we have retained tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds in connection with various divestitures of businesses in prior years. Our income tax positions are based on research and interpretations of the income tax laws and rulings in each of the jurisdictions in which we do business. Due to the subjectivity of interpretations of laws and rulings in each jurisdiction, the differences and interplay in tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the inherent uncertainty in estimating the final resolution of complex tax audit matters, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments.  

While we have support for the positions we take on our tax returns, taxing authorities may assert interpretations of laws and facts and may challenge cross jurisdictional transactions. Cross jurisdictional transactions between our subsidiaries involving the transfer price for products, services, and/or intellectual property as well as various U.S. state tax matters comprise our more significant income tax exposures. We recognized a $6.7 million decrease in shareowners’ equity as of October 1, 2008 related to a change in accounting for uncertain tax positions in accordance with changes in U.S. GAAP. The gross liability for unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest and penalties, was recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet in the amount of $66.3 million at September 30, 2010 and $116.7 million at September 30, 2009. The amount of net unrecognized tax benefits that would reduce our effective tax rate for continuing operations if recognized was $9.5 million at September 30, 2010 and $40.9 million at September 30, 2009. In addition, the amount of net unrecognized tax benefits that would be reported in discontinued operations if recognized was $5.7 million at September 30, 2010 and $26.7 million at September 30, 2009. We recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense. Total accrued interest and penalties were $26.6 million at September 30, 2010 and $27.6 million at September 30, 2009. We believe it is reasonably possible that the amount of net unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced by up to $29.7 million during the next 12 months as a result of the resolution of worldwide tax matters and the lapses of statutes of limitations.  

We recorded a valuation allowance for a portion of our deferred tax assets related to net operating loss, tax credit, and capital loss carryforwards (Carryforwards) and certain temporary differences in the amount of $26.7 million at September 30, 2010 and $43.8 million at September 30, 2009 based on the projected profitability of the entity in the respective tax jurisdiction. The valuation allowance is based on an evaluation of the uncertainty that the Carryforwards and certain temporary differences will be realized. Our income would increase if we determine we will be able to use more Carryforwards or certain temporary differences than currently expected.  

At the end of each interim reporting period, we estimate a base effective tax rate that we expect for the full fiscal year based on our most recent forecast of pretax income, permanent book and tax differences and global tax planning strategies. We use this base rate to provide for income taxes on a year-to-date basis, excluding the effect of significant unusual or extraordinary items and items that are reported net of their related tax effects. We record the tax effect of significant unusual or extraordinary items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur.  

More information regarding income taxes is contained in Note 16 in the Financial Statements.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

See Note 1 in the Financial Statements regarding recent accounting pronouncements.  

37   
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk