Item 1. Business  

General  

Rockwell Automation, Inc. (the Company or Rockwell Automation) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve a competitive advantage for their businesses. The Company continues the business founded as the Allen-Bradley Company in 1903. The privately-owned Allen-Bradley Company was a leading North American manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former Rockwell International Corporation (RIC) purchased it in 1985. Our products and services are designed to meet our customers’ needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce manufacturing business risk.  

The Company was incorporated in Delaware in 1996 in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on December 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the A&D Business) to The Boeing Company (Boeing). In the reorganization, RIC contributed all of its businesses, other than the A&D Business, to the Company and distributed all capital stock of the Company to RIC’s shareowners. Boeing then acquired RIC. RIC was incorporated in 1928.  

We divested our Dodge mechanical and Reliance Electric motors and motor repair services businesses in 2007. These were the principal businesses of our former Power Systems operating segment. The results of operations of these businesses are reported in income from discontinued operations in the Financial Statements for all periods presented.  

As used herein, the terms “we”, “us”, “our”, the “Company” or “Rockwell Automation” include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.  

Whenever an Item of this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to information in our Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on February 1, 2011 (the 2011 Proxy Statement), or to information under specific captions in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), or in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (the Financial Statements), the information is incorporated in that Item by reference. All date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated.  

3   
Operating Segments  

We have two operating segments: Architecture & Software and Control Products & Solutions. In 2010, our total sales were $4.9 billion. Financial information with respect to our operating segments, including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2010, is contained under the caption Results of Operations in MD&A, and in Note 18 in the Financial Statements.  

Our Architecture & Software operating segment is headquartered in Mayfield Heights, Ohio, and our Control Products & Solutions operating segment is headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Both operating segments conduct business globally. Products for both segments are marketed primarily under the Allen-Bradley®, A-B®, Rockwell Software®, ICS Triplex™ and FactoryTalk® brand names. Major markets served by both segments include food and beverage, transportation, oil and gas, metals, mining, home and personal care, pulp and paper and life sciences.  

Architecture & Software  

Our Architecture & Software operating segment recorded sales of $2.1 billion (44 percent of our total sales) in 2010. The Architecture & Software segment contains all of the hardware, software and communication components of our integrated control and information architecture capable of controlling the customer’s industrial processes and connecting with their manufacturing enterprise. Architecture & Software has a broad portfolio of products, including:  

   •   Control platforms that perform multiple control disciplines and monitoring of applications, including discrete, batch and continuous process, drives control, motion control and machine safety control. Products include controllers, electronic operator interface devices, electronic input/output devices, communication and networking products and industrial computers. The information-enabled Logix controllers provide integrated multi-discipline control that is modular and scalable.    

   •   Software products that include configuration and visualization software used to operate and supervise control platforms, advanced process control software and manufacturing execution software (MES) that enables customers to improve manufacturing productivity and meet regulatory requirements. Examples of MES applications are production scheduling, asset management, tracking, genealogy and manufacturing business intelligence.    

   •   Other products, including rotary and linear motion control products, sensors and machine safety components.    

The major competitors of our Architecture & Software operating segment include Siemens AG, Mitsubishi Corp., ABB Ltd, Honeywell International Inc., Schneider Electric SA and Emerson Electric Co.  

Control Products & Solutions  

Our Control Products & Solutions operating segment recorded 2010 sales of $2.8 billion (56 percent of our total sales). The Control Products & Solutions segment combines a comprehensive portfolio of intelligent motor control and industrial control products, application knowledge and project management necessary to implement an automation or information solution on the plant floor and total life-cycle customer support and maintenance. This comprehensive portfolio includes:  

   •   Low and medium voltage electro-mechanical and electronic motor starters, motor and circuit protection devices, AC/DC variable frequency drives, contactors, push buttons, signaling devices, termination and protection devices, relays, timers and condition sensors.    

   •   Solutions ranging from value-added packaged solutions such as configured drives and motor control centers to automation and information solutions where we provide design and integration for custom-engineered hardware and software systems primarily for manufacturing applications.    

   •   Services designed to help maximize a customer’s automation investment and provide total life-cycle support, including multi-vendor customer technical support and repair, asset management, training and predictive and preventative maintenance.    

The major competitors of our Control Products & Solutions operating segment include Siemens AG, ABB Ltd, Schneider Electric SA, Honeywell International Inc. and Emerson Electric Co.  

4   
Geographic Information  

In 2010, sales to customers in the United States accounted for 51 percent of our total sales. Outside the United States, we sell in every region. The largest sales outside the United States on a country-of-destination basis are in Canada, China, Italy, the United Kingdom and Brazil. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside of the United States. Sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in Note 18 in the Financial Statements.  

Competition  

Depending on the product or service involved, our competitors range from large diversified businesses that sell products outside of industrial automation, to smaller companies that specialize in niche products and services. Factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology leadership, knowledge of customer applications, installed base, distribution network, quality of products and services, global presence and price.  

Distribution  

In the United States and Canada, we sell our products, solutions and services primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. Outside the United States and Canada, we sell products, solutions and services through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. Globally, our independent distributors typically do not carry products that compete with Allen-Bradley® products. Sales to our largest distributor in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales.  

Research and Development  

Our research and development spending for the years ended September 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $198.9 million, $170.0 million, and $191.3 million, respectively. Customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2010, 2009 or 2008.  

Employees  

At September 30, 2010 we had approximately 19,000 employees. Approximately 8,000 were employed in the United States.  

Raw Materials and Supplies  

We purchase many items of equipment, components and materials used to produce our products from others. The raw materials essential to the conduct of each of our business segments generally are available at competitive prices. Although we have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors, we depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers.  

Backlog  

Our total order backlog at September 30 was (in millions):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2011 were approximately $117.0 million as of September 30, 2010.  

5   
Environmental Protection Requirements  

Information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in Note 17 in the Financial Statements. See also Item 3. Legal Proceedings.  

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks  

We own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. Various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. We believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. While in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property.  

The Company’s name and its registered trademark “Rockwell Automation®” and other trademarks such as “Allen-Bradley®” and “A-B®” are important to both of our business segments. In addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as “ICS TriplexTM” for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and “Rockwell Software®” and “FactoryTalk®” for our software products.  

Seasonality  

Our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. However, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules.  

Available Information  

We maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All reports we file with the SEC are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Our Guidelines on Corporate Governance and charters for our Board Committees are also available at our website. The information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

6   
Item 1A. Risk Factors