ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

The risk factors that follow relate in each case to SCANA and its subsidiaries, and where indicated the risk factors also relate to SCE&G and its consolidated affiliates. 

Commodity price changes, delays and other factors may affect the operating cost, capital expenditures and competitive positions of the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s energy businesses, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Our energy businesses are sensitive to changes in coal, natural gas, oil and other commodity prices (as well as their transportation costs) and availability. Any such changes could affect the prices these businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services. Consolidated SCE&G is permitted to recover the prudently incurred cost of fuel (including transportation) used in electric generation through retail customers’ bills, but fuel cost increases affect electric prices and therefore the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. In addition, when natural gas prices are low enough relative to coal to require the dispatch of gas-fired electric generation ahead of coal-fired electric generation, higher inventories of coal, with related increased carrying costs, may result. This may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 

15 

Table of Contents 

In the case of regulated natural gas operations, costs prudently incurred for purchased gas and pipeline capacity may be recovered through retail customers’ bills. However, increases in gas costs affect total retail prices and therefore the competitive position of gas relative to electricity and other forms of energy. Gas cost increases also may result in lower usage by customers unable to switch to alternate fuels. Increases in fuel costs may also result in higher prices for and thus lower usage of electricity by customers. 

Certain construction-related commodities, such as copper and aluminum used in our transmission and distribution lines and in our electrical equipment, and steel, concrete and rare earth elements, have experienced significant price fluctuations due to changes in worldwide demand. To operate our air emissions control equipment, we use significant quantities of ammonia, limestone and lime. With EPA-mandated industry-wide compliance requirements for air emissions controls, demand for these reagents, combined with the demand for low sulfur coal, may result in higher costs for coal and reagents used for compliance purposes. 

The costs of large capital projects, such as the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s construction for environmental compliance and its construction of the New Units and associated transmission, are significant and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect the cost, timing and completion of the projects. 

The Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments in energy generation and in other internal infrastructure projects, including projects for environmental compliance. For example, SCE&G and Santee Cooper have agreed to jointly own, design, construct and operate the New Units, which will be two 1,117-megawatt nuclear units at SCE&G’s Summer Station, in pursuit of which they have committed and are continuing to commit significant resources towards project development, permitting, site preparation and long lead-time procurement. Substantial additional resources will be required for the construction and operation of the New Units upon receipt of requisite approvals. In addition, planning and construction of significant new transmission resources are necessary to support the New Units and are under way as an integral part of the project. Achieving the intended benefits of any large construction project is subject to many uncertainties. For instance, the ability to stay within established budgets and timeframes may be affected by many variables, such as the regulatory and legal processes associated with securing permits and licenses within projected timeframes, the availability of labor and materials at estimated costs, the availability and cost of financing, and weather. There also may be contractor or supplier performance issues or adverse changes in their creditworthiness, and unforeseen difficulties meeting critical regulatory requirements. There may be unforeseen engineering problems or unanticipated changes in project design or scope. Our ability to complete construction projects (including new baseload generation) as well as our ability to maintain current operations at reasonable cost could be affected by the availability of key components or commodities, increases in the price of or the unavailability of labor, commodities or other materials, increases in lead times for components, new or enhanced environmental requirements, supply chain failures (whether resulting from the foregoing or other factors), and disruptions in the transportation of components, commodities and fuels. Furthermore, joint venture projects, such as the current construction of the New Units, are subject to the risk that one or more of the joint venture partners becomes either unable or unwilling to continue to fund project financial commitments, new partners cannot be secured at equivalent financial terms, or changes in the joint venture make-up will increase project costs and/or delay the completion. To the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable effectively to manage our capital projects our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. 

The use of derivative instruments could result in financial losses and liquidity constraints. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G do not fully hedge against financial market risks or price changes in commodities. This could result in increased costs, thereby resulting in lower margins and adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage our commodity and financial market risks. We could recognize financial losses on these contracts as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities and interest rate contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. 

The Company strives to manage commodity price exposure by establishing risk limits and entering into contracts to offset some of our positions (i.e., to hedge our exposure to demand, market effects of weather and other changes in commodity prices). We do not hedge the entire exposure of our operations from commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility or our hedges are not effective, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be diminished. 

16 

Table of Contents 

Furthermore, recent federal legislation (Dodd-Frank) affects the use and reporting of derivative instruments. The regulations under this new legislation are still being finalized and their impact on the use of derivative instruments by the Company and Consolidated SCE&G cannot be determined at this time. 

Changing and complex laws and regulations to which the Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject could adversely affect revenues, increase costs, or curtail activities, thereby adversely impacting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G operate under the regulatory authority of the United States government and its various regulatory agencies, including the FERC, NRC, SEC, IRS, EPA and PHMSA. In addition, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to regulation by agencies of the state governments of South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia, including regulatory agencies, state environmental commissions, and state employment commissions. Accordingly, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G must comply with extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. Such governmental oversight and regulation broadly and materially affect the operation of our business. In addition to many other aspects of our business, these requirements impact the licensing, siting, construction and operation of facilities. They affect our management of safety, the reliability of our transmission system, the physical and cyber security of key assets, customer conservation through demand-side management programs, information security, the issuance of securities and borrowing of money, financial reporting, interaction among affiliates, the payment of dividends and employment programs and practices. Changes to governmental regulations are continual, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on the Company’s or Consolidated SCE&G’s businesses. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to extensive rate regulation which could adversely affect operations. In particular, SCE&G’s electric operations in South Carolina and the Company’s gas distribution operations in South Carolina and North Carolina are regulated by state utilities commissions. The Company’s interstate gas pipeline, SCE&G’s electric transmission system and Consolidated SCE&G’s generating facilities are subject to extensive regulation and oversight from the FERC, NRC and SCPSC. Our gas marketing operations in Georgia are subject to state regulatory oversight and, for a portion of its operations, to rate regulation. There can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as market conditions evolve. Although we believe that we have constructive relationships with the regulators, our ability to obtain rate treatment that will allow us to maintain reasonable rates of return is dependent upon regulatory determinations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement rate adjustments when sought. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures, can increase our costs of operations and which may impact our business plans or expose us to environmental liabilities. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, including those relating to water quality and air emissions (such as reducing nitrogen oxide, sulfur dioxide, mercury and particulate matter). Some form of regulation may be forthcoming at the federal, and possibly state, levels to impose regulatory requirements specifically directed at reducing GHG emissions from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. A number of bills have been introduced in Congress that seek to require GHG emissions reductions from fossil fuel-fired electric generation facilities, natural gas facilities and other sectors of the economy, although none have yet been enacted. On February 16, 2012, the EPA issued the finalized MATS for power plants that requires reduced emissions from new and existing coal and oil-fired electric utility steam generating facilities. The EPA has proposed requirements for cooling water intake structures to meet BACT, andthe EPA presently is drafting a final rule regarding the handling of coal ash and other combustion by-products produced by power plant operations. Furthermore, the EPA has announced that it expects to overhaul the Clean Water Act rules governing effluent limitation standards for coal-fired power plants. 

Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations requires us to commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring, installation of pollution control equipment, emissions fees and permitting at our facilities. These expenditures have been significant in the past and are expected to continue or even increase in the future. Changes in compliance requirements or more restrictive interpretations by governmental authorities of existing requirements may impose additional costs on us (such as the clean-up of MGP sites or additional emission allowances) or require us to incur additional capital expenditures or curtail some of our cost savings activities (such as the recycling of fly ash and other coal combustion products for beneficial use). Compliance with any GHG emission reduction requirements, including any mandated renewable portfolio standards, also may impose significant costs on us, and the resulting price increases to our customers may lower customer consumption. Such costs of compliance with environmental regulations could negatively impact our industry, our business and our results of operations and financial position, especially if emissions or discharge limits are reduced or more onerous permitting requirements or additional regulatory requirements are imposed. 

17 

Table of Contents 

Renewable and/or alternative electric generation portfolio standards may be enacted at the federal or state level. Some states already have them, though currently South Carolina does not. Such standards could direct us to build or otherwise acquire generating capacity derived from renewable/alternative energy sources (generally, renewable energy such as biomass, solar, wind and tidal, and excluding fossil fuels, nuclear or hydro facilities). Such renewable/alternative energy may not be readily available in our service territories, if at all, and could be extremely costly to build, acquire, and operate. Resulting increases in the price of electricity to recover the cost of these types of generation, if approved by regulatory commissions, could result in lower usage of electricity by our customers. Although we cannot predict whether such standards will be adopted at the federal level or in South Carolina or their specifics if adopted, compliance with such potential portfolio standards could significantly impact our industry, our capital expenditures, and our results of operations and financial position. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are vulnerable to interest rate increases which would increase our borrowing costs, and may not have access to capital at favorable rates, if at all. Additionally, potential disruptions in the capital and credit markets may further adversely affect the availability and cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements and our ability to meet long-term commitments; each could in turn adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G rely on the capital markets, particularly for publicly offered debt and equity, as well as the banking and commercial paper markets, to meet our financial commitments and short-term liquidity needs if internal funds are not available from operations. Changes in interest rates affect the cost of borrowing. The Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s business plans, which include significant investments in energy generation and other internal infrastructure projects, reflect the expectation that we will have access to the capital markets on satisfactory terms to fund commitments. Moreover, the ability to maintain short-term liquidity by utilizing commercial paper programs is dependent upon maintaining satisfactory short-term debt ratings and the existence of a market for our commercial paper generally. 

The Company’s and SCE&G’s ability to draw on our respective bank revolving credit facilities is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facilities to meet their funding commitments and on our ability to timely renew such facilities. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to the Company or Consolidated SCE&G if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from us and other borrowers within a short period of time. Longer-term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require the Company and Consolidated SCE&G to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures or other discretionary uses of cash. Disruptions in capital and credit markets also could result in higher interest rates on debt securities, limited or no access to the commercial paper market, increased costs associated with commercial paper borrowing or limitations on the maturities of commercial paper that can be sold (if at all), increased costs under bank credit facilities and reduced availability thereof, and increased costs for certain variable interest rate debt securities of the Company and Consolidated SCE&G. 

Disruptions in the capital markets and its actual or perceived effects on particular businesses and the greater economy also adversely affect the value of the investments held within SCANA’s pension trust. A significant long-term decline in the value of these investments may require us to make or increase contributions to the trust to meet future funding requirements. In addition, a significant decline in the market value of the investments may adversely impact the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s results of operations, cash flows and financial position, including its shareholders’ equity. 

A downgrade in the credit rating of SCANA or any of SCANA’s subsidiaries, including SCE&G, could negatively affect our ability to access capital and to operate our businesses, thereby adversely affecting results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Various rating agencies rate SCANA’s long-term senior unsecured debt, SCE&G’s long-term senior secured debt and the long-term senior unsecured debt of PSNC Energy as investment grade. In addition, ratings agencies maintain ratings on the short-term debt of SCANA, SCE&G, Fuel Company (which ratings are based upon the guarantee of SCE&G) and PSNC Energy. If these rating agencies were to lower the outlook or downgrade any of these ratings, particularly to below investment grade, borrowing cost on new issuances would increase, which would diminish financial results, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources could decrease. 

18 

Table of Contents 

One rating agency, by action taken in 2011, downgraded both the short-term and senior unsecured long-term debt of SCANA. These downgrades have increased SCANA’s short-term borrowing rate and decreased the average maturity of its short-term debt, and may have the effect of increasing SCANA’s long-term borrowing rate. Although access to the short-term market has not been adversely impacted, this could change under different market conditions. 

SCANA’s leverage ratio of long- and short-term debt to capital was approximately 58% at December 31, 2011. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to maintain its leverage ratio at levels between 54% and 57%, but SCANA’s ability to achieve and maintain those levels depends on a number of factors. In the future, if SCANA is not able to achieve and maintain its leverage ratio within the desired range, the Company’s debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to the capital markets may be limited. 

Operating results may be adversely affected by natural disasters, man-made mishaps and abnormal weather. 

The Company has delivered less gas and received lower prices for natural gas in deregulated markets, and consequently earned less income when weather conditions have been milder than normal. During 2010, the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s implementation of an eWNA on a pilot basis. Mild weather in the future could diminish the revenues and results of operations and harm the financial condition of the Company and SCE&G if the eWNA is not extended on a permanent basis. In addition, for the Company and Consolidated SCE&G, severe weather can be destructive, causing outages and property damage, adversely affecting operating expenses and revenues. 

Natural disasters (such as the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan) or man-made mishaps (such as the San Bruno, California natural gas transmission pipeline failure or the Kingston, Tennessee coal ash pond failure) could have direct significant impacts on the Company and Consolidated SCE&G and on our key contractors and suppliers or could indirectly impact us through changes to federal, state or local policies, laws and regulations, and have a significant impact on our financial position, operating expenses, and cash flows. 

Potential competitive changes may adversely affect our gas and electricity businesses due to the loss of customers, reductions in revenues, or write-down of stranded assets. 

The utility industry has been undergoing structural change for a number of years, resulting in increasing competitive pressures on electric and natural gas utility companies. Competition in wholesale power sales has been introduced on a national level. Some states have also mandated or encouraged competition at the retail level. Increased competition may create greater risks to the stability of utility earnings generally and may in the future reduce earnings from retail electric and natural gas sales. In a deregulated environment, formerly regulated utility companies that are not responsive to a competitive energy marketplace may suffer erosion in market share, revenues and profits as competitors gain access to their customers. In addition, the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risk in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, a write-down in the value of the related assets would be required. 

The Company and SCE&G are subject to risks associated with changes in business and economic climate which could adversely affect revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and could limit access to capital. 

Sales, sales growth and customer usage patterns are dependent upon the economic climate in the service territories of the Company and SCE&G, which may be affected by regional, national or even international economic factors. Some economic sectors important to our customer base may be particularly affected. Adverse events, economic or otherwise, may also affect the operations of key customers. Such events may result in the loss of customers, changes in customer usage patterns and in the failure of customers to make timely payments to us. The success of local and state governments in attracting new industry to our service territories is important to our sales and growth in sales, as are stable levels of taxation (including property, income or other taxes) which may be affected by local, state, or federal budget deficits, adverse economic climates generally or legislative or regulatory actions. Budget cutbacks also adversely affect funding levels of federal and state support agencies and non-profit organizations that assist low income customers with bill payments. 

In addition, conservation efforts and/or technological advances may cause or enable customers to significantly reduce their usage of the Company’s and SCE&G’s products and adversely affect sales, sales growth, and customer usage patterns. 

19 

Table of Contents 

Factors that generally could affect our ability to access capital include economic conditions and our capital structure. Much of our business is capital intensive, and achievement of our capital plan and long-term growth targets is dependent, at least in part, upon our ability to access capital at rates and on terms we determine to be attractive. If our ability to access capital becomes significantly constrained, our interest costs will likely increase and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly harmed. 

Problems with operations could cause us to curtail or limit our ability to serve customers or cause us to incur substantial costs, thereby adversely impacting revenues, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

Critical processes or systems in the Company’s or Consolidated SCE&G’s operations could become impaired or fail from a variety of causes, such as equipment breakdown, transmission line failure, information systems failure or security breach, the effects of drought (including reduced water levels) on the operation of emission control or other generation equipment, and the effects of a pandemic or terrorist attack on our workforce or facilities or on the ability of vendors and suppliers to maintain services key to our operations. 

In particular, as the operator of power generation facilities, many of which entered service prior to 1985 and may be difficult to maintain, Consolidated SCE&G could incur problems such as the breakdown or failure of power generation or emission control equipment, transmission lines, other equipment or processes which would result in performance below assumed levels of output or efficiency. In addition, any such breakdown or failure may result in Consolidated SCE&G purchasing emission allowances or replacement power at market rates, if such allowances and replacement power are available at all. If replacement power is not available, such problems could result in interruptions of service (blackout or brownout conditions) in all or part of SCE&G’s territory or elsewhere in the region. These purchases are subject to state regulatory prudency reviews for recovery through rates. Similarly, a gas transmission or distribution line failure of the Company or Consolidated SCE&G could affect the safety of the public, destroy property, and interrupt our ability to serve customers. Events such as these could entail substantial repair costs, litigation, fines and penalties, and damage to reputation, each of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. 

SCANA’s ability to pay dividends and to make payments on SCANA’s debt securities may be limited by covenants in certain financial instruments and by the financial results and condition of its subsidiaries, thereby adversely impacting the valuation of our common stock and our access to capital . 

We are a holding company that conducts substantially all of our operations through our subsidiaries. Our assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Therefore, our ability to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on outstanding debt and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate expenses depends on the earnings, cash flows, financial condition and capital requirements of our subsidiaries, and the ability of our subsidiaries, principally Consolidated SCE&G, PSNC Energy and SEMI to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to us. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may also be limited by existing or future covenants limiting the right of our subsidiaries to pay dividends on their common stock. Any significant reduction in our payment of dividends in the future may result in a decline in the value of our common stock. Such a decline in value could limit our ability to raise debt and equity capital. 

A significant portion of Consolidated SCE&G’s generating capacity is derived from nuclear power, the use of which exposes us to regulatory, environmental and business risks. These risks could increase our costs or otherwise constrain our business, thereby adversely impacting our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. These risks will increase as the New Units are developed. 

In 2011, Summer Station Unit 1, operated by SCE&G, provided approximately 5 million MWh, or 19% of our generation capacity. If the New Units are completed, our generating capacity and the percentage of total generating capacity represented by nuclear sources is expected to increase. Hence, SCE&G is subject to various risks of nuclear generation, which include the following: 

· The potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from a release of radioactive materials in connection with the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; 

· Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with our nuclear operations or those of others in the United States; 

· Uncertainties with respect to procurement of nuclear fuel and the storage of spent nuclear fuel; 

20 

Table of Contents 

· Uncertainties with respect to contingencies if insurance coverage is inadequate; and 

· Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their operating lives. 

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate capital expenditures at nuclear plants such as ours. In addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident, if a major incident should occur at a domestic nuclear facility, it could harm our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit. Finally, in today’s environment, there is a heightened risk of terrorist attack on the nation’s nuclear facilities, which has resulted in increased security costs at our nuclear plant. 

Failure to retain and attract key personnel could adversely affect the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s operations and financial performance. 

Implementation of our strategic plan and growth strategy requires that we attract, retain and develop executive officers and other professional, technical and craft employees with the skills and experience necessary to successfully manage, operate and grow our business. Competition for these employees is high, and in some cases we must compete for these employees on a regional or national basis. We may be unable to attract and retain these personnel. Further, the Company’s or Consolidated SCE&G’s ability to construct or maintain generation or other assets requires the availability of suitable skilled contractor personnel. We may be unable to obtain appropriate contractor personnel at the times and places needed. Labor disputes with employees or contractors covered by collective bargaining agreements also could adversely affect implementation of our strategic plan and our operational and financial performance. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to the risk that strategic decisions made by us either do not result in a return of or on invested capital or might negatively impact our competitive position, which can adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows, financial position, and access to capital. 

From time to time, the Company and Consolidated SCE&G make strategic decisions that may impact our direction with regard to business opportunities, the services and technologies offered to customers or that are used to serve customers, and the generating plant and other infrastructure that form the basis of much of our business. These strategic decisions may not result in a return of or on our invested capital, and the effects of these strategic decisions may have long-term implications that are not likely to be known to us in the short-term. Changing political climates and public attitudes may adversely affect the ongoing acceptability of strategic decisions that have been made (and, in some cases, previously approved by regulators), to the detriment of the Company or Consolidated SCE&G. Over time, these strategic decisions or changing attitudes toward such decisions, which could be adverse to the Company’s or Consolidated SCE&G’s interests, may have a negative effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position, as well as limit our ability to access capital. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are subject to the reputational risks that may result from a failure to adhere to high standards of compliance with laws and regulations, ethical conduct, operational effectiveness, and safety of employees, customers and the public. These risks could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s access to capital. 

The Company and Consolidated SCE&G are committed to comply with all laws and regulations, to focus on the safety of employees, customers and the public, to maintain the privacy of information related to our customers and employees and to maintain effective communications with the public and key stakeholder groups, particularly during emergencies and times of crisis. The Company and Consolidated SCE&G also are committed to operational excellence and, through our Code of Conduct and Ethics, to maintain high standards of ethical conduct in our business operations. A failure to meet these commitments may subject the Company and Consolidated SCE&G not only to fraud, litigation and financial loss, but also to reputational risk that could adversely affect the valuation of SCANA’s stock, adversely affect the Company’s and Consolidated SCE&G’s access to capital, and result in further regulatory oversight. 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

Not Applicable 

21 

Table of Contents 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES