Part I  

Item 1. Business  

Overview  

We are a leading global exchange group that delivers trading, clearing, exchange technology, regulatory, securities listing, and public company services across six continents. Our global offerings are diverse and include trading and clearing across multiple asset classes, market data products, financial indexes, capital formation solutions, financial services and market technology products and services. Our technology powers markets across the globe, supporting cash equity trading, derivatives trading, clearing and settlement, and many other functions.  

In the U.S., we operate The NASDAQ Stock Market, a registered national securities exchange. The NASDAQ Stock Market is the largest single cash equities securities market in the U.S. in terms of listed companies and in the world in terms of share value traded. As of December 31, 2012, The NASDAQ Stock Market was home to 2,577 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $5.2 trillion. In addition, in the U.S. we operate two additional cash equities trading markets, three options markets and a futures market. We also engage in riskless principal trading and clearing of over-the-counter, or OTC, power and gas contracts.  

In Europe, we operate exchanges in Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Helsinki (Finland), and Iceland as NASDAQ OMX Nordic, and exchanges in Tallinn (Estonia), Riga (Latvia) and Vilnius (Lithuania) as NASDAQ OMX Baltic. Collectively, the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic offer trading in cash equities, bonds, structured products and ETFs, as well as trading and clearing of derivatives and clearing of resale and repurchase agreements. Through NASDAQ OMX First North, our Nordic and Baltic operations also offer alternative marketplaces for smaller companies. As of December 31, 2012, the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, together with NASDAQ OMX First North, were home to 754 listed companies with a combined market capitalization of approximately $1.0 trillion. We also operate NASDAQ OMX Armenia.  

In addition, NASDAQ OMX Commodities operates the world’s largest power derivatives exchange, one of Europe’s largest carbon exchanges and together with Nord Pool Spot, N2EX, a marketplace for physical U.K. power contracts. We also operate NOS Clearing, a leading Norway-based clearinghouse primarily for OTC traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market.  

In some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services.  

History and Structure  

Nasdaq was founded in 1971 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of FINRA (then known as the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.). Beginning in 2000, FINRA restructured and broadened ownership in Nasdaq by selling shares to FINRA members, investment companies and issuers listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market.  

In connection with this restructuring, Nasdaq applied to the SEC to register The NASDAQ Stock Market as a national securities exchange. FINRA fully divested its ownership of Nasdaq in 2006, and The NASDAQ Stock Market became fully operational as an independent registered national securities exchange in 2007. In 2006, Nasdaq also reorganized its operations into a holding company structure. As a result, our exchange licenses and exchange and broker-dealer operations are held by our subsidiaries.  

On February 27, 2008, Nasdaq and OMX AB combined their businesses pursuant to an agreement with Borse Dubai Limited, a Dubai company, or Borse Dubai, and Nasdaq was renamed The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. This transformational combination resulted in the expansion of our business from a U.S.-based exchange operator to a global exchange company offering technology that powers our own exchanges and markets as well as more than 70 other exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. Our Genium INET and X-stream INET technology platforms, based on proven INET technology, provide technology to customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets.  

Also in 2008, we expanded our U.S. Market Services business through the acquisitions of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., or PHLX, and the Boston Stock Exchange, Incorporated, or BSX. These acquisitions allowed us to extend our presence in the derivatives markets and we currently operate three separate options markets. In addition, we have used the licenses acquired in these acquisitions to launch two additional U.S. cash equities markets. In 2010, we also grew our Market Services offerings with the acquisition of FTEN, Inc., or FTEN, a leading provider of Real-Time Risk Management, or RTRM, solutions for the financial securities market.  

2  

Table of Contents 

We also have expanded into the business of trading and clearing commodities products in recent years. In 2008, we acquired the clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries of Nord Pool ASA, or Nord Pool. As a result of this acquisition, we launched NASDAQ OMX Commodities, which offers energy and carbon derivatives products. In 2010, we acquired a derivatives trading market through the purchase of the remaining businesses of Nord Pool. Also in 2010, through our subsidiary NASDAQ OMX Commodities Clearing Company, or NOCC, we purchased the assets of North American Energy Credit and Clearing Corp., expanding our presence in the OTC energy commodity markets. Together with Nord Pool Spot, NASDAQ OMX Commodities launched N2EX, a marketplace for physical U.K. power contracts. In July 2012, we acquired NOS Clearing, a leading Norway-based clearinghouse primarily for OTC traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market.  

In August 2010, we acquired SMARTS Group Holdings Pty Ltd, or SMARTS, a leading technology provider of surveillance solutions to exchanges, regulators and brokers. This acquisition allowed our Market Technology business to enter the surveillance and compliance market.  

In recent years, we have expanded our Corporate Solutions business, which provides customer support services, products and programs to companies including companies listed on our exchanges, through organic growth and numerous acquisitions. In May 2012, we acquired a 72% ownership interest in BWise Beheer B.V. and its subsidiaries, or BWise, a Netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. We have agreed to purchase the remaining 28% ownership interest in BWise in two separate transactions, resulting in 100% ownership by the first half of 2015. Most recently, in December 2012, we entered into an agreement with Thomson Reuters to acquire its Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions businesses. Upon closing, these complementary businesses will be integrated into our Corporate Solutions business. The proposed transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2013.  

Competitive Strengths  

Premier global exchange company. We are a premier global exchange company that operates the largest cash equities market in terms of share value traded in the world. For the year ended December 31, 2012, our exchanges had an average daily trading volume of 6.6 million trades in cash equities, representing a value of approximately $12.4 trillion. In addition, across our markets, we had 3,331 listings representing over 40 countries as of December 31, 2012, including many of the world’s largest companies. Our wholly-owned subsidiary The NASDAQ Stock Market continues to be the single largest liquidity pool for trading cash equities in the U.S.  

Leader in global exchange technology. We believe we are the leader in global exchange technology. As the world’s first electronic stock market, we pioneered electronic trading and have continued to innovate over the last 40 years. Our INET platform processes trades at sub-55 microsecond average transaction speeds with close to 100% system reliability. In addition, our platforms are highly scalable with current capacity at ten times the average daily volume allowing significantly higher transaction volume to be handled at low incremental cost. Furthermore, we were the first exchange to offer electronic trading and integrated derivatives trading and clearing to other exchanges and today have a global technology customer base of more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 countries worldwide, including China (Hong Kong), Japan, Singapore, Australia and the U.S. Our Genium INET offering, based on proven INET technology, provides technology customers with the speed, scale and reliability required to meet the specific needs of their markets. We believe that we will continue to provide leading technology for the world’s competitive and demanding capital markets, which increasingly require that exchanges be able to constantly secure the best price for investors and issuers, a natural strength of our technology and electronic trading platforms.  

Diversified operations and products. We have a diversified business, both in terms of geography and product offerings. In addition, our recent acquisitions, investments and strategic initiatives have significantly diversified our product offerings, particularly in the derivatives trading and clearing, commodities, corporate solutions and surveillance technology businesses. Our business has continued to increase subscription-based and recurring revenue.  

Proven and disciplined management team. We have a proven and disciplined management team led by Robert Greifeld, our Chief Executive Officer, that has substantial financial services industry experience and expertise in making and integrating strategic acquisitions. We believe the NASDAQ OMX management team has demonstrated an ability to innovate and respond effectively to market opportunities.  

Commitment to regulatory integrity. As a global exchange company, we are subject to regulation in many jurisdictions worldwide. NASDAQ OMX is always committed to working with regulators, exchanges and market participants to ensure transparent trading and a fair and orderly market for the benefit of investors. In some instances, NASDAQ OMX has entered into agreements with independent third parties to provide regulatory oversight that is separate from our markets. In addition to operating real-time market surveillance programs relating to trading and compliance-monitoring, NASDAQ also maintains enforcement programs with respect to listings on our markets. We are committed to strong and effective regulation and believe that regulatory integrity benefits investors, strengthens the NASDAQ OMX brand and attracts companies seeking to do business with us or to list securities on our markets.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Products and Services  

Prior to January 1, 2013, we operated in three segments: Market Services, Issuer Services and Market Technology. Of our 2012 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,663 million, 66.4% was from our Market Services segment, 22.5% was from our Issuer Services segment and 11.1% was from our Market Technology segment. Of our 2011 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,682 million, 67.6% was from our Market Services segment, 21.5% was from our Issuer Services segment and 10.9% was from our Market Technology segment. Of our 2010 revenues less transaction rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees of $1,516 million, 67.6% was from our Market Services segment, 22.3% was from our Issuer Services segment, 10.0% was from our Market Technology segment and 0.1% related to other revenues.  

See Note 19, “Business Segments,” to the consolidated financial statements for additional financial information about our segments and geographic data.  

As announced in January 2013, we realigned our reportable segments as a result of changes to the organizational structure of our businesses. See Note 20, “Subsequent Event,” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.  

Market Services  

Our Market Services segment includes our U.S. and European Transaction Services businesses, which include Access Services, as well as our Market Data and Broker Services businesses. We offer trading on multiple exchanges and facilities across several asset classes, including cash equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. In addition, in some of the countries where we operate exchanges, we also provide clearing, settlement and depository services.  

U.S. Transaction Services  

In the U.S., we offer trading in cash equity securities, derivatives and ETFs on our cash equities, options and futures markets and engage in riskless principal trading of OTC power and gas contracts through NASDAQ OMX Commodities Clearing, or NOCC. Our transaction-based platforms in the U.S. provide market participants with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes for cash equity securities, derivatives and ETFs. The platforms allow the routing and execution of buy and sell orders as well as the reporting of transactions for cash equity securities, derivatives and ETFs, providing fee-based revenues.  

Cash Equities Trading. The NASDAQ Stock Market is the largest single pool of liquidity for trading U.S.-listed cash equities, matching an average of approximately 17.0% of all U.S. cash equities volume for 2012.  

We also operate two additional U.S. cash equities markets, called NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX. With these markets, we offer a second and third quote within the U.S. cash equities marketplace, providing our customers enhanced trading choices and price flexibility. All of our cash equities exchanges are run on our INET trading system, providing customers additional fast and efficient cash equity securities markets using familiar technology. In accessing these markets, our customers can leverage existing infrastructure, reducing incremental costs when connecting. In 2012, NASDAQ OMX BX matched an average of approximately 2.7% and NASDAQ OMX PSX matched an average of approximately 1.1% of all U.S. cash equities volume.  

Our fully electronic U.S. transaction-based platforms provide members with the ability to access, process, display and integrate orders and quotes in cash equity securities. Market participants include market makers, broker-dealers, alternative trading systems, or ATSs, and registered securities exchanges. These services are offered for NASDAQ-listed and non-NASDAQ-listed securities. Specifically, our platforms:  

   •    provide a comprehensive display of the interest by market participants at the highest price a participant is willing to buy a security (best bid) and also the lowest price a participant is willing to sell that security (best offer);  

   •    provide subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level for exchange-listed securities and critical data for the Opening Cross, Closing Cross, Halt Cross and IPO Cross; and  

   •    provide anonymity to market participants (i.e., participants do not know the identity of the firm displaying the order unless that firm chooses to reveal its identity), which can contribute to improved pricing for securities by reducing the potential market impact that transactions by investors whose trading activity, if known, may influence others.  

Trade Reporting. All U.S. registered national securities exchanges and securities associations are required to establish a transaction reporting plan for the central collection of price and volume information concerning trades executed in those markets. Trades executed on our cash equities exchanges are automatically reported under the appropriate transaction reporting plan. Currently, market participants are not charged for the reporting of most of these trades. Our cash equities exchanges, however, earn revenues for all of these trades in the form of shared market information revenues under the Unlisted Trading Privileges Plan, or the UTP Plan, for NASDAQ-listed securities and under the Consolidated Tape and Consolidated Quotation Plans for securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, NYSE MKT and other exchanges.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Through The FINRA/NASDAQ Trade Reporting Facility, or FINRA/NASDAQ TRF, we collect reports of trades executed by broker-dealers outside of our exchanges. The FINRA/NASDAQ TRF collects trade reports as a facility of FINRA. A large percentage of these trades results from orders that broker-dealers have matched internally and is submitted to the FINRA/NASDAQ TRF for reporting purposes only. The FINRA/NASDAQ TRF charges market participants for locked-in reporting of most trades, but it shares back most revenues earned from shared market information with respect to the trades. The FINRA/NASDAQ TRF also generates revenues by providing trade comparison to broker dealers by matching and locking-in the two parties to a trade that they have submitted to the FINRA/NASDAQ TRF for reporting and clearing.  

In addition to trade reporting and trade comparison services, we provide clearing firms with risk management services to assist them in monitoring their exposure to their correspondent brokers.  

U.S. Derivative Trading and Clearing. In the U.S., we operate The NASDAQ Options Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NASDAQ OMX BX Options for the trading of equity options, ETF options, index options and foreign currency options. As of December 31, 2012, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, which operates a hybrid electronic and floor-based market, was the largest equity options market in the U.S. During the year ended December 31, 2012, our options markets had an average combined market share of approximately 27.2% in the U.S. equity options market, consisting of approximately 21.3% at NASDAQ OMX PHLX, 5.5% at The NASDAQ Options Market and 0.4% at NASDAQ OMX BX Options. Together, the combined market share of 27.2% represented the largest share of the U.S. equity options market and ETF options market. Our options trading platforms provide trading opportunities to both retail investors, algorithmic trading firms and market makers, who tend to prefer electronic trading, and institutional investors, who typically pursue more complex trading strategies and often trade on the floor.  

In the U.S., we also operate NFX, a designated contract market regulated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC. NFX offers trading of futures contracts on spot gold, which clear at The Options Clearing Corporation, or OCC.  

NASDAQ OMX also engages in riskless principal trading and clearing of OTC power and gas contracts through our subsidiary NOCC.  

European Transaction Services  

Nordics. NASDAQ OMX Nordic’s operations comprise the exchanges in Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Helsinki (Finland), and Iceland. Collectively, the exchanges offer trading for cash equities and bonds, trading and clearing services for derivatives, and clearing services for resale and repurchase agreements. Our platform allows the exchanges to share the same trading system, which enables efficient cross-border trading and settlement, cross membership and a single source for Nordic market data.  

Trading is offered in Nordic securities such as cash equities and depository receipts, warrants, convertibles, rights, fund units, ETFs, bonds and other interest-related products. NASDAQ OMX Stockholm also offers trading in derivatives, such as stock options and futures, index options and futures, fixed-income options and futures and stock loans. Settlement and registration of cash trading takes place in Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Iceland via the local central securities depositories.  

NASDAQ OMX’s trading offerings also include cash equities listed in Norway and Norwegian derivatives products. The offering is designed to provide lower trading costs and other benefits for customers seeking to trade all Nordic cash equity products on one platform.  

Most of our cash equity trades on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic are centrally cleared by the European Multilateral Clearing Facility N.V., or EMCF, a leading European clearinghouse in which we own a 22% equity stake.  

NASDAQ OMX Stockholm offers clearing services for fixed-income options and futures, stock options and futures and index options and futures by serving as the central counterparty, or CCP. NASDAQ OMX Stockholm also operates a clearing service for the resale and repurchase agreement market. As a result of an agreement between the Swedish Money Market Council and NASDAQ OMX, a large portion of the Swedish Interbank resale and repurchase agreement market is cleared through NASDAQ OMX Stockholm.  

Baltics. NASDAQ OMX Baltic operations comprise the exchanges in Tallinn (Estonia), Riga (Latvia) and Vilnius (Lithuania). As of December 31, 2012, NASDAQ OMX owns NASDAQ OMX Tallinn and has a majority ownership in NASDAQ OMX Vilnius and NASDAQ OMX Riga. In addition, NASDAQ OMX Tallinn owns the central securities depository in Estonia, NASDAQ OMX Riga owns the central securities depository in Latvia, and NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and NASDAQ OMX Vilnius jointly own the central securities depository in Lithuania.  

5  

Table of Contents 

The exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Baltic offer their members trading, clearing, payment and custody services. Issuers, primarily large local companies, are offered listing and a distribution network for their securities. The securities traded are mainly cash equities, bonds and treasury bills. Clearing, payment and custody services are offered through the central securities depositories in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. In addition, in Estonia and Latvia, NASDAQ OMX offers registry maintenance of fund units included in obligatory pension funds, and in Estonia, NASDAQ OMX offers the maintenance of shareholder registers for listed companies. The Baltic central securities depositories offer a complete range of cross-border settlement services.  

TOM. In December 2012, we announced an agreement to acquire a 25% stake in The Order Machine, or TOM, a Dutch cash equities and equity derivatives trading venue. The terms of the transaction also provide us an option to acquire an additional 25.1% of the remaining shares at a future date. This transaction delivers on our strategy to expand our derivatives presence across the European market. The acquisition is subject to regulatory approval.  

Commodities Trading and Clearing. NASDAQ OMX Commodities offers trading and clearing of international power derivatives, carbon and other commodities products. NASDAQ OMX Commodities’ offering includes the world’s largest power derivatives exchange and one of Europe’s largest carbon exchanges.  

NASDAQ OMX Commodities has over 400 members across a wide range of energy producers and consumers, as well as financial institutions. NASDAQ OMX Commodities’ offering is designed for banks, brokers, hedge funds and other financial institutions, as well as power utilities, industrial, manufacturing and oil companies. NASDAQ OMX Commodities offers clearing services for energy derivative and carbon product contracts by serving as the CCP.  

In addition, NASDAQ OMX Commodities, together with Nord Pool Spot, operates N2EX, a marketplace for physical U.K. power contracts.  

In July 2012, we acquired NOS Clearing, a leading Norway-based clearinghouse primarily for OTC traded derivatives for the freight market and seafood derivatives market.  

U.K. In June 2012, we announced the intention to launch a new London-based trading venue, NLX, offering a range of both short-term interest rate (STIRs) and long-term interest rate (LTIRs) euro—and sterling-based listed derivative products. NLX aims to enhance the competitive landscape by providing highly competitive execution and clearing fees and significant margin efficiencies. The platform is expected to launch in the second quarter of 2013, pending Financial Services Authority approval.  

Access Services  

We provide market participants with several alternatives for accessing our markets for a fee. Shifting connectivity from proprietary networks to third-party networks has significantly reduced technology and network costs and increased our systems’ scalability without affecting performance or reliability.  

Our U.S. marketplaces may be accessed via a number of different protocols. The Financial Information Exchange product that uses the FIX protocol, a standard method of financial communication between trading firms and vendors, enables firms to leverage their existing FIX technology with cost-effective connections to our markets. Market participants may also access our systems using QIX, a proprietary programming interface that provides a more streamlined and efficient protocol for our users with expanded functionality, including quotation updates, and computer-to-computer interface, or CTCI, a protocol that allows market participants to enter transactions directly from their computer systems to our computer systems. Firms also may use former INET protocols, such as OUCH and RASH, to access our single trading platform. We also earn revenues from connectivity to various market data feeds. As an alternative to a firm-developed trading front-end, our system offers the NASDAQ Workstation, an internet-browser based interface that allows market participants to view market data and enter orders, quotes and trade reports. Finally, we offer a variety of add-on compliance tools to help firms comply with regulatory requirements.  

We provide co-location services to market participants whereby firms may lease space for equipment within our data center. These participants are charged monthly fees for cabinet space, connectivity and support. We also earn revenues from annual and monthly exchange membership and registration fees.  

Access Services revenues also include revenues from FTEN, a leading provider of RTRM solutions for the financial securities market. As a market leader in RTRM, FTEN provides broker-dealers and their clients the ability to manage risk more effectively in real-time, which leads to better utilization of capital as well as improved regulatory compliance.  

In 2012, we announced the launch of FinQloud, a platform for financial services applications that provides efficient management and storage of financial data.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Market Data  

We earn Market Data revenues from U.S. tape plans and U.S. and European proprietary market data products.  

Net U.S. Tape Plans. The NASDAQ Stock Market operates as the exclusive Securities Information Processor of the UTP Plan for the collection and dissemination of best bid and offer information and last transaction information from markets that quote and trade in NASDAQ-listed securities. The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX are participants in the UTP Plan and share in the net distribution of revenue according to the plan on the same terms as the other plan participants. In the role as the Securities Information Processor, The NASDAQ Stock Market collects and disseminates quotation and last sale information for all transactions in NASDAQ-listed securities whether traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market or other exchanges. We sell this information to market participants and to data distributors, who then provide the information to subscribers. After deducting costs associated with our role as an exclusive Securities Information Processor, as permitted under the revenue sharing provision of the UTP Plan, we distribute the tape revenues to the respective UTP Plan participants, including The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX, based on a formula required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, all quotes and trades in NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities are reported and disseminated in real time, and as such, we share in the tape revenues for information on NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities.  

U.S. Market Data Products. Our market data products enhance transparency and provide critical information to professional and non-professional investors. We collect, process and create information and earn revenues as a distributor of our own, as well as select, third-party content. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. Our systems enable distributors to gain direct access to our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data. Revenues from U.S. market data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data.  

We distribute this proprietary market information to both market participants and non-participants through a number of proprietary products. We use our broad distribution network of more than 2,000 market data distributors to deliver data regarding our market depth, index values, mutual fund valuation, order imbalances, market sentiment and other analytical data.  

We offer a range of proprietary data products, including NASDAQ TotalView, our flagship market depth quote product. TotalView shows subscribers quotes, orders and total anonymous interest at every price level in The NASDAQ Stock Market for NASDAQ-listed securities and critical data for the Opening, Closing, Halt and IPO Crosses. We also offer TotalView products for our NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX markets. TotalView is offered through distributors to professional subscribers for a monthly fee per terminal and to non-professional subscribers for a lower monthly fee per terminal. We also offer TotalView enterprise licenses to facilitate broad based distribution of this data. In addition, we charge the distributor a monthly distributor fee.  

We operate several other proprietary services and data products to provide market information, which include:  

   •    NASDAQ Basic, which offers a flexible and affordable way to provide customers with essential trading data of best bid and offer and last sale information;  

   •    NASDAQ Last Sale, which provides broad based and universal access to real-time last sale information via Internet portals;  

   •    NASDAQ Market Replay, a powerful replay and analysis tool that allows users to view order book and trade data for NASDAQ, NYSE- and NYSE MKT-listed securities at any point in time;  

   •    NASDAQ OMX DataStore, which is designed to transform the market data industry through use of plug-and-play technology to deliver new proprietary information content;  

   •    Mutual Fund Quotation Service, a service for over 29,000 mutual funds, money market funds and unit investment trusts that supports fund data, including net asset values, and capital gains and dividend income distribution and provides print and electronic media exposure for the funds;  

   •    Mutual Fund Dissemination Service, which is a service that facilitates the real-time and end-of-day recap dissemination of all mutual fund pricing information and is used by data vendors and media to receive complete net asset value data on funds;  

   •    Global Index Dissemination Service, which is a real-time data feed that carries the values for a number of broad-based and sector indexes and ETFs;  

   •    Top Of PHLX Options, which is a top-price-level data feed directly from the NASDAQ OMX PHLX options market;  

   •    MatchView, a direct data feed that provides a view of the prevailing best bid offer of other exchanges;  

7  

Table of Contents 

   •    Global Index Watch, which provides index weights and components, including advanced notification of corporate actions, as well as real-time, daily and historical index values for NASDAQ OMX indexes;  

   •    NASDAQ Data-On-Demand, a service that gives customers instant access to historical Level 1 information;  

   •    Global Access, a service that uses NASDAQ OMX expertise to perform services for clients, such as client on-site reviews;  

   •    Event Driven Analytics, a machine readable news service delivering key economic indicators directly from the source; and  

   •    NASDAQ OMX Ultrafeed, an efficient aggregated and normalized data feed including all North American equity, options, futures, indexes and fund market data.  

European Market Data Products. The exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, as well as NASDAQ OMX Commodities, offer European market data products and services. These data products and services provide critical market transparency to professional and non-professional investors who participate in European marketplaces and, at the same time, give investors greater insight into these markets.  

European market data products and services are based on the trading information from the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, as well as NASDAQ OMX Commodities, for the following classes of assets: cash equities, bonds, derivatives and commodities. We provide varying levels of quote and trade information to market participants and to data distributors, who in turn provide subscriptions for this information. Revenues from European market data products are subscription-based and are generated primarily based on the number of data subscribers and distributors of our data.  

We provide a wide range of data products including products in real-time, some with a time delay or in batch delivery. These products and services are packaged for market professionals as well as for private individuals, and include real-time information on market depth, specific transactions and share-price trends, the compilation and calculation of reference information such as indexes and the presentation of statistics.  

Significant European market data products include:  

   •    Nordic Equity TotalView, which provides full market insight into the order book, news and analysis data for all Nordic cash equities. The product also includes index values and weights and liquidity measure indicators;  

   •    Nordic Derivative TotalView ITCH, the low latency source for Nordic derivatives, which displays all bid/ask prices in the order book, real time listing details and trading information; and  

   •    Nordic Fixed Income Level 2, which provides listing details, order book information, bid and ask quotes for up to five levels, trade information, derived information, indicative bid and ask quotes, daily turnover statistics and company disclosures.  

Broker Services  

Our Broker Services operations offer technology and customized securities administration solutions to financial participants in the Nordic market. Broker Services provides services through a registered securities company that is regulated by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, or SFSA. Services primarily consist of flexible back-office systems, which allow customers to entirely or partly outsource their company’s back-office functions.  

We offer customer and account registration, business registration, clearing and settlement, corporate action handling for reconciliations and reporting to authorities. Available services also include direct settlement with the Nordic central securities depositories, real-time updating and communication via the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, or SWIFT, to deposit banks. Revenues are based on a fixed basic fee for back-office brokerage services, such as administration or licensing, maintenance and operations, and a variable portion that depends on the number of transactions completed.  

Issuer Services  

Our Issuer Services segment includes our Global Listing Services and Global Index Group businesses. We offer capital raising solutions to over 3,300 companies around the globe representing approximately $6.2 trillion in total market value as of December 31, 2012.  

We operate a variety of listing platforms around the world to provide multiple global capital raising solutions for private and public companies. Our main listing markets are The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic. We offer a consolidated global listing application to companies to enable them to apply for listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic, as well as NASDAQ Dubai. In addition, through our Corporate Solutions business, we offer companies access to innovative products and software solutions and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Global Listing Services  

Our Global Listing Services business includes our U.S. Listings, European Listings and Corporate Solutions businesses.  

U.S. Listings. Companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market represent a diverse array of industries including health care, consumer products, telecommunication services, information technology, financial services, industrials and energy.  

Companies seeking to list securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market must meet minimum listing requirements, including specified financial and corporate governance criteria. Once listed, companies must meet continued listing standards. The NASDAQ Stock Market currently has three listing tiers: The NASDAQ Global Select Market, The NASDAQ Global Market and The NASDAQ Capital Market. All three market tiers maintain rigorous listing and corporate governance standards (both initial and ongoing).  

As of December 31, 2012, a total of 2,577 companies listed securities on The NASDAQ Stock Market, with 1,446 listings on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, 634 on The NASDAQ Global Market and 497 on The NASDAQ Capital Market.  

We aggressively pursue new listings from companies, including those undergoing IPOs as well as companies seeking to switch from alternative exchanges. In 2012, The NASDAQ Stock Market attracted 158 new listings. Included in these listings were 72 IPOs, almost 48% of the total U.S. IPOs in 2012. The new listings were comprised of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2012, a total of 16 NYSE- or NYSE MKT-listed companies switched to The NASDAQ Stock Market, representing approximately $135 billion in market capitalization, including Kraft Foods, Texas Instruments, Goodyear Tire & Rubber and Analog Devices.  

European Listings. We also offer listings on the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic. For smaller companies and growth companies, we offer access to the financial markets through the NASDAQ OMX First North alternative marketplaces. As of December 31, 2012, a total of 754 companies listed securities on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and NASDAQ OMX First North.  

Our European listing customers are organizations such as companies, funds or governments. Customers issue securities in the form of cash equities, depository receipts, warrants, ETFs, convertibles, rights, options, bonds or fixed-income related products. In 2012, a total of 18 new companies were listed on our Nordic and Baltic exchanges and NASDAQ OMX First North.  

Corporate Solutions. Our Corporate Solutions business provides customer support services, products and programs to customers, including companies listed on our exchanges. Through our Corporate Solutions offerings, companies gain access to innovative products and software solutions and services that ease transparency, mitigate risk, maximize board efficiency and facilitate better corporate governance. We provide corporate solutions in the following key areas of focus:  

   •    Investor Relations. We provide industry-leading investor relations and news distribution products designed to make it easier for companies to interact and communicate with analysts and investors while meeting corporate governance and disclosure requirements.  

   •    Market Monitoring. We offer unique proprietary services that help companies monitor their stock and track peer performance.  

   •    Board Practice. We offer management solutions to ensure board member effectiveness.  

   •    Global Visibility. We provide ways for companies to increase their visibility through our MarketSite offerings and access to discounts and special offers from other listed companies.  

   •    Webcasting. We offer webcasting and investor relations communication services for companies in the Nordic region through our subsidiary ZVM, a leading provider of webcasting services in Northern Europe.  

   •    Corporate Communications and Reputation Management. Through our subsidiary, Glide Technologies, we offer corporate communications and reputation management solutions to investor relations and public relations professionals.  

9  

Table of Contents 

In May 2012, we acquired a 72% ownership interest in BWise, a Netherlands-based service provider that offers enterprise governance, risk management and compliance software and services to help companies track, measure and manage key organizational risks. We have agreed to purchase the remaining 28% ownership interest in BWise in two separate transactions, resulting in 100% ownership by the first half of 2015.  

In December 2012, we entered into an agreement with Thomson Reuters to acquire its Investor Relations, Public Relations and Multimedia Solutions businesses. Upon closing, these complementary businesses will be integrated into our Corporate Solutions business. The proposed transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2013.  

Global Index Group  

We are one of the world’s leading index providers. We develop and license NASDAQ OMX branded indexes, associated derivatives and financial products as part of our Global Index Group business. We believe that these indexes and products leverage, extend and enhance the NASDAQ OMX brand. License fees for our trademark licenses vary by product based on a percentage of underlying assets, dollar value of a product issuance, number of products or number of contracts traded. In addition to generating licensing revenues, these products, particularly mutual funds and ETFs, lead to increased investments in companies listed on our global exchanges, which enhances our ability to attract new listings. We also license cash-settled options, futures and options on futures on our indexes.  

At the end of 2012, NASDAQ OMX indexes were the basis for over 7,000 structured products with nearly $1.0 trillion of notional value. NASDAQ OMX indexes are now the basis for 97 exchange traded products with over $55.0 billion in assets under management. Our flagship index, the NASDAQ-100 Index, includes the top 100 non-financial securities listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market.  

During 2012, the Global Index Group launched the first phase of the NASDAQ Global Index Family, which includes approximately 4,000 indexes. The NASDAQ Global Index Family represents more than 98% of the global equity investable marketplace. The family consists of global securities broken down by market segment, region, country, size and sector. The NASDAQ Global Index Family covers 45 countries and 9,000 securities with a combined float-adjusted market capitalization of over $32 trillion.  

In December 2012, NASDAQ OMX acquired the index business of Mergent, Inc., including Indxis. Mergent is an established index provider and a renowned supplier of business and financial data on global publically listed companies. With this acquisition, NASDAQ OMX Global Indexes became one of the largest providers of dividend-themed indexes based on benchmarked assets and further enhanced its custom index offering capabilities and services.  

Market Technology  

Powering more than 70 marketplaces in over 50 developed and emerging countries, we are the world’s leading technology solutions provider and partner to exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories. We also provide surveillance technology to 11 regulators and 71 brokers world-wide. Our technology business is also the sales channel for our complete global offering to other marketplaces.  

Technology Solutions. The systems solutions we offer support trading, clearing, settlement, surveillance and information dissemination for markets with wide-ranging requirements, from the leading markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia to smaller African markets. Furthermore, the solutions we offer can handle all classes of assets, including cash equities, currencies, various interest-bearing securities, commodities, energy products and derivatives.  

NASDAQ OMX’s technology solutions are utilized by, among others, the Australian Securities Exchange, ICAP, Bolsa de Valores de Colombia, Egypt Stock Exchange, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing, SIX Swiss Exchange, Singapore Exchanges, Tokyo Commodity Exchange, Osaka Securities Exchange and SBI Japannext.  

Our trading and market data solutions are utilized by exchanges, alternative-trading venues, banks and securities brokers with marketplace offerings of their own. In the post-trade stage, we offer integrated systems solutions for clearing (risk management) and settlement (settlement and delivery) of both cash equities and derivatives to clearing organizations around the world.  

Systems Integration, Operation and Support. A central part of many projects is facility management and systems integration. Through our integration services, we can assume total responsibility for projects involving migration to a new system and the establishment of entirely new marketplaces. We also offer operation and support for the applications, systems platforms, networks and other components included in a turn-key information technology solution. By transferring the operation and support of systems to us, the customer can focus on its core operations and reduce its operational risk level. At the same time, economies of scale can be achieved, by allowing the customer access to existing, effective technology and infrastructure.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Advisory Services. Our advisory services are designed to support our customers’ strategies and help them with critical decisions in a highly demanding business environment. Operating our own exchanges and partnering with global marketplaces, we continually gain insight on developments in the financial world. We understand first-hand how marketplaces operate, the challenges they face and the complex technology infrastructures that support them. Our consultants have deep experience in strategy, operations and change management, and are backed by the combined knowledge of NASDAQ OMX as well as a network of external experts in the exchange industry.  

Broker Solutions. SMARTS Broker is a managed service designed for brokers and other market participants to assist them in complying with market rules, regulations and internal market surveillance policies. Delivered via a browser based application, SMARTS Broker is fast to implement, requires no on-site installation or maintenance, and comes with little or no hardware costs. This service covers 50 markets world-wide.  

Core Technology. Technology plays a key role in ensuring the growth and reliability of financial markets. At NASDAQ OMX, we are committed to innovation through technology to ensure our position as a driving force in the exchange industry and to provide the best possible trading experience for our customers and investors. Investment decisions are made based on customer needs and general market trends. In 2012, NASDAQ OMX established an enterprise-wide operational excellence program to strengthen the way we develop, deploy and maintain technology products in the marketplace.  

We continuously improve our core technology with a focus on reducing latency and improving capacity and reliability. NASDAQ OMX’s trading technology is capable of handling multi-million messages per second at an average speed of sub-55 microseconds, currently one of the fastest of any exchange or alternative trading system in the world.  

The foundation for NASDAQ OMX’s core technology is INET. The INET technology is used across NASDAQ OMX’s U.S. and European markets. INET is also a key building block of our Market Technology offerings, Genium INET and X-stream INET. Genium INET and X-stream INET both combine innovative functionality with a modular approach to manage change and create new advantages for existing and new customers.  

Intellectual Property  

We own or have licensed rights to trade names, trademarks, domain names and service marks that we use in conjunction with our operations and services. We have registered many of our most important trademarks in the United States and in foreign countries. For example, our primary “NASDAQ” mark is a registered trademark in the United States and in over 50 other countries worldwide and the OMX trademark also has been registered worldwide. We also have trademark registrations for the most important trade names of NASDAQ OMX Nordic and our operations in Europe. Many of these trademarks are registered in a number of countries. Examples of registered trademarks used in our European operations include: OMX, GENIUM, Genium INET, SECUR, CLICK XT and EXIGO.  

To support our business objectives and benefit from our investments in research and development, we actively seek protection for our innovations by filing patent applications to protect inventions arising from investments in products, systems, software and services. We believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products, systems, software and services, enhancing our ability to access technology of third parties and maximizing our return on research and development investments.  

Over time, we have accumulated a robust portfolio of issued patents in the U.S., Europe and in other parts of the world. We currently hold rights to patents relating to certain aspects of products, systems, software and services, but we primarily rely on the innovative skills, technical competence and marketing abilities of our personnel. Hence, no single patent is in itself essential to us as a whole or any of our principal business areas.  

We also maintain copyright protection in our NASDAQ-branded materials.  

Competition  

Market Services. The cash equity securities markets are intensely competitive. We compete in the U.S. against NYSE Euronext, BATS Global Markets, Direct Edge, regional exchanges and ATSs. In Europe, our major competitors include NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Börse, the London Stock Exchange Group plc, or LSE, the Spanish Exchanges, SIX Swiss Exchange, and multilateral trading facilities, or MTFs, such as Chi-X and BATS Europe, which are similar to U.S. ATSs. Competition also comes from broker-dealers and from off-board, or OTC trading, in the U.S. and elsewhere.  

In bond trading, we compete in Europe with alternative marketplaces such as EuroMTS Limited. For derivatives products, competition comes in the form of trading and clearing that takes place OTC, usually through banks and brokerage firms, or through trading and clearing competition with other exchanges. The competitive significance in Europe of these varied alternative trading  

11  

Table of Contents 

 venues is likely to increase in the future, with the regulatory environment in Europe becoming more favorable to alternative trading venues as a result of the reforms required by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or MiFID, and a broader effort to increase competition in financial services.  

Competition is based on a number of factors, including the quality of our technological and regulatory infrastructure, total transaction costs, the depth and breadth of liquidity, the quality of value-added customer services, reputation and the direct cost of trade execution.  

Cash equity securities trading. The U.S. marketplace continues to evolve as the number of exchanges increases and less heavily regulated broker-owned trading systems and ATSs, known collectively as dark pools, expand in number and activity. While many of the new entrants may have limited liquidity, some may attract significant levels of cash equity order volume through aggressive pricing, through interconnections with other systems, and from volume originating with broker-dealer owners and investors. In 2012, broker-dealer owned systems continued the rapid growth that began in 2009. In addition, there remains interest in electronic trading systems specializing primarily in large block trades, such as LiquidNet and Investment Technology Group’s POSIT platform. During 2010, three new exchange competitors to NASDAQ OMX appeared. No new U.S. exchanges were launched or received approval in 2011 or 2012. However, NASDAQ OMX continues to face fierce competition from all trading venues for market share.  

Regulatory events also could result in significant changes in the competitive landscape. In June 2012, the SEC approved a plan for FINRA and the national securities exchanges to institute a limit up-limit down system designed to reduce short-term volatility in equity trading by preventing trades in individual exchange-listed stocks from occurring outside of a specified price band. The plan is expected to be implemented in 2013 with the intention of replacing the single stock trading pauses currently in place. These regulations stem from the 2010 SEC concept release on market structure issues as well as the events of the May 6, 2010 “flash crash.” In July 2012, the SEC voted to require national securities exchanges and FINRA to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail (CAT) to improve regulators’ ability to monitor trading activity. We are currently working with FINRA and the other national securities exchanges to develop a plan to create a consolidated audit trail. Any potential rules concerning halting trading during volatile markets, market access, algorithmic (high-frequency) trading, alternative trading systems (such as dark pools), and other market structure issues could change the competitive landscape by helping or hurting NASDAQ OMX or its competitors’ business models.  

In December 2012, IntercontinentalExchange, or ICE, announced plans to acquire NYSE Euronext. The deal is expected to close in the second half of 2013, subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals. Should the proposed transaction be completed, ICE has indicated its intent to spin off Euronext via an IPO. This transaction has the potential to affect the competitive environment we face in both the U.S. and Europe.  

The European landscape is continuing to adapt to the competitive forces released by MiFID in November 2007. Throughout Europe, new MTFs have been created with the most prominent MTFs (Chi-X, Turquoise, and BATS) based in the United Kingdom and attracting a significant share of electronically matched volume. In 2012, BATS completed its acquisition of Chi-X Europe and currently operates both platforms independently but under common ownership. MTFs continue to grow their business in shares listed on our Nordic exchanges. Trade reporting alternatives to incumbent exchanges, such as Markit BOAT, also continue to be active. Electronic trading systems interested in pursuing block business have long been active in Europe and are looking to grow their businesses. In the Nordics, the Burgundy MTF grew modestly in 2010 but contracted slightly in both 2011 and 2012 and was acquired by the Oslo Borse in 2012. These entrants pursue many of the same strategies to attract order flow as do ATSs in the U.S., which include attractive pricing, participant investment, technological innovation and pursuit of exchange status. Because of the success of the new entrants, incumbent exchanges have lowered prices, adopted new technology, and prepared to compete aggressively for trading volumes and revenue. While the state of competition in Europe remains evolutionary, the level of competition faced by incumbent national exchanges will remain intense.  

As a result of the conditions in the U.S. and Europe, we experience competition in our core trading activities such as execution services, quoting and trading capabilities, and reporting services. Many of our competitors have engaged in aggressive price competition by reducing the trade execution transaction fees they charge their customers. As a result of this competition, we significantly reduced the trade execution transaction fees we charge our customers in the past, particularly our large-volume customers. We periodically reexamine our pricing structure to ensure that our fees remain competitive.  

Derivatives. Our principal competitors for trading options in the U.S. include the Chicago Board Options Exchange, or CBOE, the International Securities Exchange, or ISE, NYSE ARCA, NYSE Amex, BATs Options, C2 Options Exchange and the BOX Options Exchange. Competition is focused on providing market participants with greater functionality, trading system stability, customer service, efficient pricing, and speed of execution. NASDAQ OMX operates three options exchanges with different market structures. NASDAQ OMX PHLX operates a customer priority, pro-rata hybrid electronic and floor based exchange and competes most directly with CBOE, ISE, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex. The NASDAQ Options Market operates a price/time priority exchange and competes most directly with NYSE ARCA and BATS Options. On June 29, 2012, NASDAQ OMX launched NASDAQ OMX BX Options, its third options platform. NASDAQ OMX BX Options supports multiple allocation and priority models, including  

12  

Table of Contents 

 price/time priority and customer priority with pro rata execution allocation. Miami International Holdings, Inc. received approval to launch MIAX Options Exchange, a fully electronic options platform, and did so in December 2012. The further intensifying of competition for exchange traded options means that we must continuously review our technology and pricing.  

MiFID does not address competition between derivatives markets to the extent that it addresses cash equities trading and consequently has been slower to affect competition in trading derivative securities. In 2012, NASDAQ OMX agreed to acquire a 25% stake in TOM, which competes with NYSE Euronext for trading single stock derivatives in the Netherlands. As of the end of 2012, TOM’s market share was 15%. Exchange based competition for trading in European derivatives continues to occur mainly where there is competition in trading for the underlying equities and our competition for options on European equities is primarily with EUREX Group, or EUREX, NYSE Liffe, EDX London Limited and, to a limited extent, the U.S. options exchanges. Such competition is limited to options on a small number of equity securities although these securities tend to be among the most active. In addition to exchange based competition in derivatives, we continue to face competition from OTC derivative markets.  

As trading in Europe evolves under the current review of the original MiFID legislation, competition for trading volumes in derivatives will likely increase. Both current and potential competition require us to constantly reassess our pricing and product offerings in order to remain competitive.  

Clearing. In both the U.S. and Europe, cash equity clearing has been organized along national lines. Typically, a single clearinghouse would serve essentially all cash equity trading involving securities listed on exchanges within a nation’s borders. Some countries, such as Sweden, did not have a clearinghouse until 2009. In some countries, such as the U.S., the clearinghouse is part of the same organization as the central securities depository. In some, such as Germany, the clearinghouse and the stock exchange are part of the same corporate structure, and in others, such as the U.K., the clearinghouse, exchange, and central securities depository are separate. Furthermore, there is a much shorter history of using CCP services in European clearing than in the U.S.  

At this time, competition in clearing in Europe remains limited with a few new non-national clearinghouses such as EMCF, X-Clear and EuroCCP serving non-national MTFs or offering alternative clearing facilities for trades executed on incumbent exchanges. However, competition is altering the clearing business in Europe in response to the European Code of Conduct in Clearing and Settlement.  

In the U.S., competition in equity clearing has been legislatively called for since 1975 but only recently have technological advances made competitive clearing in the U.S. a viable possibility. Should clearing competition become a reality in the U.S., it may have an impact on equity trading and on our business as clearing is a non-trivial cost of trade execution.  

Market data services. The market data business in the U.S. includes both consolidated and proprietary data products. Consolidated data products are distributed by SEC-mandated consolidators (one for NASDAQ-listed stocks and another for NYSE and other-listed stocks) that share the revenue among the exchanges that contribute data. Proprietary data products are made up exclusively of data derived from each exchange’s systems. In Europe, all market data products are proprietary as there is no official data consolidator.  

Our revenues from the sale of consolidated market data products and services are under competitive threat from other securities exchanges that trade NASDAQ-listed securities. Current SEC regulations permit these regional exchanges and FINRA’s Alternative Display Facility to quote and trade NASDAQ-listed securities. Trade reporting facilities regulated by FINRA are also operated by The NASDAQ Stock Market and other exchanges. The UTP Plan entitles these exchanges, FINRA’s Alternative Display Facility, and the trade reporting facilities to a share of UTP Plan tape fees, based on the formula required by Regulation NMS that takes into account both trading and quoting activity. In addition, The NASDAQ Stock Market similarly competes for the tape fees from the sale of information on NYSE—and NYSE MKT-listed securities for those respective tape plans.  

Participants in the tape plans have used tape fee revenues to establish payment for order flow arrangements with their members and customers. In January 2004, we implemented a new tiered pricing structure and the Nasdaq General Revenue Sharing Program, which provided incentives for quoting market participants to send orders and report trades to The NASDAQ Stock Market. We continuously evaluate and refine both programs. To remain competitive, in July 2006 and in January 2008, we changed the terms of the program and established a new Nasdaq Data Revenue Sharing Program. In December 2010, we again changed the terms of the program which were effective January 2011. We may adjust either program in the future to respond to competitive pressures.  

The sale of our proprietary data products in both the U.S. and Europe is under competitive threat from alternative exchanges and trading venues that offer similar products, sometimes at a lower price or free of charge. Our market data business competes with other exchanges and third party vendors in providing information to market participants. Consequently, our data products must be competitive in speed, reliability, content and price to succeed in the marketplace. New exchanges and trading systems entering the market have recognized the strong connection between market data and transactions volume, and new entrants typically price their market data very aggressively in order to grow transactions volume, thereby limiting our flexibility in pricing market data. Any action by a market participant to provide information to another exchange or market data vendor could have a negative impact on our data products. The market data business must also adapt to rapidly changing information delivery technologies and constantly invest in  

13  

Table of Contents 

 innovative product design and development. Other market data providers may not face the regulatory obligations we face and may consequently be more flexible in pricing and more agile in deploying new products and business methods to our detriment. The growth of the number of proprietary data feeds offered by NASDAQ OMX and other exchanges has also increased the reluctance of some data vendors to add new feeds to their product offerings which further complicates exchanges’ efforts to expand their market data offerings.  

Listings. Our primary competitor for larger company listings in the U.S. is NYSE. The NASDAQ Stock Market also competes with NYSE MKT for listing of smaller companies. In early 2012, BATS announced its first primary listings which are currently limited to ETFs. DirectEdge has announced its intention to compete for listings in the future. The NASDAQ Stock Market also competes with local and overseas markets for listings by companies that choose to list outside of their home country.  

The listings business in Europe is characterized by the large number of exchanges competing for new or secondary listings. Each country has one or more national exchanges that are often the first choice of companies in the respective countries. For those considering an alternative, the European exchanges that attract the most overseas listings are LSE, NYSE Euronext, Deutsche Börse and the exchanges that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic. In addition to the larger exchanges, companies are able to consider smaller markets and quoting facilities, such as LSE’s Alternative Investment Market, Euronext’s Alternext, Deutsche Börse’s Entry Standard, Borsa Italiana’s Expandi Market, PLUS Markets plc, the Pink Sheets LLC and the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or OTCBB. Other exchanges in Sweden include the Nordic Growth Market and Aktietorget, which primarily serve companies with small market capitalizations.  

Indexes. The NASDAQ Stock Market is subject to intense competition for the listing of financial products from other exchanges. The indexes on which these products are based face competition from indexes created by a large number of index providers. For example, there are a number of indexes that aim to track the technology sector and thereby compete with the NASDAQ-100 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index. We face competition from investment banks, dedicated index providers, markets and other product developers in designing products that meet investor needs.  

Market Technology. The traditional model, where each exchange or exchange-related business developed its own technology internally sometimes aided by consultants, is evolving as many operators recognize the enormous cost savings made possible by buying technology already developed. Two types of competitors are emerging: other exchanges providing solutions, including NYSE Euronext and LSE, and pure technology providers focused on the exchange industry. These organizations offer a range of off-the-shelf technology including trading, clearing, settlement, depository and information dissemination. They also offer customization and operation expertise. NASDAQ OMX provides technology to over 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories worldwide and provides compliance services through its subsidiary SMARTS.  

Regulation  

We are subject to extensive regulation in the United States and Europe.  

U.S. Regulation  

U.S. federal securities laws establish a two-tiered system for the regulation of securities markets, market participants and listed companies. The SEC occupies the first tier and has primary responsibility for enforcing the federal securities laws. Self-regulatory organizations, or SROs, which are non-governmental organizations, occupy the second tier. SROs, such as national securities exchanges, are registered with the SEC and are subject to the SEC’s extensive regulation and oversight.  

This regulatory framework applies to our U.S. business in the following ways:  

   •    regulation of our registered national securities exchanges; and  

   •    regulation of our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries.  

The rules and regulations that apply to our business are focused primarily on safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and of market participants and investors generally. These rules and regulations are not focused on the protection of our stockholders, although we believe that regulation improves the quality of exchanges and, therefore, our company. U.S. federal securities laws and the rules that govern our operations are subject to frequent change.  

Regulation of U.S. Exchanges. SROs in the securities industry are an essential component of the regulatory scheme of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, for providing fair and orderly markets and protecting investors. The Exchange Act and the rules thereunder impose on the SROs many regulatory and operational responsibilities, including the day-to-day responsibilities for market and broker-dealer oversight. In general, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules and regulations governing the business conduct of its members.  

With the registration of The NASDAQ Stock Market as a national securities exchange in 2006, we received our own SRO status through our exchange subsidiary, separate from that of FINRA. With the acquisitions of PHLX and BSX, we acquired additional SRO  

14  

Table of Contents 

 licenses. As SROs, each entity has separate rules pertaining to its broker-dealer members and listed companies. Broker-dealers that choose to become members of The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, and/or NASDAQ OMX BX are subject to the rules of those exchanges. Broker-dealers may also choose other SRO memberships, including membership in FINRA.  

All of our U.S. national securities exchanges are subject to SEC oversight, as prescribed by the Exchange Act, including periodic and special examinations by the SEC. Our exchanges also are potentially subject to regulatory or legal action by the SEC or other interested parties at any time in connection with alleged regulatory violations. We are also subject to Section 17 of the Exchange Act, which imposes record-keeping requirements, including the requirement to make records available to the SEC for examination. We have been subject to a number of routine reviews and inspections by the SEC or external auditors in the ordinary course and because of settlements with the SEC. To the extent such actions or reviews and inspections result in regulatory or other changes, we may be required to modify the manner in which we conduct our business, which may adversely affect our business.  

Section 19 of the Exchange Act provides that our exchanges must submit to the SEC proposed changes to any of the SROs’ rules, practices and procedures, including revisions to provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws that constitute SRO rules. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal, as it deems appropriate. The SEC’s action is designed to ensure that applicable SRO rules and procedures are consistent with the aims of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. In addition, pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, our exchanges must file all proposals to change their pricing structure with the SEC.  

NASDAQ OMX currently operates three cash equities and three options markets in the United States. We operate The NASDAQ Stock Market and The NASDAQ Options Market pursuant to The NASDAQ Stock Market’s SRO license; NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX BX Options pursuant to NASDAQ OMX BX’s SRO license; and NASDAQ OMX PSX and the NASDAQ OMX PHLX options market pursuant to NASDAQ OMX PHLX’s SRO license. In addition, NASDAQ OMX BX regulated the BOX Market, pursuant to a regulatory services agreement between a subsidiary of NASDAQ OMX BX and BOX. NASDAQ OMX did not have an ownership interest in BOX, and BOX compensated NASDAQ OMX BX based on the cost of the regulatory services provided to BOX. Under the terms of the regulatory services agreement, NASDAQ OMX BX’s services for the BOX Market terminated for trades occurring after May 11, 2012. BOX became its own SRO on May 14, 2012. NASDAQ OMX BX will continue to provide regulatory services for trades occurring prior to the termination date until all regulatory matters related to these trades have been resolved.  

FINRA provides regulatory services to the markets operated or regulated by The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NASDAQ OMX BX, including the regulation of trading activity and surveillance and investigative functions. We have a limited direct regulatory role in conducting real-time market monitoring, certain options surveillance, rulemaking and some membership functions through our MarketWatch department. We refer suspicious trading behavior discovered by our regulatory staff and all other employees of the markets operated or regulated by The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX and NASDAQ OMX BX to FINRA for further investigation.  

Regulatory Audit. Prior to our acquisition of BSX, BSX was issued an administrative order by the SEC in September 2007. Pursuant to the order, BSX agreed to comply with certain undertakings, one of which was to retain a third-party auditor to conduct a comprehensive audit of BSX’s surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs. BSX also undertook to include the audit opinion in its annual report. Since neither BSX nor its successor entity NASDAQ OMX BX prepares an annual report, the report of the regulatory auditor, Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP, which was dated January 7, 2013, is included below.   

The Nasdaq OMX BX, Inc. (“Nasdaq” or the “Exchange”) retained Katten Muchin Rosenman LLP (“Katten”) as a third-party auditor to fulfill an undertaking with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”), made pursuant to an administrative order (the “Order”) originally issued against the Boston Stock Exchange (“BSE”) in September 2007.(1) The Order required the third-party auditor to provide an audit opinion as to its assessment of the Exchange’s surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs.(2) We are writing at this time to provide our audit opinion as required by the Order.  

As noted above, the Order was originally issued against the BSE. The Order detailed violations of customer priority rules committed by specialist participant firms on the trading floor of the BSE between 1999 and 2004 involving the BEACON trading system. In 2008, Nasdaq acquired all of the outstanding membership interest in the BSE and its two subsidiaries, Boston Options Exchange Regulation, L.L.C. and the BSE Clearing Corporation. Although the activities detailed by the Order had no relation to Nasdaq (other than through Nasdaq’s acquisition of BSE), Nasdaq proceeded with third-party audits of the Boston Options Exchange (“BOX”) and the equities platform of Nasdaq OMX BX (which commenced operations in January 2009).  

The Order required the third-party auditor to conduct an initial audit and a second audit two years after the date of the initial audit. The third-party auditor was to evaluate certain aspects of the Exchange including the surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs of the Exchange. As well, the Order required the third-party auditor to evaluate the Exchange’s testing process of the Exchange’s automated surveillance systems to analyze the effectiveness of such surveillance systems.(3)   

15  

Table of Contents 

Katten completed the first round of audits in 2010 and issued confidential reports concerning the surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs of BOX on June 29, 2010 and the equities platform of Nasdaq OMX BX on July 30, 2010 (collectively, the “Audit Reports”). The field work for the audits was conducted between November 2009 through March 2010 (“Audit Period”). An additional report assessing the testing process and surveillance quality assurance for Nasdaq OMX BX for equities was issued in February 2012 by a technology consultant. While field work for the technology review of BOX began in February 2012, the work was terminated when BOX ceased to be a facility of the Exchange in April 2012.(4)   

Based on the scope of our audit and our considerations of the assessments set forth in our confidential Audit Reports and other such matters as we have deemed appropriate, we have concluded that notwithstanding certain observations and weaknesses that we have identified, including those set forth in the Audit Reports, Nasdaq OMX BX’s policies and procedures were reasonably designed and effective to detect and deter violations of the applicable federal securities laws and Exchange rules relating to trading on the Exchange during the Audit Period.  

We recognize that no regulator can provide total assurance that violations of federal securities laws and Exchange rules relating to trading will be detected by surveillance systems and examinations. Also, the continued reasonableness of design and effectiveness of the Exchange’s policies and procedures after the Audit Period is subject to the risk that the Exchange’s policies and procedures may become inadequate or ineffective due to changes in business conditions or regulatory requirements or that the degree of compliance with such policies and procedures may decline.  

The conclusion expressed in this letter is as of the date hereof. We assume no obligation to update, revise, or supplement this letter, nor to communicate further with or advise you with respect to any matter covered herein or any change, development, occurrence, circumstance, or condition in respect of any such matter. This letter is furnished solely to you in connection with the matters covered herein. This letter may not be used, relied upon, disclosed, circulated, published, communicated, made available, quoted, or referred to, by or to any other person, for any other purpose, or in connection with any other agreement, document, transaction or matter without the prior written consent of the undersigned.  

 (1) Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34-56352 (Sept. 5, 2007).  

 (2) The Order states that “[n]o later than 45 days after each audit is concluded, BSE shall require the auditor to submit an audit opinion as to its assessment of the BSE’s surveillance, examination, investigation and disciplinary programs to the BSE’s Board of Governors and to the following officers at the Commission : (i) the Director of OCIE; (ii) the Director of the Division of Market Regulation; and (iii) the Director of the Boston Regional Office.” The Order at 9.  

 (3) The Order required the auditor to “evaluate the BSE’s live testing process, to be conducted during non-trading hours, of the BSE’s automated surveillance systems using simulated trading data that includes data suggesting possibly abusive trading instances, including an analysis of the effectiveness of such surveillance systems when tested against the simulated trading patterns.” Order at 8.  

 (4) The BOX Options Exchange LLC received approval from the Commission as a national securities exchange on April 27, 2012. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 66871 (April 27, 2012).  

Broker-dealer regulation. NASDAQ OMX’s broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the SEC, the SROs and the various state securities regulators. Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC currently operates as our routing broker for sending orders from The Nasdaq Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and NASDAQ OMX PSX to other venues for execution. NASDAQ Options Services, LLC performs a comparable function with respect to routing of orders from The NASDAQ Options Market, NASDAQ OMX BX Options and NASDAQ OMX PHLX.  

Nasdaq Execution Services is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is also a member of The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, BATS-Y Exchange, BATS-Z Exchange, CBOE, Chicago Stock Exchange, EDGA Exchange, EDGX Exchange, FINRA, National Stock Exchange, NYSE, NYSE MKT and NYSE Arca.  

NASDAQ Options Services is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. It is also a member of The NASDAQ Stock Market , NASDAQ OMX PHLX, NASDAQ OMX BX Options, BATS-Z Exchange, BOX, CBOE, C2 Options Exchange, FINRA, ISE, NFA, Miami International Stock Exchange, NYSE MKT and NYSE Arca.  

16  

Table of Contents 

The SEC, NYSE and FINRA adopt rules and examine broker-dealers and require strict compliance with their rules and regulations. The SEC, SROs and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings which can result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, its officers or employees. The SEC and state regulators may also institute proceedings against broker-dealers seeking an injunction or other sanction. The SEC and SRO rules cover many aspects of a broker-dealer’s business, including capital structure and withdrawals, sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, record-keeping, the financing of customers’ purchases, broker-dealer and employee registration and the conduct of directors, officers and employees. All broker-dealers have an SRO that is assigned by the SEC as the broker-dealer’s designated examining authority, or DEA. The DEA is responsible for examining a broker-dealer for compliance with the SEC’s financial responsibility rules. FINRA is the current DEA for both Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services.  

As registered broker-dealer subsidiaries, Nasdaq Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and FINRA impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the Uniform Net Capital Rule and FINRA rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC and FINRA for certain withdrawals of capital.  

As of December 31, 2012, NASDAQ Execution Services and NASDAQ Options Services were in compliance with all of the applicable capital requirements.  

Regulatory contractual relationships with FINRA. The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX PHLX, NASDAQ OMX PSX and NASDAQ OMX BX have signed a series of regulatory service agreements covering the services FINRA provides to the respective SROs. Under these agreements, FINRA personnel act as our agents in performing the regulatory functions outlined above, and FINRA bills us a fee for these services. These agreements have enabled us to reduce our headcount while ensuring that the markets for which we are responsible are properly regulated. However, our SROs retain ultimate regulatory responsibility for all regulatory activities performed under these agreements by FINRA. In addition, our options markets have entered into a joint agreement with the other options exchanges for conducting insider trading surveillance. Our SROs continue to monitor the activities conducted under the agreement and continue to have regulatory responsibility in this area.  

Exchange Act Rule 17d-2 permits SROs to enter into agreements, commonly called Rule 17d-2 agreements, approved by the SEC with respect to enforcement of common rules relating to common members. Our SROs have entered into several such agreements under which FINRA assumes regulatory responsibility for specifics covered by the agreement:  

   •    agreements with FINRA covering the enforcement of common rules, the majority of which relate to the regulation of The NASDAQ Stock Market, NASDAQ OMX BX and the members of these exchanges;  

   •    joint industry agreements with FINRA covering responsibility for enforcement of insider trading rules;  

   •    joint industry agreement with FINRA covering enforcement of rules related to cash equity sales practices and certain other non-market related rules; and  

   •    joint industry agreement covering enforcement of rules related to options sales practices.  

Regulation NMS and Options Intermarket Linkage Plan. We are subject to Regulation NMS for our cash equities markets, and our options markets have joined the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan. These are designed to facilitate the routing of orders among exchanges to create a national market system as mandated by the Exchange Act. One of the principal purposes of a national market system is to assure that brokers may execute investors’ orders at the best market price. Both Regulation NMS and the Options Intermarket Linkage Plan require that exchanges avoid trade-throughs, locking or crossing of markets and provide market participants with electronic access to the best prices among the markets for the applicable cash equity or options order.  

CFTC Regulation. With the acquisition of PHLX, we also acquired its subsidiary, NFX (formerly the Philadelphia Board of Trade), a designated contract market under the Commodity Exchange Act. As a designated contract market, NFX is subject to regulatory oversight by the CFTC, an independent agency with the mandate to regulate commodity futures and option markets in the U.S. NFX currently lists futures contracts for spot gold. The National Futures Association, or NFA, and The Options Clearing Corporation provide certain regulatory services to NFX pursuant to regulatory services agreements.  

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, also has resulted in increased CFTC regulation of some of our subsidiaries outside the United States and their customers.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Energy Commodity Regulation. Our subsidiary NOCC is regulated as a power marketer by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (for transactions in every state but Texas) and the Public Utility Commission of Texas (for transactions in Texas).  

European Regulation  

Regulation of our markets in the European Union and EEA focuses on issues relating to financial services, listing and trading of securities and market abuse. At the end of 2012, new regulations relating to CCP services and OTC derivatives transactions were adopted that will affect our clearinghouses in Europe. As the regulatory environment continues to change and related opportunities arise, we intend to continue product development, and ensure that the exchanges and clearinghouses that comprise NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic maintain favorable liquidity and offer efficient trading.  

Confidence in capital markets is paramount for trading to function properly. NASDAQ OMX Nordic carries out market regulation through an independent unit that is separate from the business operations. The surveillance work is organized into two functions: one for the listing of instruments and surveillance of companies (issuer surveillance) and one for surveillance of trading (trading surveillance). The real-time trading surveillance for the Finnish, Icelandic, Danish and Swedish markets has been centralized to Stockholm. In Iceland, the surveillance activities are carried out by specially appointed persons. In addition, there are special personnel who carry out surveillance activities at each of the three Baltic exchanges and at NASDAQ OMX Oslo ASA with respect to the trading of commodities derivatives. There are three surveillance committees at NASDAQ OMX Nordic, one at each NASDAQ OMX Nordic exchange in Sweden, Finland and Denmark. These committees have an advisory role in relation to surveillance matters. In Sweden and Finland, decisions to list new companies are made by the listing committees of the exchanges. In Denmark and Iceland, listing decisions are made by the President of the exchange, a duty delegated by the board of NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen and NASDAQ OMX Iceland, respectively.  

If there is suspicion that a listed company or member has acted in breach of exchange regulations, the matter is dealt with by the market regulation division. Serious breaches are considered by the respective disciplinary committee in Sweden and Finland. In Denmark, all matters are dealt with by the surveillance department. In Iceland, enforcement committees handle all breaches of exchange regulations, while disciplinary committees handle the determination of fines. Suspected insider trading is reported to the appropriate authorities in the respective country or countries.  

The entities that operate trading venues in the Nordic and Baltic countries are each subject to local regulation. In Sweden, general supervision of the exchange market operated by NASDAQ OMX Stockholm is carried out by the SFSA, while NASDAQ OMX Stockholm’s role as CCP in the clearing of derivatives is overseen by the SFSA and the Swedish central bank, Riksbanken. Additionally, as a function of the Swedish two-tier supervisory model, certain surveillance in relation to the exchange market is carried out by us, acting through our surveillance division.  

NASDAQ OMX Stockholm’s exchange and clearing activities are regulated primarily by the Swedish Securities Markets Act 2007:528 (SSMA), which sets up basic requirements regarding the board of the exchange or clearinghouse and its share capital, and which also outlines the conditions on which exchange and clearing licenses are issued. The SSMA also provides that any changes to the exchange’s articles of association following initial registration must be approved by the SFSA.  

In December 2012, the European Commission adopted nine implementing technical standards to complement the obligations defined under the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) which became effective in August 2012. As a consequence of EMIR, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm and all European CCPs will need to reauthorize their CCP operations.  

With respect to ongoing operations, the SSMA requires exchanges to conduct their activities in an “honest, fair and professional manner, and in such a way as to maintain public confidence in the securities markets.” When operating a regulated market, an exchange must apply the principles of free access (i.e., that each person which meets the requirements established by law and by the exchange may participate in trading), neutrality (i.e., that the exchange’s rules for the regulated market are applied in a consistent manner to all those who participate in trading) and transparency (i.e., that the participants must be given speedy, simultaneous and correct information concerning trading and that the general public must be given the opportunity to access this information). Additionally, the exchange operator must identify and manage the risks that may arise in its operations, use secure technical systems and identify and handle the conflicts of interest that may arise between the exchange or its owners’ interests and the interest in safeguarding effective risk management and secure technical systems. Similar requirements are set up by the SSMA and EMIR in relation to clearing operations.  

The SSMA also contains the framework for both the SFSA’s supervisory work in relation to exchanges and clearinghouses and the surveillance to be carried out by the exchanges themselves. The latter includes the requirement that an exchange should have “an independent surveillance function with sufficient resources and powers to meet the exchange’s obligations.” That requires the exchange to, among other things, supervise trading and price information, compliance with laws, regulations and good market practice, participant compliance with trading participation rules, financial instrument compliance with relevant listing rules and the extent to which issuers meet their obligation to submit regular financial information to relevant authorities.  

18  

Table of Contents 

The regulatory environment in the other Nordic and Baltic countries in which a NASDAQ OMX entity has a trading venue is broadly similar to the regulatory environment in Sweden. Since 2005, there has been a Memorandum of Understanding between the SFSA and the main supervisory authorities in Norway, Denmark and Finland, which looks to safeguard effective and comprehensive supervision of the exchanges comprising NASDAQ OMX Nordic and the systems operated by it, and to ensure a common supervisory approach.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2012, NASDAQ OMX had 2,506 employees, including staff employed at consolidated entities where we have a controlling financial interest. Of the total employees, 1,123 were based in the U.S. and 1,383 were based outside of the U.S. None of our U.S. employees is subject to collective bargaining agreements or is represented by a union. Approximately 91 employees based in Denmark and Finland are covered by local union agreements.  

NASDAQ OMX Website and Availability of SEC Filings  

We file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC (such as us). The address of that site is http://www.sec.gov.  

Our website is www.nasdaqomx.com. Information on our website is not a part of this Form 10-K. We will make available free of charge on our website, or provide a link to, our Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K and any amendments to these documents, that are filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to NASDAQ OMX’s website and click on “Investor Relations,” then under “Financial Information” click on “SEC Filings.”  

We use our website, www.nasdaqomx.com, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with disclosure obligations under Regulation FD.  

Item 1A. Risk Factors.