PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Description of Business

The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (NYSE symbol: BK), is a global investments company headquartered in New York, New York, with $28.5 trillion in assets under custody and/or administration and $1.7 trillion in assets under management as of Dec. 31, 2014. With its subsidiaries, BNY Mellon has been in business since 1784. 

We divide our businesses into two principal segments, Investment Management and Investment Services. We also have an Other segment, which includes credit-related services, the leasing portfolio, corporate treasury activities (including our investment securities portfolio), our equity interest in ConvergEx Group, business exits and corporate overhead.

For a further discussion of BNY Mellon’s products and services, see the “Overview”, “Summary of financial results”, “Fee and other revenue – Foreign exchange and other trading revenue”, “Review of businesses” and “International operations” sections in the MD&A section in the Annual Report and Notes 24 and 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference. See the “Available Information” section on page 1 of this Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference, for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon. 

Our two principal banking subsidiaries are:

•The Bank of New York Mellon, a New York state-chartered bank, which houses our Investment Services businesses, including Asset Servicing, Issuer Services, Treasury Services, Broker-Dealer and Advisor Services as well as the bank-advised business of Asset Management; and

•BNY Mellon, National Association (“BNY Mellon, N.A.”), a national bank, which houses our Wealth Management business. 

Our two principal U.S. banking subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment 

management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. 

We have four other U.S. bank and/or trust company subsidiaries concentrating on trust products and services across the United States: The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, BNY Mellon Trust of Delaware, BNY Mellon Investment Servicing Trust Company and BNY Mellon Trust Company of Illinois. Most of our asset management businesses, along with our Pershing businesses, are direct or indirect non-bank subsidiaries of BNY Mellon.

Each of our bank and trust company subsidiaries is subject to regulation by the applicable bank regulatory authority. The deposits of our U.S. banking subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the extent provided by law.

BNY Mellon’s branches and subsidiaries outside the United States are subject to regulation by non-U.S. regulatory authorities in addition to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”).  The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV (“BNYMSA”) is the main banking subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon in continental Europe. It is authorized and regulated as a credit institution by the National Bank of Belgium and is also supervised by the European Central Bank. BNYMSA has its principal office in Brussels and branches in Amsterdam, the Netherlands; Dublin, Ireland; Frankfurt, Germany; London, England; the City of Luxembourg, Luxembourg and Paris, France. BNYMSA’s activities are in the Investment Services segment of BNY Mellon with a focus on global custody, asset servicing and collateral management. For additional discussion, see the “MD&A —Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report.

Information on international operations is presented in the “Net interest revenue”, “Income taxes”, “Review of businesses”, “International operations”, “Consolidated balance sheet review” and “Supervision and Regulation” sections in the MD&A section in the Annual Report, Notes 4, 5 and 25 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report and in “Risk Factors – We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating globally and which may adversely affect our business” in the Annual 

4 BNY Mellon 

Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

Primary Subsidiaries

Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon’s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2014.

Supervision and Regulation

Information on the supervision and regulation of BNY Mellon can be found in the “MD&A — Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report. That information is incorporated into this item by reference. 

Competition

BNY Mellon is subject to competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Investment Management business competes with domestic and international asset management firms, hedge funds, investment banking companies and other financial services companies, including trust banks, brokerage firms, and insurance companies. Our Investment Services business competes with domestic and international financial services firms that offer custody services, corporate trust services, clearing services, collateral management services, credit services, securities brokerage, foreign exchange services, derivatives, depositary receipt services and cash management services and related products, as well as a wide range of technology service providers, such as financial services data processing firms. Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, rates, lending limits and customer convenience.

Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of financial holding companies, banks and trust companies, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the “MD&A — Supervision and Regulation” section in the Annual Report and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over us and our subsidiaries in certain respects.

Many broad-based financial services firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and insurance to brokerage and asset 

management, which may enhance their competitive position. 

As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to our clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. 

The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to being able to implement this. 

For additional discussion regarding competition, see “MD&A — Risk Factors – We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability” in the Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Employees

At Dec. 31, 2014, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 50,300 employees.

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding Companies

I.Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential 

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Supplemental information – Rate/volume analysis” sections in the MD&A and in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

II. Investment Portfolio

A.Book Value of Investments;

B.Maturity Distribution and Yields of Investments; and

C.Aggregate Book Value and Market Value of Investments where Issuer Exceeds 10% of Stockholders’ Equity

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Investment securities” sections in the MD&A and in 

BNY Mellon 5

Notes 1 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

III. Loan Portfolio

A.Types of Loans; and

B.Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” section in the MD&A and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

C.Risk Elements; and

D.Other Interest-bearing Assets

Information required by these sections of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Loans” and “– Nonperforming assets” and “International operations – Cross-border risk”, “– Exposure in Ireland, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Russia and Ukraine” sections in the MD&A and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Critical accounting estimates – Allowance for loan losses and allowance for lending-related commitments” section in the MD&A, which portion is incorporated herein by reference, and below.

When losses on specific loans are identified, the portion deemed uncollectible is charged off. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Asset quality and allowance for credit losses” section in the MD&A, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management’s judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report in the “Risk management – Credit risk” and “Critical 

accounting estimates” sections in the MD&A and Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

V. Deposits

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Net interest revenue” and “Consolidated balance sheet review – Deposits” sections in the MD&A and in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.

VI. Return on Equity and Assets

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Financial Summary” section, which is incorporated herein by reference.

VII. Short-Term Borrowings

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in the “Consolidated balance sheet review – Short-term borrowings” section in the MD&A, which portion is incorporated herein by reference.

Replacement Capital Covenants

BNY Mellon has covenanted in favor of the holders of its 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have CUSIP No. 585515AE9, that subject to certain exceptions it will not redeem or purchase any of the securities issued or held by Mellon Capital III or Mellon Capital IV, or any interest that has been deferred on the debt securities held by Mellon Capital III, prior to specified dates in 2056 and 2022, respectively, for a price that exceeds a maximum amount determined by reference to the net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon has received from the sale of certain qualifying securities since Sept. 11, 2012.

BNY Mellon’s replacement capital covenants, as amended and restated, are filed as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2012. The description of the replacement capital covenants is qualified by reference to their full text.

6 BNY Mellon 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS