ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand McCormick & Company Incorporated, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this report.  

McCormick is a global leader in flavor. The Company manufactures, markets and distributes spices, seasoning mixes, condiments and other flavorful products to the entire food industry–retail outlets, food manufacturers and foodservice businesses. We currently manage our business in two operating segments, consumer and industrial as described in Item 1 of this report.  

Our strategy for growth is to increase sales and profit by investing in the business and fueling that investment with CCI cost savings. Our long-term annual growth objectives are to increase sales 4% to 6%, increase operating income 7% to 9% and increase earnings per share 9% to 11%. Over time, we expect similar contributions to sales growth from our base business–driven by brand marketing support, expanded distribution and category growth, from product innovation, and from acquisitions. In addition to sales growth, our Comprehensive Continuous Improvement program–CCI–is contributing to higher operating income and earnings per share. CCI is our ongoing initiative to improve productivity and reduce costs throughout the organization.  

Our business generates strong cash flow and we have a balanced use of cash, funding dividends, which have increased in each of the past 26 years, capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchases. Each year, we expect a combination of acquisitions and share repurchases to add about 2% to increased earnings per share.  

In 2011, our financial results varied from these long-term goals. Sales grew 11%, exceeding the long-term objective of 4% to 6%, due primarily to increased prices taken in response to significant increases in raw and packaging material costs. The increase in operating income of 6%, was close to our long term expectations. Several factors affected earnings per share which was $2.79 in 2011 compared to $2.75 in 2010. As explained in more detail in the following section, we recorded transaction costs associated with completed acquisitions, which lowered 2011 earnings per share $0.07. In addition, we recorded the reversal of a significant tax accrual in 2010 that added $0.10 to earnings per share.  

In addition to strong financial results, we had a number of important accomplishments which included:  

   —    New products launched in the past three years added 9% to 2011 sales.  

   —    We completed three acquisitions, with two of these in emerging markets which offer more rapid growth.  

   —    CCI cost savings reached $65 million.  

In a challenging economic environment and period of material cost volatility, we had a strong financial performance in 2011.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2011 COMPARED TO 2010  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales for the fiscal year rose 10.8% from 2010 with double-digit growth in both of our consumer and industrial businesses. Our pricing actions, taken to offset the impact of steep increases in material costs, added 4.6% to sales, and favorable foreign exchange rates increased sales another 2.1%. New product introductions, expanded distribution and brand marketing support led to favorable volume and product mix, which combined, added 2.5% to sales. Acquisitions added 1.6% to sales.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2011, gross profit increased 7.4%, however our gross profit margin declined 130 basis points. In fiscal year 2011, we experienced a double digit increase in raw material and packaging costs. While we have been able to offset the dollar  

12  

 impact of these costs with our pricing actions and CCI cost savings, the net impact of these factors caused downward pressure on gross profit as a percentage of net sales. In addition, we had a negative effect on gross margin from product and segment mix in the year. Product mix was unfavorable in our industrial business with an increased demand for ingredients and weak demand for branded foodservice products during this period. Unfavorable segment mix was due to the higher sales growth rate of our industrial business, which has lower gross margin than our consumer business. CCI cost savings totaled $65 million in 2011, of which $45 million lowered cost of goods sold.  

We are projecting our raw material and packaging costs to rise at a high single digit rate in fiscal year 2012. We expect that these cost increases will be offset by a combination of price increases, some of which were initiated late in 2011, and CCI cost savings.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Selling, general and administrative expenses in total dollars increased in 2011 compared to 2010, but decreased as a percentage of net sales for those same time periods. The increase in total dollars was largely driven by higher incremental brand marketing support, SG&A of acquired businesses and $10.9 million of transaction costs related to completed acquisitions. The decrease in SG&A as a percent of net sales is primarily driven by lower selling costs as a percentage of net sales.  

During 2011, we increased brand marketing support by $20.1 million or 12%. A portion of this increase was in digital marketing, which is one of our highest return investments in brand marketing support. We nearly doubled our digital marketing in the past year, including a program behind Grill Mates® in the U.S. that contributed to a 7% unit increase in 2011. We also increased support behind our Hispanic products in the U.S., which included television and a sampling program. This helped drive a 9% increase in sales of Hispanic products which exceeded $100 million for the first time in 2011.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Interest expense for 2011 was higher than the prior year. This was caused by higher average debt balances, due to our acquisitions in 2011 and a slightly higher weighted-average interest rate.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in the tax rate in 2011 was due to a lower level of net discrete tax benefits, decreased U.S. foreign tax credits in the current year as compared to the prior year, partially offset by a favorable mix of earnings among our different tax jurisdictions.  

Discrete tax benefits in 2011 were $0.8 million compared to $20.1 million in 2010. The $20.1 million in 2010 was mainly due to a $13.9 million reversal of a tax accrual for a closed tax year. This tax accrual was recorded in a prior period based on uncertainties about the tax aspects of transactions related to the reorganization of our European operations and divestment of certain of our joint ventures.  

In 2010, U.S. foreign tax credits included the impact of a $108.5 million repatriation of cash from foreign subsidiaries. Due to the mix of foreign earnings related to this cash, the repatriation generated additional tax credits.  

In addition, see note 11 of the financial statements for a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate with the effective tax rate.  

      2011   2010 

  Income from unconsolidated operations   $ 25.4    $25.5   

Income from unconsolidated operations decreased $0.1 million in 2011 compared to 2010. We increased income with our unconsolidated joint venture in India, Eastern Condiments, which was completed late in fiscal year 2010. This was offset  

13  

 by investment spending behind our new joint venture in Turkey and decreases in some of our smaller joint ventures. Our largest joint venture, McCormick de Mexico, had net income comparable to the prior year. While this business grew sales 12%, profits were pressured by higher soybean oil cost and a weakening Mexico peso in the fourth quarter of 2011. We expect this pressure on profits to continue into 2012.  

We own a 26% share in our Eastern Condiments joint venture and on average own 50% of our other unconsolidated joint ventures. In 2011, sales of these joint ventures grew 32% to $709 million (at 100% of these businesses) with many products marketed under the McCormick name. The new Eastern Condiments joint venture added 18%, while existing joint ventures increased sales by 14%.  

Our McCormick de Mexico joint venture represents 58% of the sales and 76% of the net income of our unconsolidated joint ventures.  

We reported earnings per share of $2.79 in 2011, compared to $2.75 in 2010. The following table outlines the major components of the change in diluted earnings per share from 2010 to 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consumer Business  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We grew consumer business sales 10.0% in 2011 when compared to 2010. Higher pricing added 5.1% and favorable foreign exchange rates added 1.8%. Volume and product mix rose 3.1%, which included a 2.6% increase from acquisitions in 2011.  

In the Americas, consumer business sales rose 8.2%, primarily as a result of pricing actions which added 6.0%. Our acquisition of Kitchen Basics® added 1.1% to sales, other increases in volume and product mix added 0.4% and favorable foreign exchange rates added 0.7%. Increased pricing unfavorably impacted volume and product mix during 2011. In addition, an estimated $10 million in sales shifted from the first quarter of 2011 into the fourth quarter of 2010, as a result of customer purchases in advance of a late 2010 price increase. However, the impact of these reductions to volume and product mix were more than offset by a favorable impact of product innovation, brand marketing support and expanded distribution. New products introduced in 2011 included new Recipe Inspirations®, grinders, Grill Mates and reduced sodium dry seasoning mixes. We had particular success with new Zatarain’s frozen entrees which helped contribute to a 40% increase in sales of Zatarain’s frozen products. A portion of our incremental brand marketing support was directed toward a new advertising campaign for dry seasoning mixes, a Hispanic marketing program that included sampling, and a digital marketing program behind Grill Mates which contributed to a 7% unit increase in Grill Mates sales. New distribution was gained for both brand and private label items in a variety of retail channels that included grocery, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and drug chains.  

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), consumer business sales increased 13.5%. Our acquisition of Kamis added 6.5% to sales, favorable foreign exchange rates added 4.2% and pricing actions added 2.8%. In our largest market, France, we achieved solid growth with higher pricing, which was slightly offset by lower volume and product mix. We introduced nearly 40 new products in this market, including an organic line of Ducros spices and herbs and a number of Vahiné dessert items, and gained new distribution with a large grocery retailer. A highly competitive retail environment in the U.K. made sales growth in this market a challenge, even with the introduction of new products and distribution gains into smaller store formats with a major customer. We have adapted to this environment by redirecting a portion of our brand marketing support to emphasize the value of our products, accelerating the introduction of new products and working to achieve secondary placement of our brand in retail stores. Export sales into developing markets contributed to growth  

14  

 in 2011 and we had improved results in smaller markets such as Spain and Portugal, which experienced significant declines in 2010.  

Consumer business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 22.5%. Favorable foreign exchange rates added 9.4% to sales, the impact of our new Kohinoor joint venture added 9.1% to sales, other increases in volume and product mix added 2.0% and pricing actions added 2.0%. Sales in China grew 10% in local currency during the year as a result of pricing actions, product introductions and new television advertising. Our business in Australia was unfavorably impacted by a challenging competitive environment, leading to a modest decline in 2011 sales when measured in local currency.  

Consumer business operating income increased $26.0 million to $428.4 million, a 6.5% increase from 2010. The profit impact of higher sales and CCI savings were offset in part by increased material costs. We also funded an increased investment in brand marketing support which rose $15 million in 2011, including a $4 million increase that related to acquisitions. While we expect the 2011 acquisitions to be accretive to 2012 operating income, profit from these businesses had a minimal impact on 2011 operating income during a period of integration. In 2011, we recorded $10.9 million of transaction costs related to acquisitions completed in 2011, which lowered operating income margin by 0.5%. Operating income margin was 19.5% in 2011 compared to 20.1% in 2010.  

Industrial Business  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales for the industrial business grew 11.9% from 2010, with higher volume and product mix adding 5.5% to sales. Pricing actions added 3.9% while favorable foreign exchange rates increased sales 2.5%.  

In the Americas, industrial business sales rose 10.2%, with a 4.7% increase from favorable volume and product mix, 4.5% from pricing actions and 1.0% from favorable foreign exchange rates. Strong sales to food manufacturers were driven in part by the development of new products and increased demand for snack seasonings and ingredients, particularly in the U.S. and Mexico.  

While sales to the foodservice industry were favorably impacted by product introductions, a number of our customers were impacted by the weak economy. Both food manufacturers and foodservice customers continue to have an interest in products that feature all natural ingredients, reduced sodium and other healthy attributes. These types of projects accounted for 40% of our product development activity in the U.S. during 2011.  

In EMEA, industrial business sales rose 12.3%, with a 5.8% increase from favorable volume and product mix, 2.9% from pricing actions and 3.6% from favorable foreign exchange rates. As in 2010, demand from quick service restaurants was high and continues to be the key sales driver in this region. We had particular strength in the sales of products that we manufacture in our facilities in the U.K., Turkey and South Africa for these customers, and supported their expansion in Russia and the Middle East.  

Industrial business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 22.0%. Favorable volume and product mix grew sales 10.7%, favorable foreign exchange rates added 9.0% and increased pricing actions added 2.3%. As in EMEA, sales to quick service restaurants were a source of strong growth in 2011. The rapid expansion of quick service restaurants in this region and our new product activity contributed to a 15% increase of industrial business sales in China when measured in local currency. We also supported the expansion of quick service restaurants into India, further adding to our sales growth in this region.  

Industrial business operating income increased $4.5 million to $111.9 million, a 4.2% increase from 2010. The profit impact of higher sales and CCI cost savings were offset in part by increased material costs and an investment in our branded foodservice business with $5 million of incremental marketing support. The net effect of these items, along with our sales mix of products  

15  

 during 2011, led to a decline in industrial business operating income margin to 7.5% from 8.0% in 2011. Since 2005 we have improved the operating income margin of this business and expect to achieve further improvements in margin in a less volatile input cost environment and as a result of our development of more value-added, higher margin new products.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS—2010 COMPARED TO 2009  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales for the fiscal year rose 4.5% from 2009 with strong growth in both the consumer and industrial businesses. New product introductions, brand marketing support and expanded distribution led to favorable volume and product mix, which combined, added 3.2% to sales. The impact of pricing was minimal in 2010, reducing sales 0.3%, while favorable foreign exchange rates increased sales 1.6%.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In 2010, gross profit increased 6.8% and gross profit margin rose 90 basis points. A significant part of this improvement was due to our CCI program which lowered costs $54 million in 2010 of which $45 million improved gross profit. In addition, the industrial business continued to shift its mix of business toward more higher margin, value-added products.  

Most raw and packaging material costs did not change significantly from 2009 through the first half of 2010. One exception was the lower cost of dairy ingredients which was passed through in lower pricing to industrial customers. In the second half of 2010, input costs began to increase and unfavorably impacted gross profit margin in the fourth quarter. Pricing actions were taken toward the end of the year and continued in 2011 to offset a portion of these increases.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Selling, general and administrative expenses in total dollars and as a percentage of net sales increased in 2010 compared to 2009. The increases were mainly driven by incremental brand marketing support to invest in the growth of our leading brands, as well as higher retirement benefit costs. SG&A in 2009 included $7.5 million of expenses related to the bankruptcy of a U.K. foodservice distributor.  

During 2010 we increased brand marketing support costs by $20.7 million or 14%. The increased funding supported the launch of Recipe Inspirations, Perfect Pinch® and other new products. We also drove sales with incremental spending behind our holiday cooking and baking advertising, support for the Zatarain’s brand and information regarding the antioxidant levels in many spices and herbs. The increase in retirement benefit costs was primarily due to changes in actuarial assumptions.  

In 2005, we announced a restructuring program to consolidate our global manufacturing, rationalize our distribution facilities, improve our go-to-market strategy and eliminate administrative redundancies. This restructuring program was completed in 2009. More details of the restructuring charges are discussed in note 10 of the financial statements.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Lower total average debt outstanding, coupled with lower short-term interest rates, led to a favorable variance in interest expense in 2010 when compared to 2009. In 2010, we completed the pay down of debt from the 2008 Lawry’s acquisition, primarily with cash generated from operations.  

16  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The decrease in the tax rate in 2010 was due to a higher level of net discrete tax benefits, increased U.S. foreign tax credits and a favorable mix of earnings among our different foreign tax jurisdictions.  

Discrete tax benefits in 2010 were $20.1 million compared to $3.6 million in 2009. The $20.1 million in 2010 is mainly due to a $13.9 million reversal of a tax accrual for a closed tax year. This tax accrual was recorded in a prior period based on uncertainties about the tax aspects of transactions related to the reorganization of our European operations and divestment of certain of our joint ventures.  

U.S. foreign tax credits increased as a result of a $108.5 million repatriation of cash from foreign subsidiaries in the fourth quarter of 2010. Due to the mix of foreign earnings related to this cash, the repatriation generated these tax credits.  

In addition, see note 11 of the financial statements for a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory tax rate with the effective tax rate.  

      2010   2009 

  Income from unconsolidated operations   $25.5    $16.3   

Income from unconsolidated operations increased $9.2 million in 2010 compared to 2009. This increase was mainly due to the performance of our McCormick de Mexico joint venture, which experienced a double-digit sales increase over the prior year. Also, this joint venture benefited from lower soybean oil costs and favorable foreign currency exchange rates for 2010 compared to 2009. Soybean oil is a main ingredient for mayonnaise, which is the leading product for this joint venture. In addition, our other smaller joint ventures experienced good growth in both sales and income in 2010.  

On average, in 2009 and 2010 we owned 50% of our unconsolidated joint ventures. These joint ventures had 2010 annual sales of $538 million (at 100% of these businesses) with many products marketed under the McCormick brand name. In 2010, sales by these joint ventures increased 12% and net income increased 49%.  

We reported earnings per share of $2.75 in 2010 compared to $2.27 in 2009. The following table outlines the major components of the change in diluted earnings per share from 2009 to 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consumer Business  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In our consumer business higher volume and product mix added 3.1% to sales, favorable foreign exchange rates increased sales 1.1% and higher pricing added 0.4% when compared to 2009.  

In the Americas, consumer business sales rose 5.9%, primarily as a result of higher volume and product mix which rose 4.1%. Foreign exchange rates in this region increased sales 1.1% and pricing added 0.7%. Recipe Inspirations, Perfect Pinch and other new product introductions contributed to this sales growth. We also increased brand marketing support to build consumer awareness and trial of these new products, as well as to support our broader line of spices and seasonings and other flavorful products. As a result, sales of gourmet items, grilling items, extracts, Lawry’s products and Zatarain’s products were particularly strong in 2010. Distribution gains added to sales including new placement in a warehouse club retail channel in the U.S. and new distribution of Billy Bee® honey products in Canada. In the fourth quarter of 2010, sales growth of our products in the U.S. exceeded the increase in consumer purchases at retail by  

17  

 approximately 2%. We believe that customer purchases in advance of a late 2010 price increase contributed to this difference. As a result, we estimate that $10 million of sales shifted from the first quarter of 2011 into the fourth quarter of 2010.  

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), consumer business sales declined 1.8%. Pricing decreased 1.0%, unfavorable foreign exchange rates reduced sales 0.5%, and unfavorable volume and product mix lowered sales 0.3%. Our largest markets, the U.K. and France, achieved an increase in volume and product mix with new products and marketing programs which supported products like Schwartz Flavourful seasoning mixes and Vahiné homemade dessert products. This growth was offset by declines in smaller markets, including Spain, Portugal, Italy, The Netherlands and Belgium, due in part to poor economies and competitive conditions in 2010. Consumer demand in these markets was weak, and retail customers lowered their inventory levels. In total, these smaller markets account for about 20% of EMEA sales.  

Consumer business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 17.2%. Foreign exchange rates were favorable, adding 9.0% to sales. Favorable volume and product mix grew sales 7.9% and pricing added 0.3%. In China, we grew sales at a double-digit pace with the introduction of new products such as Thai Chili Sauce which takes advantage of our leadership position in bottled condiments. Sales also rose as we expanded distribution of our products beyond modern grocery stores and into wet markets, also known as “street” markets, which are frequently shopped by many Chinese consumers. Sales in Australia also rose at a double-digit rate, but in local currency were close to 2009’s result.  

Consumer business operating income excluding restructuring charges increased 1.1% from 2009. The profit impact of higher sales and CCI cost savings, were largely offset by a $19 million increase in brand marketing support, as well as higher retirement benefit costs. Operating income margin was 20.1% in 2010. In the fourth quarter of 2010 there was a decline of operating income when compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, which was partially due to increasing commodity costs. We took pricing actions in late 2010 and early in fiscal year 2011 in response to these cost increases.  

Industrial Business  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales for the industrial business grew 4.4% from 2009 with higher volume and product mix adding 3.3% to sales. Favorable foreign exchange rates increased sales 2.5% and lower pricing reduced sales 1.4%.  

In the Americas, industrial business sales rose 1.8% with a 2.2% increase from favorable volume and product mix. This increase was primarily driven by increased demand by food manufacturers for new products in both the U.S. and Mexico. These customers were particularly interested in seasonings and other products with lower sodium, reduced fat content and simple ingredients. During 2010, sales to foodservice distributors, quick service restaurants and other foodservice customers were comparable to the prior year. The 2.2% increase in volume and product mix in 2010 was largely offset by the impact of reduced pricing as we passed through to our customers the lower cost of dairy ingredients. Foreign exchange rates in this region added 1.7% to sales.  

In EMEA, industrial business sales rose 7.9%, led by a 4.4% increase from favorable volume and product mix. Higher demand from quick service restaurants reflected increased consumer traffic and new product wins. Sales of branded foodservice products were higher compared to a weak performance in 2009 when sales were disrupted by the bankruptcy of a major foodservice distributor in the U.K. Favorable foreign exchange rates increased sales 3.0% and pricing added 0.5%.  

Industrial business sales in the Asia/Pacific region rose 16.2%. Favorable volume and product mix grew sales 9.3%. Quick service restaurants led the increase in this region driven by new store openings in China and new product  

18  

 introductions including beverage flavors and chicken marinades. Foreign exchange rates added 6.9% to the sales increase.  

Industrial business operating income, excluding restructuring charges increased 26.1% from 2009. Higher sales and a shift to more higher margin, value-added products increased profit, as well as the impact of CCI cost savings. Also, in 2009 we recorded $7.5 million of costs related to the foodservice distributor bankruptcy in the U.K. These increases more than offset the higher retirement benefit costs in 2010. Industrial business operating income margin excluding restructuring charges rose 130 basis points to 8.0%.  

NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES  

The tables below include financial measures of operating income and diluted earnings per share excluding restructuring charges in 2009 and the benefit of a significant tax accrual in 2010. There were no adjustments to 2011 financial results. These are all non-GAAP financial measures which are prepared as a complement to our financial results prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We believe this non-GAAP information is important for purposes of comparison to prior periods and development of future projections and earnings growth prospects. This information is also used by management to measure the profitability of our ongoing operations and analyze our business performance and trends. As of November 30, 2009 our restructuring program was completed.  

In 2010 our discrete tax benefits included a $13.9 million reversal of a tax accrual for a closed tax year. This tax accrual was recorded in a prior period based on uncertainties about the tax aspects of transactions related to the reorganization of our European operations and divestment of certain of our joint ventures. We are treating this $13.9 million discrete tax benefit as a non-GAAP adjustment to our diluted earnings per share. We are providing non-GAAP results that exclude the impact of this reversal as the item to which it relates was recorded as a restructuring charge, and it allows for a better comparison of 2010 financial results to the prior year and 2011.  

These non-GAAP measures may be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but they should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. We intend to continue to provide these non-GAAP financial measures as part of our future earnings discussions and, therefore, the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures will provide consistency in our financial reporting. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to GAAP financial results is provided below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We generate strong cash flow from operations which enables us to fund operating projects and investments that are designed to meet our growth objectives, make share repurchases when appropriate, increase our dividend and fund capital projects. In 2012 we expect to further pay down our debt incurred to fund 2011 acquisitions and resume our share repurchase activity in the absence of any acquisition activity.  

In the cash flow statement, the changes in operating assets and liabilities are presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, as these do not reflect actual cash flows. Accordingly, the amounts in the cash flow statement do not agree with changes in the operating assets and liabilities that are presented in the balance sheet.  

19  

The reported values of our assets and liabilities held in our non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates can be significantly affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between periods. At November 30, 2011, the exchange rates for the Euro, Australian dollar and British pound sterling were slightly higher versus the U.S. dollar compared to 2010. Exchange rate fluctuations resulted in increases to trade accounts receivable of $4 million, inventory of $3 million, goodwill of $19 million and other comprehensive income of $4 million since November 30, 2010.  

Operating Cash Flow– When 2011 is compared to 2010, the decrease in operating cash flow was driven by a higher level of inventory in 2011 as compared to last year. As we have moved into a higher cost environment, we have increased our strategic inventory positions in a number of spices and herbs, crops that do not have hedging options other than outright purchase. In addition to these higher levels of raw material, the cost of our raw material inventory has increased which increased the dollar value of our inventory. Acquisitions in 2011 have also added to a higher level of inventory. In summary, about one third of the inventory increase was due to strategic positions, one third due to the cost impact and about 15% related to acquisitions. These uses of operating cash were partially offset by a higher level of cash generated from improved net income in 2011. Our total pension contributions were $42.7 million in 2011 as compared to $49.5 million in 2010.  

When 2010 is compared to 2009, the decrease in operating cash flow was driven by increases in inventory and trade accounts receivable. These were partially offset by a higher level of cash generated from improved net income and lower pension contributions in 2010. Our total pension contributions were $49.5 million in 2010 as compared to $72.3 million in 2009.  

In addition to operating cash flow, we also use cash conversion cycle (CCC) to measure our working capital management. This metric is different than operating cash flow in that it uses average balances instead of specific point in time measures. CCC is a calculation of the number of days, on average, that it takes us to convert a cash outlay for resources, such as raw materials, to a cash inflow from collection of accounts receivable. Our goal is to lower our CCC over time. We calculate CCC as follows:  

Days sales outstanding (average trade accounts receivable divided by average daily net sales) plus days in inventory (average inventory divided by average daily cost of goods sold) less days payable outstanding (average trade accounts payable divided by average daily cost of goods sold plus the average daily change in inventory).  

The following table outlines our cash conversion cycle (in days) over the last three years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in CCC from 2010 to 2011 is largely due to an increase in our days in inventory. The decrease in CCC from 2009 to 2010 is mainly due to lower days sales outstanding. In the future we expect to reduce CCC by decreasing our days in inventory, as a result of a new inventory management system and related processes.  

Investing Cash Flow– The changes in cash used in investing activities from 2009 to 2011 were primarily due to fluctuations in cash used for acquisition of businesses and joint venture interests in 2011 and 2010 with no acquisitions in 2009. We invested $441.4 million and $46.9 million in acquisitions and joint venture interests in 2011 and 2010, respectively. See note 2 of the financial statements for further details of these acquisitions. Capital expenditures were $96.7 million in 2011, $89.0 million in 2010 and $82.4 million in 2009. We expect 2012 capital expenditures to be in line with depreciation and amortization expense.  

Financing Cash Flow– The change in cash flow used in financing activities in 2011 when compared to 2010 is primarily due to an increase in net borrowings. In 2011, we issued $250 million of 3.90% notes due 2021, with net cash proceeds received of $247.5 million. The net proceeds from this offering were used to fund in part  

20  

 our acquisition of Kamis. In 2011, we also increased our short-term borrowings by $216.7 million and repaid $100.0 million in long-term debt. In 2010 and 2009, we repaid borrowings of $114.0 million and $252.2 million, respectively. In 2010, we repaid short-term borrowings of $99.6 million and repaid $14.4 million in long-term debt. In 2009, we repaid $50.4 million of long-term debt as it became due and repaid short-term borrowings of $201.8 million.  

The following table outlines the activity in our share repurchase programs (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In June 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program to purchase up to $400 million of our outstanding shares. In September 2010, we completed a $400 million share repurchase program authorized by the Board in June 2005. As of November 30, 2011, $270 million remained of the new share repurchase program. There were no shares repurchased during 2009 as we were continuing to repay debt incurred with the Lawry’s and Billy Bee acquisitions.  

The common stock issued in 2011, 2010 and 2009 relates to our stock compensation plans.  

Our dividend history over the past three years is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In November 2011, the Board of Directors approved a 10.7% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.28 to $0.31 per share. During the past five years, dividends per share have risen at a compound annual rate of 9.1%.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The changes in the debt-to-capital ratio from 2009 to 2011 are mainly due to changes in our debt in conjunction with acquisition activity and subsequent pay downs of that debt. In 2008, we acquired Lawry’s and Billy Bee. During 2009 and 2010, the debt associated with these acquisitions was greatly reduced. In 2011, we increased our debt levels to help fund our Kamis, Kohinoor and Kitchen Basics acquisitions.  

Most of our cash is in our foreign subsidiaries. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by considering available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business and the cost effectiveness with which those funds can be accessed. The permanent repatriation of cash balances from certain of our subsidiaries could have adverse tax consequences; however, those balances are generally available without legal restrictions to fund ordinary business operations, capital projects and future acquisitions. At year-end, we temporarily used $138.6 million of cash from our foreign subsidiaries to pay down short-term debt in the U.S. The average short-term borrowings outstanding for the years ended November 30, 2011 and 2010 were $344.0 million and $376.3 million, respectively. The total average debt outstanding for the years ended November 30, 2011 and 2010 was $1,261.5 million and $1,237.2 million, respectively.  

In May and June 2011, we entered into a total of $200 million of forward U.S. Treasury rate lock agreements to manage the U.S. Treasury portion of our interest rate risk associated with the anticipated issuance of fixed rate notes in July 2011. We cash settled all of these agreements, which were designated as cash flow hedges, for a loss of $0.2 million simultaneous with the issuance of the notes at an all in effective fixed rate of 4.01% on the full $250 million of debt. The loss on these agreements is deferred in other comprehensive income and will be amortized to interest expense over the life of the notes. Hedge ineffectiveness of these agreements was not material. See notes 5 and 6 of the financial statements for further details of these transactions.  

Credit and Capital Markets– Credit market conditions were volatile during 2009 but improved in 2010. During 2011 several countries within the European Union experienced sovereign debt and credit  

21  

 issues. This has caused more volatility in the credit and economic environment throughout the European Union. The following summarizes the more significant impacts on our business:  

CREDIT FACILITIES– Cash flows from operating activities are our primary source of liquidity for funding growth, dividends and capital expenditures. In the second half of 2010 and in the first half of 2011, we also used this cash to make share repurchases. In 2009 and the first half of 2010, we used operating cash flow to pay down debt incurred in the Lawry’s acquisition and did not repurchase shares. In the second half of 2011, we used operating cash flow to help fund our 2011 acquisitions of Kamis, Kohinoor and Kitchen Basics. We also rely on our revolving credit facility, or borrowings backed by this facility, to fund seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate requirements. Our major revolving credit facility has a total committed capacity of $600 million, which expires in 2016. We generally use this facility to support our issuance of commercial paper. If the commercial paper market is not available or viable we could borrow directly under our revolving credit facility. The facility is made available by a syndicate of banks, with various commitments per bank. If any of the banks in this syndicate are unable to perform on their commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could reduce our ability to grow through funding of seasonal working capital. In addition to our committed revolving credit facility, we have uncommitted credit facilities for $54.6 million as of November 30, 2011. We engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our credit facility. During these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. In addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions and other aspects of the relationships. Based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe our banks will perform on their commitments. See also note 5 of the financial statements for more details on our financing arrangements. We believe that our internally generated funds and the existing sources of liquidity under our credit facilities are sufficient to fund ongoing operations.  

PENSION ASSETS– We hold investments in equity and debt securities in both our qualified defined benefit pension plans and through a rabbi trust for our nonqualified defined benefit pension plan. Cash payments to pension plans, including unfunded plans, were $42.7 million in 2011, $49.5 million in 2010 and $72.3 million in 2009. It is expected that the 2012 total pension plan contributions will be approximately $60 million. Future increases or decreases in pension liabilities and required cash contributions are highly dependent on changes in interest rates and the actual return on plan assets. We base our investment of plan assets, in part, on the duration of each plan’s liabilities. Across all plans, approximately 67% of assets are invested in equities, 28% in fixed income investments and 5% in other investments. See also note 8 of the financial statements which provides details on our pension funding.  

CUSTOMERS AND COUNTERPARTIES– See the subsequent section of this MD&A under Market Risk Sensitivity–Credit Risk.  

ACQUISITIONS  

Acquisitions are part of our strategy to increase sales and profits. We have a particular interest in emerging markets.  

In 2011, we purchased the assets of Kitchen Basics, Inc., based in the U.S., for $40 million and the shares of Kamis S.A., based in Poland for $287 million. Both deals are consumer businesses and were financed with a combination of cash and debt. We also completed a joint venture with Kohinoor Foods Ltd. In India. We invested $113 million for an 85% interest in Kohinoor Speciality Foods India Private Limited, financed with a combination of cash and debt. This joint venture will be consolidated and included in our consumer business segment.  

These three acquisitions added $52.6 million to sales and we recorded $10.9 million in transaction-related expenses in 2011. The impact on earnings per share, exclusive of the transaction- related expenses, was immaterial as profit from these three acquisitions was largely offset by costs to integrate these businesses. These acquisitions are expected to be accretive to earnings per share in 2012.  

22  

In 2010, we purchased a 26% non-controlling interest in Eastern Condiments Private Limited (Eastern), based in India, for $37.7 million in cash. We also purchased the assets of a consumer business in North America that sells Mexican food items for $11.5 million in cash.  

See note 2 of the financial statements for further details of these acquisitions.  

PERFORMANCE GRAPH—SHAREHOLDER RETURN  

Below is a line graph comparing the yearly change in McCormick’s cumulative total shareholder return (stock price appreciation plus reinvestment of dividends) on McCormick’s Non-Voting Common Stock with (1) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Price Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends, and (2) the cumulative total return of the Standard & Poor’s Packaged Foods & Meats Index, assuming reinvestment of dividends.  

MARKET RISK SENSITIVITY  

We utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including foreign exchange and interest rate exposures, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. We do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instrument. The use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. The information presented below should be read in conjunction with notes 5 and 6 of the financial statements.  

Foreign Exchange Risk– We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to U.S. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. Primary exposures include the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Polish zloty, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi, Indian rupee, Swiss franc, Thai baht and the British pound sterling versus the Euro. We routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to manage certain of these foreign currency risks.  

During 2011, the foreign currency translation component in other comprehensive income was principally related to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our net investments in France, the U.K., Canada and Australia. We did not hedge our net investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates.  

23  

The following table summarizes the foreign currency exchange contracts held at November 30, 2011. All contracts are valued in U.S. dollars using year-end 2011 exchange rates and have been designated as hedges of foreign currency transactional exposures, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.  

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE CONTRACTS AT NOVEMBER 30, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We have a number of smaller contracts with an aggregate notional value of $4.6 million to purchase or sell other currencies, such as the Swiss franc and the Singapore dollar as of November 30, 2011. The aggregate fair value of these contracts was $0.1 million at November 30, 2011.  

Included in the table above are $47.7 million notional value of contracts that have durations of less than 7 days that are used to hedge short-term cash flow funding. Remaining contracts have durations of one to twelve months.  

At November 30, 2010, we had foreign currency exchange contracts for the Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Thai baht with a notional value of $208.2 million, the majority of which matured in 2011. The aggregate fair value of these contracts was $(2.6) million at November 30, 2010.  

Interest Rate Risk– Our policy is to manage interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. We also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing costs and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. The table that follows provides principal cash flows and related interest rates, excluding the effect of interest rate swaps and the amortization of any discounts or fees, by fiscal year of maturity at November 30, 2011 and 2010. For foreign currency-denominated debt, the information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents. Variable interest rates are based on the weighted-average rates of the portfolio at the end of the year presented.  

24  

YEAR OF MATURITY AT NOVEMBER 30, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

YEAR OF MATURITY AT NOVEMBER 30, 2010  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The table above displays the debt by the terms of the original debt instrument without consideration of fair value, interest rate swaps and any loan discounts or origination fees. Interest rate swaps have the following effects. The fixed interest rate on $100 million of the 5.20% notes due in 2015 is effectively converted to a variable rate by interest rate swaps through 2015. Net interest payments are based on 3 month LIBOR minus 0.05% during this period. We issued $250 million of 5.75% notes due in 2017 in December 2007. Forward treasury lock agreements of $150 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 6.25%. We issued $250 million of 5.25% notes due in 2013 in September 2008. Forward treasury lock agreements of $100 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 5.54%. We issued $250 million of 3.90% notes due in 2021 in July 2011. Forward treasury lock agreements of $200 million were settled upon the issuance of these notes and effectively fixed the interest rate on the full $250 million of notes at a weighted-average fixed rate of 4.01%.  

Commodity Risk– We purchase certain raw materials which are subject to price volatility caused by weather, market conditions, growing and harvesting conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. Our most significant raw materials are dairy products, pepper, garlic, onion, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), soybean oil and wheat. While future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we respond to this volatility in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. We generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. To the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business.  

Credit Risk– The customers of our consumer business are predominantly food retailers and food wholesalers. Consolidations in these industries have created larger customers. In addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels including mass merchandisers, dollar stores, warehouse clubs and discount chains. This has caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. Some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. We continue to closely monitor the credit worthiness of our customers and counterparties. We feel that the allowance for doubtful accounts properly recognizes trade receivables at realizable value. We consider nonperformance credit risk for other financial instruments to be insignificant.  

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS  

The following table reflects a summary of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of November 30, 2011:  

CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS DUE BY YEAR  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

25  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a)  Raw material purchase obligations outstanding as of year-end may not be indicative of outstanding obligations throughout the year due to our response to varying raw material cycles.  

 (b)  Other purchase obligations primarily consist of advertising media commitments.  

In 2012, our pension and postretirement contributions are expected to be approximately $60 million. Pension and postretirement funding can vary significantly each year due to changes in legislation, our significant assumptions and investment return on plan assets. As a result, we have not presented pension and postretirement funding in the table above.  

COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS EXPIRATION BY YEAR  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

We had no off-balance sheet arrangements as of November 30, 2011 and 2010.  

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

New accounting pronouncements are issued periodically that affect our current and future operations. See note 1 of the financial statements for further details of these impacts.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS  

In preparing the financial statements, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that have an impact on the assets, liabilities, revenue and expense amounts reported. These estimates can also affect supplemental information disclosed by us, including information about contingencies, risk and financial condition. We believe, given current facts and circumstances, our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, adhere to U.S. GAAP and are consistently applied. Inherent in the nature of an estimate or assumption is the fact that actual results may differ from estimates, and estimates may vary as new facts and circumstances arise. In preparing the financial statements, we make routine estimates and judgments in determining the net realizable value of accounts receivable, inventory, fixed assets and prepaid allowances. Our most critical accounting estimates and assumptions are in the following areas:  

Customer Contracts  

In several of our major geographic markets, the consumer business sells our products by entering into annual or multi-year customer contracts. These contracts include provisions for items such as sales discounts, marketing allowances and performance incentives. These items are expensed based on certain estimated criteria such as sales volume of indirect customers, customers reaching anticipated volume thresholds and marketing spending. We routinely review these criteria and make adjustments as facts and circumstances change.  

Goodwill and Intangible Asset Valuation  

We review the carrying value of goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets and conduct tests of impairment on an annual basis as described below. We also test for impairment if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. We test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.  

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or an indefinite-lived purchased intangible asset is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows,  

26  

 risk-adjusted discount rates, assumed royalty rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates.  

Goodwill Impairment  

Our reporting units are the same as our operating segments. We calculate fair value of a reporting unit by using a discounted cash flow model. Our discounted cash flow model calculates fair value by present valuing future expected cash flows of our reporting units using our internal cost of capital as the discount rate. We then compare this fair value to the carrying amount of the reporting unit, including intangible assets and goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the calculated fair value, then we would determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. An impairment charge would be recognized to the extent the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value. As of November 30, 2011, we had $1,694.2 million of goodwill recorded in our balance sheet ($1,550.7 million in the consumer segment and $143.5 million in the industrial segment). Our testing indicates that the current fair values of our reporting units are significantly in excess of carrying values. Accordingly we believe that only significant changes in the cash flow assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill.  

Indefinite-lived Intangible Asset Impairment  

Our indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of brand names and trademarks. We calculate fair value by using a discounted cash flow model or relief-from-royalty method and then compare that to the carrying amount of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. As of November 30, 2011, we had $277.0 million of brand name assets and trademarks recorded in our balance sheet and none of the balances exceed their estimated fair values. We intend to continue to support our brand names.  

Below is a table which outlines the book value of our major brand names and trademarks as of November 30, 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

*Based on preliminary purchase price allocations at November 30, 2011.  

Income Taxes  

We estimate income taxes and file tax returns in each of the taxing jurisdictions in which we operate and are required to file a tax return. At the end of each year, an estimate for income taxes is recorded in the financial statements. Tax returns are generally filed in the third or fourth quarter of the subsequent year. A reconciliation of the estimate to the final tax return is done at that time which will result in changes to the original estimate. Income tax expense for 2011 includes $2.6 million of adjustments from the reconciliation of prior year tax estimates to actual tax filings. We believe that our tax return positions are fully supported, but tax authorities are likely to challenge certain positions. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions in accordance with the U.S. GAAP guidance for uncertainty in income taxes. We believe that our reserve for uncertain tax positions, including related interest, is adequate. The amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. Management has recorded valuation allowances to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In doing so, management has considered future taxable income and tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. Both future taxable income and tax planning strategies include a number of estimates.  

27  

Pension and Postretirement Benefits  

Pension and other postretirement plans’ costs require the use of assumptions for discount rates, investment returns, projected salary increases, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. The actuarial assumptions used in our pension and postretirement benefit reporting are reviewed annually and compared with external benchmarks to ensure that they appropriately account for our future pension and postretirement benefit obligations. While we believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences between assumed and actual experience may affect our operating results. A 1% increase or decrease in the actuarial assumption for the discount rate would impact 2012 pension and postretirement benefit expense by approximately $16 million. A 1% increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would impact 2012 pension expense by approximately $7 million. In addition, see the preceding sections of MD&A and note 8 of the financial statements for a discussion of these assumptions and the effects on the financial statements.  

Stock-Based Compensation  

We estimate the fair value of our stock-based compensation using fair value pricing models which require the use of significant assumptions for expected volatility of stock, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. Our valuation methodology and significant assumptions used are disclosed in note 9 of the financial statements.  

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK