PART I   

  Item 1. Business.       

General 

The company was originally organized as Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of California. In 1986, the company reorganized as Caterpillar Inc. in the State of Delaware. As used herein, the term “Caterpillar,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or “the company” refers to Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries unless designated or identified otherwise. 

Principal Lines of Business / Nature of Operations 

We operate in three principal lines of business: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Due to financial information required by accounting guidance on segment reporting, we have also divided our business into 11 reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Information about our reportable segments, including geographic information, appears in Note 24 – “Segment information” of Exhibit 13. 

Other information about our operations in 2009 and our outlook for 2010, including certain risks associated with foreign operations, is incorporated by reference from “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of Exhibit 13. 

Company Strengths  

Caterpillar is the leader in construction and mining equipment, and diesel and natural gas engines and industrial gas turbines in our size range. The company is also a leading services provider through Cat Financial, Caterpillar Logistics Services Inc. (Cat Logistics), Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services and Progress Rail Services Corporation (Progress Rail). Annual sales and revenues were $32.396 billion in 2009, making Caterpillar the largest manufacturer in its industry. Caterpillar is also a leading U.S. exporter. Through direct sales of certain products and a global network of independent dealers, Caterpillar builds long-term relationships with customers around the world. For almost 85 years, the Caterpillar name has been associated with the highest level of quality products and services. More information is available at www.CAT.com. 

Page 1  

Competitive Environment 

Caterpillar products and product support services are sold worldwide into a variety of highly competitive markets. In all markets, we compete on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price. From time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a particular industry or region. Such price discounting puts pressure on margins and can negatively impact operating profit. 

Outside of the United States, certain competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to operating in their home countries or regions. 

   Machinery    

The competitive environment for Caterpillar’s machinery business consists of some global competitors and many regional and specialized local competitors. Examples of global competitors include, but are not limited to, Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of the Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Deere & Co., Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., Terex Corporation, J.C. Bamford Ltd. (JCB) and Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. Each of these companies have varying numbers of product lines that compete with Caterpillar products and each have varying degrees of regional focus. John Deere Construction and Forestry Division (part of Deere & Co.), for example, has numerous product lines that compete with Caterpillar primarily in North America and Latin America. Others, like JCB, offer a limited range of products that compete globally against Caterpillar. 

The world economy experienced its worst postwar recession in 2009, causing construction spending to decline in many countries and mining companies to reduce production. End users significantly reduced purchases of equipment and dealers reduced their reported inventories by over $3.3 billion. As a result, machinery sales volume declined at an unprecedented rate. Governments responded with large infrastructure programs and central banks reduced interest rates to record lows. As a result, the world economy began recovering in the third quarter of 2009 and the year-on-year decline in sales volume in the fourth quarter was less than in the prior two quarters. 

Caterpillar’s logistics business provides integrated supply chain services for Caterpillar and 50 other companies worldwide. It competes with global, regional and local competitors, including companies such as DHL International, CEVA and United Parcel Service, Inc. The unit has grown signifcantly since its inception in 1987. 

Since its acquisition by Caterpillar in June 2006, wholly owned subsidiary Progress Rail has continued its position in North America as a leading provider of a broad range of products. Based in Albertville, Alabama, Progress Rail is a leading provider of remanufactured locomotive, railcar and track products and services to the North American railroad industry. The company also has one of the most extensive rail service and supply networks in North America. Expansion into the railroad aftermarket business is a good fit with our strategic direction and leverages Caterpillar’s global remanufacturing capabilities. 

   Engines    

Caterpillar operates in a very competitive engine/turbine manufacturing and packaging environment. The company designs, manufactures, markets and sells diesel, heavy fuel and natural gas reciprocating engines for Caterpillar machinery, electric power generation systems, locomotives, marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications. In addition, Caterpillar provides industrial turbines and turbine related services for oil and gas and power generation applications. 

Page 2 

The competitive environment for reciprocating engines in marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agriculture and electric power generation systems along with turbines consists of a few global competitors who compete in a variety of markets that Caterpillar serves, and a larger set of companies who compete in a limited size range and/or application. Principal global competitors include, but are not limited to, Cummins Inc., MTU Friedrichshafen and MTU Detroit Diesel (both are Tognum Group companies), GE Energy Infrastructure, Siemens Energy and Wartsila Corp. Other competitors, such as John Deere Power Systems, MAN Diesel SE, MAN Turbo, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., Volvo Penta (part of Volvo Group AB), Kawasaki Heavy Industries and Rolls Royce Group plc compete in certain markets in which Caterpillar competes. An additional set of competitors, including Generac Power Systems, Inc., Kohler Co., and others, are packagers who source engines and/or other components from domestic and international suppliers and market products regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution channels. 

As previously announced, Caterpillar no longer provides new engines to truck and other on-highway original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Caterpillar will continue to service our previous on-highway engine customers through Caterpillar and truck OEM dealer channels. 

Since the introduction of Caterpillar’s ACERT® Technology in 2003, Caterpillar has continued to focus investment and resources on leveraging this technology. The building blocks for ACERT Technology are flexible and scalable and are being applied as needed based on engine platform and application. Caterpillar will add several new technologies to our portfolio of ACERT Technologies to meet upcoming Tier 4 Interim/Stage IIIB non-road emissions regulations. We believe ACERT provides Caterpillar with a valuable foundation to meet emissions and performance requirements. 

Caterpillar’s remanufacturing business provides services for a variety of products and services to Caterpillar and other external clients. The remanufacturing business competes on a regional basis with similarly sized or smaller companies. The company launched the remanufacturing business in the 1970s with engines/turbines and is now one of the world’s largest remanufacturers, processing more than two million units annually and recycling more than 140 million pounds of remanufactured products each year. The business continues to grow at rates well above that of the global economy as a whole. 

 Financial Products     

Our financial products business is primarily conducted by Cat Financial. Cat Financial, incorporated in Delaware, is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Caterpillar. Cat Financial’s primary business is to provide retail and wholesale financing alternatives for Caterpillar products to customers around the world. Retail financing is primarily comprised of financing of Caterpillar equipment, machinery and engines. In addition, Cat Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products. In addition to retail financing, Cat Financial provides wholesale financing to Caterpillar dealers and purchases short-term dealer receivables from Caterpillar and its subsidiaries. The various financing plans offered by Cat Financial are designed to increase the opportunity for sales of Caterpillar products and generate financing income for Cat Financial. A significant portion of Cat Financial’s activities is conducted in North America. However, Cat Financial has additional offices and subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Europe and Latin America. 

For over 25 years, Cat Financial has been providing financing in the various markets in which it participates, contributing to its knowledge of asset values, industry trends, product structuring and customer needs. 

In certain instances, Cat Financial’s operations are subject to supervision and regulation by state, federal and various foreign governmental authorities, and may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate credit granting activities and the administration of loans, (ii) establish maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require disclosures to customers and investors, (iv) govern secured transactions, (v) set collection, foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use and reporting of information related to a borrower’s credit experience. Cat Financial’s ability to comply with these governmental and legal requirements and restrictions affects its operations. 

Cat Financial’s retail leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 60 percent*) include: 

      ·   Tax leases that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of the lease. For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner of the equipment (18 percent*).    

Page 3 

      ·   Finance (non-tax) leases, where the lessee for tax purposes is considered to be the owner of the equipment during the term of the lease, that either require or allow the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed price at the end of the term (22 percent*).    

      ·   Installment sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to purchase equipment with a down payment or trade-in and structure payments over time (19 percent*).    

      ·   Governmental lease-purchase plans in the U.S. that offer low interest rates and flexible terms to qualified non-federal government agencies (1 percent*).    

Cat Financial’s wholesale notes receivable, finance leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 8 percent*) include: 

      ·   Inventory/rental programs, which provide assistance to dealers by financing their new Caterpillar inventory and rental fleets (4 percent*).    

      ·   Short-term dealer receivables we purchase from Caterpillar at a discount (4 percent*).     

Cat Financial’s retail notes receivables (32 percent*) include: 

      ·   Loans that allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment as collateral to obtain financing.    

The retail financing business is highly competitive, with financing for users of Caterpillar equipment available through a variety of sources, principally commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. Cat Financial’s competitors include Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Inc., General Electric Capital Corporation and various local banks and finance companies. In addition, many of our manufacturing competitors own financial subsidiaries such as Volvo Financial Services, Komatsu Financial L.P. and John Deere Credit Corporation that utilize below-market interest rate programs (subsidized by the manufacturer) to assist machine sales. Caterpillar and Cat Financial work together to provide a broad array of financial merchandising programs around the world to meet these competitive offers. 

Cat Financial’s financial results are largely dependent upon the ability of Caterpillar dealers to sell equipment and customers’ willingness to enter into financing or leasing agreements. It is also affected by, among other things, the availability of funds from its financing sources, general economic conditions such as inflation and market interest rates and its cost of funds relative to its competitors. 

Cat Financial has a “match funding” policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed rate or floating rate) of its debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of its receivables portfolio (loans and leases with customers and dealers) within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis. In connection with that policy, Cat Financial issues debt with a similar interest rate profile to its receivables, and also uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some cases to lower its cost of borrowed funds. For more information regarding match funding, please see Note 3 “Derivative financial instruments and risk management” of Exhibit 13. See also the risk factor titled “Risks to Financial Products Line of Business” for general risk associated with our financial products business included in

 Item 1A. of this Form 10-K. 

In managing foreign currency risk for Cat Financial’s operations, the objective is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions. This policy allows the use of foreign currency forward and option contracts to address the risk of currency mismatch between the receivable and debt portfolios. None of these foreign currency forward and option contracts are designated as a hedge. 

__________ 

*Indicates the percentage of Cat Financial’s total portfolio at December 31, 2009. We define total portfolio as total finance receivables (net of unearned income and allowance for credit losses) plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation. For more information on the above and Cat Financial’s concentration of credit risk, please refer to Note 8 – “Finance receivables” of Exhibit 13. 

Page 4 

Cat Financial provides financing only when certain criteria are met. Credit decisions are based on, among other factors, the customer’s credit history, financial strength and equipment application. Cat Financial typically maintains a security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical damage insurance coverage on financed equipment. Cat Financial finances a significant portion of Caterpillar dealers’ sales and inventory of Caterpillar equipment throughout the world. Cat Financial’s competitive position is improved by marketing programs offered in conjunction with Caterpillar and/or Caterpillar dealers. Under these programs, Caterpillar, or the dealer, subsidizes an amount at the outset of the transaction, which Cat Financial then recognizes as revenue over the term of the financing. These marketing programs provide Cat Financial with a significant competitive advantage in financing Caterpillar products. Transaction processing time and supporting technologies continue to drive Cat Financial in its efforts to respond quickly to customers and improve internal processing efficiencies. We believe Cat Financial’s web-based Cat FinancExpressSM transaction processing and information tool currently available in the United States, France, Canada and Australia provides Cat Financial a competitive advantage in those areas. Cat FinancExpressSM is a web-based tool that provides finance quotes, credit decisions and the ability to print the appropriate financial documents for end-user signature, all within a reasonably short time frame. 

Caterpillar Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance. Caterpillar Insurance Company is licensed to conduct property and casualty insurance business in 49 states and the District of Columbia and, as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and monitors Caterpillar Insurance Company’s financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Caterpillar Insurance Company is also licensed to conduct insurance business through a branch in Zurich, Switzerland and, as such, is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority. 

Caterpillar Life Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance. Caterpillar Life Insurance Company is licensed to conduct life and accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the District of Columbia and, as such, is regulated in those jurisdictions as well. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Caterpillar Life Insurance Company also provides stop loss insurance protection to a Missouri Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust used to fund medical claims of salaried retirees of Caterpillar under the VEBA. 

Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a captive insurance company domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. is a Class 2 insurer (as defined by the Bermuda Insurance Amendment Act of 1995), which primarily insures affiliates and, as such, the Bermuda Monetary Authority requires an Annual Financial Filing for purposes of monitoring compliance with solvency requirements. 

Caterpillar Product Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty company domiciled in Missouri. It conducts a machine extended service contract program in Germany by providing machine extended warranty reimbursement protection to dealers in Germany. 

Caterpillar Insurance Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Cat Insurance, is a Tennessee insurance brokerage company licensed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. It provides brokerage services for all property and casualty and life and health lines of business. 

Caterpillar’s insurance group provides protection for claims under the following programs: 

      ·   Contractual Liability Insurance to Caterpillar, Caterpillar S.A.R.L and affiliates, Caterpillar dealers and OEMs for extended service contracts (parts and labor) offered by third party dealers and OEMs.    

      ·   Cargo insurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar products.    

      ·   Contractors’ Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by Caterpillar or OEMs, which is leased, rented or sold by third party dealers to customers.    

      ·   General liability, employer’s liability, auto liability and property insurance for Caterpillar.    

Page 5  

      ·   Retiree Medical Stop Loss Insurance for medical claims under the VEBA.    

      ·   Brokerage services for property and casualty and life and health business.    

Business Developments in 2009 

Economic and Market Conditions 

Our business, results of operations and financial condition were materially affected by the conditions in the global economy during 2009. The continuing global economic crisis and the volatility in the credit and capital markets had a significant impact on our 2009 sales and revenues and profitability. Overall, the company’s sales and revenues decreased 37 percent from 2008, and profit in 2009 was down 75 percent from 2008. 

In response to the on-going recession in 2009, we continued executing our “trough” plans, which we had commenced implementing in 2008, and taking other actions to deal with the effects of the recession and to reduce costs. These actions resulted in full-year redundancy costs of $0.75 per share. In addition, we focused on maintaining solid profitability and cash flow and improving our balance sheet. These efforts contributed to our ability to maintain our credit ratings, maintain our dividend rate, make pension contributions and continue selective investment in new products and capacity. 

During the second half of 2009, market conditions in developing economies showed signs of improvement; the more developed economies also showed signs of improvement but at a slower pace. Many countries responded to the recession by adopting various forms of economic stimulus packages, including allocations for infrastructure spending, a positive factor for sales of our Machinery and Engines. However, the economic recovery remained uneven at the end of 2009 and beginning of 2010. 

Financial Results and Stockholder Value 

Full year 2009 results marked a significant decline in sales and revenues and profit for Caterpillar. The company realized 2009 sales and revenues of $32.396 billion and profit of $895 million. Our profit per share in 2009 was $1.43 including redundancy costs of $0.75 per share. In spite of the severe economic conditions, we improved our balance sheet and maintained our dividend rate. The company has not resumed its stock repurchase program since temporarily suspending it on January 26, 2009. 

Sustainability 

In 2009, the company continued its efforts in sustainable development and its commitment to make sustainable development a “strategic area of improvement” in our enterprise strategy. The company was selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) for the ninth consecutive year and has retained its Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) Gold Class position in the Industrial Engineering sector. DJSI World uses a best-in-class approach designed to identify best practices across the economic, social and environmental dimensions of corporate sustainability. 

Caterpillar Production System (CPS) 

We have continued our focus on deploying CPS with 6 Sigma. Through the implementation of CPS, we have made continued progress on our safety and quality goals, reduced inventory and improved cost performance. CPS continues to be a fundamental component to help us achieve our near-term goals and our Vision 2020. 

Growth Initiatives 

In 2009, the company made selective investments in growth and expansion opportunities as we focused on positioning ourselves for economic recovery. In spite of the challenging economic conditions, we made progress toward our goals of expanding our business in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and other emerging markets and moving towards achieving market leadership positions. In support of our overall enterprise strategy and Vision 2020, Caterpillar took the following actions during 2009: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Page 6  

      ·   In September 2009, NC2 and Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co. Ltd. (Jianghuai) signed a framework agreement to potentially establish a joint venture in the PRC that would develop, manufacture and sell trucks and truck parts primarily in the PRC and certain export markets. Jianghuai is a manufacturer of automobiles and trucks and related parts based in Anhui Province, PRC. The framework agreement contemplates finalizing a joint venture by mid-2010.    

      ·   In November 2009, Caterpillar entered into an agreement to acquire JCS Co. Ltd. (JCS), a subsidiary of Jinsung T.E.C. Co., Ltd., a South Korea-based manufacturer that specializes in producing undercarriage components for earthmoving and other off-road machinery. The acquisition of JCS will provide Caterpillar proprietary technology to produce engineered seals for undercarriages. The JCS manufacturing facility is the first factory for Caterpillar in South Korea. The acquisition, subject to regulatory approval, is expected to be finalized in early 2010.    

      ·   In December 2009, Caterpillar opened the Wuxi multi-functional research and development center in Wuxi, located in Jiangsu Province, PRC. The facility was announced in August 2008 to increase technical support for products serving markets in the PRC and the rest of the Asia Pacific Region. The Wuxi facility also performs engine and component product and process development, validation, localization and technological training. Among its many functions, the new facility will have an engine test facility with performance and emissions development capability, an advanced materials laboratory, an electronics laboratory, a system and machine integration facility and validation capability. The Wuxi facility is strategically located near Caterpillar’s component manufacturing facility and its engine campus. It is also near the medium wheel loader and motor grader manufacturing facility in Suzhou, PRC.    

      ·   In December 2009, Caterpillar signed a joint venture agreement with China Yuchai Machinery Co. Ltd. through its main operating subsidiary, Guangxi Yuchai Machinery Co. Ltd. (Yuchai) to establish a company to provide remanufacturing services for Yuchai diesel engines and components and certain Caterpillar diesel engines and components. The new company will provide remanufactured engines and components to customers worldwide. Yuchai is a key diesel engine manufacturer and the largest producer of internal combustion engines in the PRC. Its engine product line family includes mini, light, medium and heavy-duty engines for the truck, commercial bus, generator and passenger car markets. This joint venture, once approved by the applicable regulatory authority, will be the first remanufacturing joint venture for Caterpillar in the PRC.    

Other 2009 Developments 

      ·   In December 2009, Caterpillar, through its wholly owned subsidiary Cat Logistics, announced plans to open a new parts distribution center in Clayton, Ohio. The new facility will extend more than 1,000,000 square feet and is part of the multi-year expansion and enhancement of the North American Cat Parts distribution network. The new facility will provide inbound receiving capability close to suppliers and align outbound shipments to improve delivery to dealers and customers. It is expected to be fully operational in 2011 and is expected to employ 500 to 600 people.    

      ·   In June 2008, Caterpillar announced a multi-year $1 billion capacity expansion for key facilities in Illinois and other areas. This included planned investments of more than $1 billion from 2008 through 2010 in five of our existing facilities in Illinois (East Peoria, Joliet, Decatur, Aurora and Mossville). Through 2009, we have invested about two-thirds of this planned $1 billion in those five facilities. In addition, during this period we have also made significant capital investments at other Illinois facilities.    

Business Combinations 

Information related to acquisitions and alliances appears in Note 25 – “Business combinations and alliances” of Exhibit 13. 

Page 7  

Raw Materials and Component Products 

We source our raw materials and manufactured components from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. These purchases include unformed materials, rough and finished parts. Unformed materials include a variety of steel products which are then cut or formed to shape and machined in our facilities. Rough parts include various sized steel and iron castings and forgings which are machined to final specification levels inside our facilities. Finished parts are ready to assemble components which are made to either Caterpillar specifications or to the supplier developed specifications. We machine and assemble some of the components used in our machines, engines and power generation units and to support our after-market dealer parts sales. We also purchase various goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and product development processes. We maintain global strategic sourcing models to meet our global facilities’ production needs while building long-term supplier relationships and leveraging enterprise spend. We expect our suppliers to maintain, at all times, industry-leading levels of quality and the ability to timely deliver raw materials and component products for our machine and engine products. We use a variety of agreements with suppliers to protect our intellectual property and processes to monitor and mitigate risks of the supply base causing a business disruption. The risks monitored include supplier financial viability, the ability to increase or decrease production levels, business continuity, quality and delivery. 

Order Backlog 

Much of our backlog is in large engines, gas turbines and mining products. The dollar amount of backlog believed to be firm was approximately $9.6 billion at December 31, 2009, $14.7 billion at December 31, 2008 and $17.8 billion at December 31, 2007. Of the total backlog, approximately $2.5 billion at December 31, 2009, $2.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2007, was not expected to be filled in the following year. The decrease during 2009 reflects the impact of weak global economic conditions and our decision, beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2009, to allow dealers to cancel orders. Our backlog is generally highest in the first and second quarters because of seasonal buying trends in our industry. 

Dealers 

Our machines are distributed principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network), 51 located in the United States and 127 located outside the United States, serving 182 countries and operating 3,518 places of business, including dealer rental outlets. Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in their products. Some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins Engines Company Limited (Perkins) are also sold through its worldwide network of 129 distributors located in 165 countries. Most of the electric power generation systems manufactured by F.G. Wilson Engineering Limited (FG Wilson) are sold through its worldwide network of 157 dealers located in 180 countries. Some of the large, medium speed reciprocating engines are also sold under the MaK brand through a worldwide network of 19 dealers located in 130 countries. 

Our dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers’ principal business. Turbines are sold through sales forces employed by the company. At times, these employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 

The company’s relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in a standard sales and service agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, the company grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and to service the products in a specified geographic service territory. Prices to dealers are established by the company after receiving input from dealers on transactional pricing in the marketplace. The company also agrees to defend its intellectual property and to provide warranty and technical support to the dealer. The agreement further grants the dealer a non-exclusive license to use the company’s trademarks, service marks and brand names. In some instances a separate trademark agreement exists between the company and a dealer. 

In exchange for these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale of the company’s products to current and prospective customers in the dealer’s service territory. Each dealer specifically agrees to employ adequate sales and support personnel to market, sell and promote the company’s products, demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company’s product improvement programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe operation of any of the company’s products and maintain detailed books and records of the dealer’s financial condition, sales and inventories and make these books and records available at the company’s reasonable request. 

Page 8  

These sales and service agreements are terminable at will by either party upon 90 days written notice and provide for termination automatically if the dealer files for bankruptcy protection or upon the occurrence of comparable action seeking protection from creditors. 

Patents and Trademarks  

Our products are sold primarily under the brands “Caterpillar,” “CAT,” design versions of “CAT” and “Caterpillar,” “Solar Turbines,” “MaK,” “Perkins,” “FG Wilson,” “Olympian” and “Progress Rail.” We own a number of patents and trademarks, which have been obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we manufacture and the services we provide. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the future. We do not regard any of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. 

Research and Development 

We have always placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to the development of new or improved machines, engines and major components. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, we spent $1,421 million, $1,728 million and $1,404 million, or 4.4 percent, 3.4 percent and 3.1 percent of our sales and revenues, respectively, on our research and development programs. R&D expense is expected to increase about 20 percent in 2010, primarily to support product development programs related to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Tier 4 emissions requirements. 

Employment 

As of December 31, 2009, we employed 93,813 persons of whom 50,562 were located outside the United States. From a global enterprise perspective, we believe our relationship with our employees is very good. We build and maintain a productive, motivated workforce by striving to treat all employees fairly and equitably. 

In the United States, most of our 43,251 employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of employment contract or agreement. At select business units, certain highly specialized employees have been hired under employment contracts that specify a term of employment and specify pay and other benefits. 

As of December 31, 2009, there were 9,728 U.S. hourly production employees who were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. The United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents 7,570 Caterpillar employees under a six-year central labor agreement that will expire March 1, 2011. The International Association of Machinists represents 1,627 employees under labor agreements that expire on May 23, 2010 and April 30, 2012. 

Outside the United States, the company enters into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. 

Sales 

Sales outside the United States were 69 percent of consolidated sales for 2009, 67 percent for 2008 and 63 percent for 2007. 

Environmental Matters 

The company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or global competitive position. 

We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws. When it is reasonably probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against our earnings. In formulating that estimate, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or others. The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in the line item “Accrued expenses” in Statement 2 – “Consolidated Financial Position at December 31” of Exhibit 13. 

Page 9  

We cannot reasonably estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of remediation. Currently, we have a few sites in the very early stages of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all sites in the aggregate, will be required. 

Available Information 

The company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and any other form or report as required. The public may read and copy any materials the company has filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The company maintains an Internet site (www.CAT.com) and copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge through our Internet site (www.CAT.com/secfilings) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Copies of our board committee charters, our board’s Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct and other corporate governance information are available on our Internet site (www.CAT.com/governance). The information contained on the company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Additional company information may be obtained as follows: 

Current information -  

      ·   

phone our Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080 (outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen to a summary of Caterpillar’s latest financial results and current outlook, or to request a copy of results by facsimile or mail 

      ·   request, view, or download materials on-line or register for email alerts at www.CAT.com/materialsrequest    

 Historical information -  

      ·   view/download on-line at www.CAT.com/historical    

  Item 1A. Risk Factors.