Item 1A. Risk Factors.      

The statements in this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The discussion and analysis contained in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and other items in this Form 10-K is forward-looking and involves uncertainties that could significantly impact results. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we issue to the public or in the form of oral presentations to the public. Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events about the company. You can identify these statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or current facts and by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “will be,” “should,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “could” and similar words or expressions that identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. 

In particular, these forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, prospective products, products’ approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, economic conditions, potential returns, financial condition and financial results. The statements are based on assumptions or on known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Although we believe we have been prudent in our assumptions, we cannot guarantee the realization of these statements. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/or those anticipated, estimated or projected. Uncertainties include factors that affect international businesses, as well as matters specific to the company and the markets it serves. 

Page 10  

The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You may, however, consult any future related disclosures we make on our Form 10-Q or any Form 8-K report to the SEC. 

The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from expected or past results. You should note it is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties. 

Economic Volatility, Global Economic Conditions and the Economic Conditions of Industries or Markets We Serve 

Our results of operations are materially affected by the conditions in the global economy generally and various capital markets. Global economic conditions may cause volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. In some cases, the markets have decreased availability of liquidity, credit and credit capacity for certain issuers, customers, dealers and suppliers. 

Although we generally generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses, fund our capital expenditures, buy back stock, pay dividends and fund our employee retirement benefit programs, continuing to meet these cash requirements over the long-term will require substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds, including capital and credit markets. Changes in global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity in many of the markets that we serve, and the success of plans to manage cost increases, inventory and other important elements of our business may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from operations. Market volatility, changes in counterparty credit risk, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and general economic conditions may also adversely impact the ability of the company to access capital and credit markets to fund operating needs. Inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 

The energy and mining industries are major users of our machines and engines. Decisions to purchase our machines and engines are dependent upon performance of these industries. If demand or output in these industries increases, the demand for our products would likely increase. Likewise, if demand or output in these industries declines, the demand for our products would likely decrease. Prices of commodities in these industries are frequently volatile and change in response to general economic conditions, economic growth, commodity inventories and any disruptions in production. We assume certain prices for key commodities in preparing our outlooks. Commodity prices lower than those assumed in our outlooks have the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

The rates of infrastructure spending, housing starts and commercial construction play a significant role in our results. Our products are an integral component of these activities, and as these activities increase or decrease inside or outside of the U.S., demand for our products may be significantly impacted, which could negatively impact our results. 

After declining for three years, U.S. residential housing starts began a modest recovery in the second quarter of 2009, but remain at historic lows. Housing permits in the euro-zone have continued to decline since late 2006, although U.K. housing orders increased in the fourth quarter of 2009. The situation has been compounded by a deterioration of mortgage and financial markets and has negatively impacted our sales in North America and Europe. Historically, housing starts have been volatile, and these downturns could continue or become more severe. Although the U.S. Government, and governments of many other countries, including countries in Europe, Japan and Australia, has adopted initiatives to help restore and stabilize mortgage and real estate markets and the economy generally, there is no assurance that these measures will achieve the intended effect. 

We expect that the developing markets (i.e. Africa, Asia/Pacific, Latin America, the Middle East and Russia), which accounted for a significant portion of our 2009 sales and revenues will experience growth during 2010. However, a slower rate of economic growth in developing markets than anticipated in our outlooks could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Page 11  

Changes in Government Monetary and Fiscal Policies  

Most countries have established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic activities, generally by adjusting interest rates. Interest rate changes affect overall economic growth, which alter demand for residential and nonresidential structures, energy and mined products, which in turn affect sales of our products that serve these activities. Also, interest rates affect customers’ abilities to finance machine purchases, can change the optimal time to keep machines in a fleet and can impact the ability of our suppliers to finance the production of parts and components necessary to manufacture and support our products. Our outlooks typically include assumptions about interest rates in a number of countries. Interest rates higher than those contained in our assumptions could result in lower sales than anticipated and supply chain inefficiencies. 

Economic events have reduced the availability of liquidity to fund investments in many markets that we serve. Central banks and other policy arms of many countries have implemented various actions to restore liquidity and increase the availability of credit. The continuing effectiveness of these and related government actions is uncertain and could have a material impact on the customers and markets we serve and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Government policies on taxes and spending affect our business. Throughout the world, government spending finances much infrastructure development, such as highways, airports, sewer and water systems and dams. Tax regulations determine depreciation lives and the amount of money users can retain, both of which influence investment decisions. Developments more unfavorable than anticipated, such as declines in government revenues, decisions to reduce public spending or increases in taxes, could negatively impact our results. 

Changes in Price and Significant Shortages of Component Products 

We are a significant user of steel and many other commodities required for the manufacture of our products. As a result, unanticipated increases in the prices of such commodities would increase our costs more than expected, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to fully offset the effect of these increased costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. 

We rely on suppliers to secure component products, particularly steel, required for the manufacture of our products. During the global economic downturn, we reduced our own production levels and, as a result, our suppliers experienced significant decreases in demand for their products. We anticipate significant volume increases in 2010 and are currently reviewing the ability of key suppliers to ramp up production. A disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of such components or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe our sources of raw materials and components products will be generally sufficient for our needs in the foreseeable future. However, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively impacted should supply turn out to be insufficient for our operations. 

In addition, global economic conditions and the volatility in the credit and capital markets have caused a significant decline in sales and revenues and restricted access to liquidity and financing for many businesses. If these conditions continue or worsen, many of our suppliers’ financial viability could be adversely impacted. As a result, their ability to continue supplying component products for the manufacture of our products could be significantly undermined, which, in turn, could negatively impact our ability to meet our customers’ demand for our products and our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Environmental Regulations 

Regulatory Compliance in General 

Our facilities, operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of general, non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot provide assurances that we will not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations or under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 

Page 12  

In particular, our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing exhaust emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies in the U.S. and other regulatory agencies around the world. For instance, national, state or local governments may set new emissions standards that could impact our products and operations in ways that are difficult to anticipate with accuracy. Thus, significant changes in standards, or the adoption of new standards, have the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 

Tier 4 Emissions Requirements 

The EPA has adopted new and more stringent emission standards, including Tier 4 nonroad diesel emission requirements applicable to the majority of our nonroad machinery and engine products commencing in 2011. We previously announced our intent to make our nonroad engines compliant with the new emission standards, including the Tier 4 emission requirements, by the stated deadline. We intend to use certain technology with state of the art integrated systems, as well as the transitional provisions provided by the regulations in order to comply with the Tier 4 emissions requirements. 

Although we are executing comprehensive plans designed to meet Tier 4 emissions requirements, these plans are subject to many variables, including the timing of our Tier 4 engine development and new machine product introduction. If we are unable to meet our plans as projected, it could delay or inhibit our ability to continue placing certain products on the market, which could negatively impact our financial results and competitive position. We are incurring research and development costs to design products to meet Tier 4 requirements. We plan to include costs associated with Tier 4 development and production in prices of our products. The level of market acceptance of prices for products that meet Tier 4 requirements could negatively impact our financial results and competitive position. 

Regulation of Carbon Emissions 

The potential for government-mandated reductions of carbon emissions from our facilities and products is increasing. Mandatory reductions being considered by many jurisdictions may take the form of new legislation and/or regulations. For example, in the U.S., the EPA has stated that it plans to promulgate regulations governing carbon emissions from automobiles, which may lead to regulation of other mobile sources, as well as stationary sources. Additionally, the American Clean Energy and Security Act has passed the U.S. House of Representatives, and similar legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate. This legislation is also designed to restrict and reduce carbon emissions from U.S. stationary and mobile sources. The final details and scope of these legislative and regulatory measures are unclear and their potential impact is still uncertain, so we cannot fully predict the impact on the company. Should final legislation or regulations be adopted imposing significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon us or our products, they could have a material impact upon the company’s capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position.  

Failure to Maintain Credit Ratings  

Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s costs of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term debt ratings assigned to their debt by the major credit rating agencies. These ratings are based, in significant part, on Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios, as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. On January 26, 2009, Moody’s Investment Services (Moody's) changed its outlook for the long-term ratings of the company and Cat Financial to negative from stable. Moody’s did not alter the ‘A2’ long-term ratings or the ‘Prime-1’ short-term ratings of the two companies. On April 21, 2009, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services (S&P) revised its outlook for the company and Cat Financial to negative from stable, while affirming the ‘A’ long-term corporate credit rating and ‘A-1’ short-term ratings on the company and its related entities. On April 22, 2009, Fitch Ratings, which had previously rated Caterpillar and Cat Financial slightly higher than Moody’s and S&P, downgraded the company and Cat Financial to ‘A’ from ‘A+’ and assigned a stable rating outlook. On May 6, 2009, DBRS, which had similarly rated Caterpillar and Cat Financial slightly higher than Moody’s and S&P, downgraded the company and Cat Financial to ‘A’ from ‘A (high)’ and stated that the trend for the rating was stable.  

Although the company and Cat Financial have committed credit facilities to provide liquidity, any downgrades of our credit ratings may increase our cost of borrowing and could have a further adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including restricting, in whole or in part, our access to the commercial paper market. There can be no assurance that the commercial paper market will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing for the company. An inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Page 13  

Risks to Financial Products Line of Business  

Inherent in the operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its customers. The creditworthiness of each customer, and the rate of delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including, but not limited to, relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the customer’s management team, commodity prices, political events and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. 

Changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions could have a material adverse effect on Cat Financial’s and our earnings and cash flows. Because a significant amount of the loans made by Cat Financial are made at fixed interest rates, its business is subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in market interest rates may influence its financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. In addition, since Cat Financial makes a significant amount of loans in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could also reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. Cat Financial also relies on a number of diversified global debt markets and funding programs to provide liquidity for its global operations, including commercial paper, medium term notes, retail notes, variable denomination floating rate demand notes, asset-backed securitizations and bank loans. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could impact Cat Financial’s access to funding, increase the associated funding costs and reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. Although Cat Financial manages interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and market liquidity risks through a variety of techniques, including a match funding program, the selective use of derivatives and a broadly diversified funding program, there can be no assurance that fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions will not have a material adverse effect on its and our earnings and cash flows. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies Cat Financial uses to hedge its exposure to these various types of risk is ineffective, we may incur losses. With respect to Cat Financial’s insurance and investment management operations, changes in the equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of its investment portfolio, thus requiring a negative adjustment to earnings. 

The recent difficult and volatile market conditions have adversely affected the financial industry in which Cat Financial operates. Cat Financial is significant to our operations and provides financing support to a significant share of our global sales. The inability of Cat Financial to access funds to support its financing activities to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Cat Financial’s liquidity and ongoing profitability are, in large part, dependent upon its timely access to capital and the costs associated with raising funds in different segments of the capital markets. Cat Financial depends and will continue to depend on its ability to access diversified funding alternatives to meet future cash flows requirements and to continue to fund its operations. A large portion of Cat Financial’s borrowings have been issued in the medium term note and commercial paper markets. While Cat Financial has maintained access to key global medium term note and commercial paper markets, there can be no assurance that such markets will continue to represent a reliable source of financing for Cat Financial. Should global economic conditions deteriorate or access to debt markets be reduced, Cat Financial could experience materially higher financing costs and become unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow its business and/or meet its debt service obligations as they mature, or it could be required to draw upon contractually committed lending agreements primarily provided by global banks and/or by seeking other funding sources. However, under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance such agreements and other funding sources would be available or sufficient. Any of these events could negatively impact Cat Financial’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The extent of any impact on our ability to meet funding or liquidity needs will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of any future market disruptions, the effects of governmental intervention in the financial markets including the effects of any programs or legislation designed to increase or restrict liquidity for certain areas of the market, general credit conditions, the volatility of equity and debt markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity and the cost of financing and other general economic and business conditions. 

Should current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may also face a number of other risks in connection with these events, including: 

      §   Market developments that may affect customer confidence levels and may cause declines in credit applications and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could impact Cat Financial’s write-offs and provision for credit losses.    

Page 14  

      §   The process Cat Financial uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires a high degree of management’s judgment regarding numerous subjective qualitative factors, including forecasts of economic conditions and how economic predictors might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. Ongoing financial market disruption and volatility may impact the accuracy of these judgments.    

      §   Cat Financial’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions or borrow from other financial institutions on acceptable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations.    

      §   Since Cat Financial’s counterparties are primarily financial institutions, their ability to perform in accordance with any of its underlying agreements could be adversely affected by market volatility and/or disruptions in the equity and credit markets.    

Market Acceptance of Products 

Our business relies on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our dealers, OEMs and customers. This is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to manage and maintain key dealer relationships, our ability to produce products that meet the quality expectations of our customers and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. In addition, our continued success in selling products that appeal to our customers is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations, and on the availability and effectiveness of legal protection for our innovation. Failure to continue to deliver quality and competitive products to the marketplace, to supply products that meet applicable regulatory requirements or to predict market demands for, or gain market acceptance of, our products, could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

In addition, the global demand for our products generally depends on our customers’ ability to pay for our products, which, in turn, depends on their access to funds. Due to global economic conditions many of our customers may be experiencing increased difficulty in generating funds from operations. Further, due to capital and credit market volatility and uncertainty, many financial institutions have revised their lending standards, thereby decreasing access to capital. If the capital and credit market volatility continues or worsens, the liquidity of our customers may decline which, in turn, would reduce their ability to purchase our products. 

Competition 

We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our outlook depends on a forecast of the company’s share of industry sales based on our ability to compete with others in the marketplace. The company competes on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with these other companies. Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively, our failure to produce our products at a competitive cost or an unexpected buildup in competitors’ new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets, leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used equipment prices. 

The environment remains competitive from a pricing standpoint. Our sales outlook assumes certain price increases that we announce from time to time will hold in the marketplace. Changes in market acceptance of price increases, changes in market requirements for price discounts or changes in our competitors’ behavior could have a material impact on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 

In addition, our results and ability to compete may be impacted positively or negatively by changes in our sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could be negatively impacted. 

Caterpillar Production System  

In 2006, we launched a significant productivity initiative, CPS to improve our order-to-delivery processes and factory efficiency. CPS aims to reduce waste and maximize value for our customers. Inability or failure to implement and utilize CPS or other productivity initiatives would have an adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. There can be no assurance that this initiative will be completed or beneficial to the company, or that any estimated cost savings from CPS will be realized.  

Page 15  

International Trade Policy  

Government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, in countries in which we sell large quantities of products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, a government’s adoption of “buy national” policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have a negative impact on our results of operations.  

Risks Due to Debt Covenants 

We maintain a number of credit facilities to support (i) our commercial paper program and (ii) general corporate purposes (facilities) and have issued debt securities to manage liquidity and fund operations (debt securities). The agreements relating to a number of the facilities and the debt securities contain certain restrictive covenants applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries, including Cat Financial. These covenants include maintaining a consolidated net worth (defined as the consolidated stockholder’s equity including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of not less than $9 billion, limitations on the incurrence of liens and certain restrictions on consolidation and merger. Cat Financial has also agreed under certain of these agreements to maintain a leverage ratio (consolidated debt to consolidated net worth, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31) not greater than 10.0 to 1, to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio (profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to interest expense, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended) of not less than 1.15 to 1 and not to terminate, amend or modify its support agreement with us. 

Although we do not believe any of these covenants presently materially restrict our operations, a breach of one or more of the covenants could result in material adverse consequences that could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. These consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering of an obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders, refusal by our lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities or the lowering or modification of our credit ratings or those of one or more of our subsidiaries. 

In 2008, we received the consent of lenders under certain of our facilities to our lower consolidated net worth of $6.087 billion as of December 31, 2008 and to Cat Financial’s lower quarterly interest coverage ratio of 0.97 as of December 31, 2008. In consideration of these consents, we agreed to increase the upper range of interest rates applicable to amounts that may be drawn by us and Cat Financial under certain of our facilities. 

Dealer/Original Equipment Manufacturers Sourcing Practices 

We sell finished products through an independent dealer network and directly to OEMs. Both carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs. Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or negatively. 

In particular, some of our engine customers are OEMs that manufacture or could in the future manufacture engines for their own products. Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products and in order to reduce costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company focus. However, we cannot assure that these customers will continue to outsource engine manufacture in the future. Increased levels of production insourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers’ business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. A significant reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Page 16  

Additional Tax Expense or Additional Tax Exposure  

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and regulations. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on the company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.  

Risks to Global Operations 

Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally and in countries with political and economic instability including, without limitation, Brazil, PRC and India, which exposes our business operations to certain political and economic risks inherent in operating globally. These risks include: 

      §   changes in local government laws, regulations and policies;    

      §   imposition of currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints;    

      §   imposition of burdensome tariffs or quotas;    

      §   national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and    

      §   political and economic instability or civil unrest may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries.    

As a normal practice, we do not assume such events in our outlooks unless they are already happening when the outlook is issued. As a result, the occurrence of one or more of these events has the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Currency Fluctuations 

The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues, are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar vis-à-vis other currencies will affect the U.S. dollar amounts of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. This could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial condition if such increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar are substantial. 

Risk Due to Funding Obligations Under Pension Plans 

We maintain certain defined benefit pension plans for our employees, which impose on us certain funding obligations. In determining our future payment obligations under the plans, we assume certain rates of return on the plan assets and growth rates of certain costs. Significant adverse changes in credit or capital markets could result in actual rates of return being materially lower than projected. Our cost growth rates may also be materially higher than projected. These factors could significantly increase our payment obligations under the plans, require us to take a significant charge on our balance sheet and, as a result, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Impact of Acquisitions 

We may from time to time engage in acquisitions involving risks, including failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such acquisitions. For example, with any past or future acquisitions, there is the possibility that: 

      §   The business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture;    

      §   Technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected;    

      §   The company may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities;    

      §   Unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations and systems;    

Page 17  

      §   The company may fail to retain and assimilate employees of the acquired business;    

      §   Higher than expected finance costs may arise due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations; and    

      §   The company may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer bases.    

Failure to continue implementing the company’s acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

In addition, in order to conserve cash for operations, we may undertake acquisitions that would be financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. We cannot guarantee any such acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to undertake an acquisition by issuing equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. 

Litigation and Contingency 

We face an inherent business risk of exposure to various types of claims and lawsuits. We are involved in various intellectual property, product liability, product warranty and environmental claims and lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of every claim and lawsuit, we believe these lawsuits and claims will not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. However, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such claims. 

As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we establish reserves based on our assessment of such contingencies. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve, requiring us to make additional material payments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Healthcare Reform Legislation  

Healthcare reform is currently a high priority for the U.S. Presidential Administration and U.S. Congress. Both the U.S. House and the U.S. Senate have passed healthcare reform bills. However, this legislation remains subject to modification during the process of harmonizing the House and Senate bills and its content and potential impact remain uncertain. Should any final legislation impose significant costs on the company, including, without limitation, by making government subsidies received for Medicare-equivalent prescription drug coverage taxable, this could have a material impact upon the company’s results of operations and competitive position.  

Changes in Accounting Standards 

Our financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which are periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to issue new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, their effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Page 18  

Natural Disasters  

The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes and other forms of severe weather in the U.S. or in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Such events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and overseas suppliers, disruption in the transport of our products to dealers and end-users and delay in the delivery of our products to our distribution centers. 

  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments as of December 31, 2009.      

Not applicable. 

  Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant as of December 31, 2009.     

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

1 Will retire as CEO effective July 1, 2010 and as Chairman effective October 31, 2010. 

2 Effective January 1, 2010. Will become CEO effective July 1, 2010 and Chairman effective October 31, 2010. 

  Item 2. Properties.