Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Introduction.  

Morgan Stanley, a financial holding company, is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” or the “Company,” mean Morgan Stanley (the “Parent”) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.  

A summary of the activities of each of the Company’s business segments is as follows:  

Institutional Securities provides financial advisory and capital-raising services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.  

Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the Company’s 65% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC (the “Wealth Management Joint Venture” or “Wealth Management JV”), provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services and engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities.  

Asset Management provides a broad array of investment strategies that span the risk/return spectrum across geographies, asset classes and public and private markets to a diverse group of clients across the institutional and intermediary channels as well as high net worth clients.  

See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s discontinued operations.  

The results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”)), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), and legal actions in the United States of America (“U.S.”) and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income, and commodity prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to the Company’s unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of the Company’s acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including the Wealth Management JV and with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”)); the Company’s reputation; inflation, natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of the Company’s risk management policies; and technological changes; or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to the Company’s businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect the Company’s business, see “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, and “Other Matters” herein.  

50  

Table of Contents 

The discussion of the Company’s results of operations below may contain forward-looking statements. These statements, which reflect management’s beliefs and expectations, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of the risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company’s future results, please see “Forward-Looking Statements” immediately preceding “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1, “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A, and “Executive Summary—Significant Items” and “Other Matters” herein.  

51  

Table of Contents 

Executive Summary.  

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

      52    

Table of Contents 

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts)—(Continued).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    53      

Table of Contents 

Financial Information and Statistical Data (dollars in millions, except where noted and per share amounts)—(Continued).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

N/M—Not Meaningful.  

 (1) See Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements for information on redeemable and nonredeemable noncontrolling interests.  

 (2) See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for information on discontinued operations.  

 (3) For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”), see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (4) The calculation of each business segment’s return on average common equity uses income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of each business segment’s average common equity. The return on average common equity is a non-generally accepted accounting principle (“non-GAAP”) financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to assess operating performance. The computation of average common equity for each business segment is determined using the Company’s Required Capital framework (“Required Capital Framework”), an internal capital adequacy measure (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements—Required Capital” herein). The effective tax rates used in the computation of business segment return on average common equity were determined on a separate legal entity basis.  

 (5) Book value per common share equals common shareholders’ equity of $60,601 million at December 31, 2012, $60,541 million at December 31, 2011 and $47,614 million at December 31, 2010 divided by common shares outstanding of 1,974 million at December 31, 2012, 1,927 million at December 30, 2011 and 1,512 million at December 31, 2010. Book value per common share in 2011 was reduced by approximately $2.61 per share as a result of the MUFG stock conversion (see “Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein). Book value per common share in 2010 included a benefit of approximately $1.40 per share due to the issuance of 116 million shares of common stock in 2010 corresponding to the mandatory redemption of the junior subordinated debentures underlying $5.6 billion of equity units (see “Other Matters—Redemption of CIC Equity Units and Issuance of Common Stock” herein).  

      54    

Table of Contents 

 (6) Tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. For a discussion of tangible common equity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—The Balance Sheet” herein.  

 (7) Return on average tangible common equity is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. The calculation of return on average tangible common equity uses income from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley less preferred dividends as a percentage of average tangible common equity.  

 (8) Tangible book value per common share is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess capital adequacy. Tangible book value per common share equals tangible common equity divided by period-end common shares outstanding.  

 (9) For a discussion of the effective income tax rate, see “Overview of 2012 Financial Results” and “Significant Items—Income Tax Items” herein.  

 (10) For a discussion of Global Liquidity Reserve and average liquidity, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity Risk Management Framework—Global Liquidity Reserve” herein.  

 (11) The Company’s December 31, 2011 Tier 1 common capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and Total capital ratio were each reduced by approximately 30 basis points and Tier 1 leverage ratio was reduced by approximately 20 basis points due to an approximate $1.2 billion deferred tax asset disallowance adjustment, which resulted in a reduction to the Company’s Tier 1 common capital, Tier 1 capital, Total capital, risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”) and adjusted average assets by such amount.  

 (12) Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management business segments.  

 (13) Amounts exclude the Asset Management business segment’s proportionate share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.  

 (14) Prior-period amounts have been recast to exclude Quilter & Co. Ltd. (“Quilter”). See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for information on discontinued operations.  

 (15) Pre-tax profit margin is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure that the Company and investors use to assess operating performance. Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.  

 (16) Annualized revenues per global representative equal Global Wealth Management Group business segment’s annualized revenues divided by average global representative headcount.  

 (17) Fee-based client assets represent the amount of assets in client accounts where the basis of payment for services is a fee calculated on those assets.  

 (18) Client assets per global representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end global representative headcount.  

 (19) Global fee-based client asset flows represent the net asset flows, excluding interest and dividends, in client accounts where the basis of payment for services is a fee calculated on those assets.  

 (20) Approximately $72 billion, $56 billion and $55 billion of the bank deposit balances at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, are held at Company-affiliated depositories with the remainder held at Citigroup, Inc. (“Citi”) affiliated depositories. These deposit balances are held at certain of the Company’s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) insured depository institutions for the benefit of the Company’s clients through their accounts. For additional information regarding the Company’s deposits, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements and “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Funding Management—Deposits” herein.  

 (21) From time to time, the Company may disclose certain “non-GAAP financial measures” in the course of its earnings releases, earnings conference calls, financial presentations and otherwise. For these purposes, “GAAP” refers to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) defines a “non-GAAP financial measure” as a numerical measure of historical or future financial performance, financial positions, or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts or is subject to adjustments that effectively exclude, or include, amounts from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company are provided as additional information to investors in order to provide them with further transparency about, or an alternative method for assessing, our financial condition and operating results. These measures are not in accordance with, or a substitute for, GAAP, and may be different from or inconsistent with non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. Whenever the Company refers to a non-GAAP financial measure, the Company will also generally present the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, along with a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measure and the GAAP financial measure.  

    55      

Table of Contents 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (22) Debt Valuation Adjustment (“DVA”) represents the change in the fair value of certain of the Company’s long-term and short-term borrowings resulting from the fluctuation in the Company’s credit spreads and other credit factors.  

      56    

Table of Contents 

Global Market and Economic Conditions.  

During 2012, global market and economic conditions improved modestly as European policymakers became more aggressive in combating the region’s debt crisis and central bankers around the globe took a number of actions to stimulate the economic recovery. Despite these improvements, global market and economic conditions in 2012 were challenged by concerns about the ongoing European sovereign debt crisis, the U.S. “fiscal cliff” (i.e., the combination of expiring tax cuts and spending cuts on or after January 1, 2013), the U.S. federal debt ceiling and its potential adverse impact on the U.S. economy, and slowing economic growth in emerging markets.  

In the U.S., major equity market indices ended 2012 higher compared with the beginning of the year, primarily due to improved investor confidence. The U.S. economy continued its moderate growth pace in 2012, although the growth in economic activity paused in the fourth quarter as uncertainty about fiscal policy slowed business and government spending. Conditions in the labor market improved modestly as the unemployment rate decreased to 7.8% at December 31, 2012 from 8.5% at December 31, 2011. Housing market conditions continued to improve in 2012, but investments in commercial real estate projects remained challenged. Consumer spending and business investments improved during 2012, while consumer price inflation remained relatively low. Oil prices declined in 2012 driven by concerns about the global economy. The Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) kept key interest rates at historically low levels and, at December 31, 2012, the federal funds target rate was between zero and 0.25%, and the discount rate was 0.75%. The FOMC announced in December of 2012 that key interest rates will likely remain at historically low levels until the unemployment rate falls to 6.5% or lower, as long as inflation forecasts remain near a 2% target. To lower long-term interest rates and to support economic growth, during 2012 the FOMC continued to purchase U.S. Treasury securities with maturities between six and 30 years and sell an equal amount of U.S. Treasury securities with maturities of three years or less. In September of 2012, the FOMC launched a new program to buy additional agency mortgage-backed securities every month until the job market improves. Although the U.S. President signed into law a bill on January 2, 2013 to ameliorate the “fiscal cliff” crisis, the U.S. economy continued to be challenged by the need to raise the U.S. federal debt ceiling and reduce government spending.  

In Europe, major equity market indices ended 2012 higher compared with the beginning of the year, primarily due to investors’ optimism about Europe’s progress in addressing its sovereign debt crisis, especially in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain (the “European Peripherals”), and the sovereign debt exposures in the European banking system. In euro-area, gross domestic product declined in 2012 and the unemployment rate increased to 11.7% at December 31, 2012 from 10.6% at December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, the European Central Bank’s (“ECB”) benchmark interest rate was 0.75%. The Bank of England’s (“BOE”) benchmark interest rate was 0.5% and was unchanged from a year ago. To inject further monetary stimulus into the economy in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), the BOE increased the size of its quantitative easing program on two separate occasions in 2012. In 2012, the ECB conducted its second three-year refinancing operation and widened the pool of eligible collateral for refinancing operations to ease funding conditions for euro-area banks. In addition, European Union leaders agreed on a new bailout and debt-restructuring agreement designed to reduce Greece’s debt and reached another agreement to ease the recapitalization of struggling European banks. In September 2012, the ECB outlined the details of a plan to buy euro-area government bonds and reiterated its pledge to preserve the euro. In December 2012, European Union finance ministers reached an agreement to bring many of the continent’s banks under a single supervisor. Despite these actions, several major rating agencies downgraded the credit ratings for some euro-zone countries, and some European Union member countries, such as Italy and Spain, entered into a technical recession (two consecutive quarters of negative change in gross domestic product) in 2012.  

In Asia, major equity market indices ended 2012 higher compared with the beginning of the year. Japan’s economy entered into a technical recession in 2012. To revive its economy and overcome deflation, the Bank of Japan increased the size of its quantitative easing program four times during 2012, and the Japanese government  

    57      

Table of Contents 

 approved a $116 billion economic stimulus package in January of 2013. Japan’s benchmark interest rate remained within a range of zero to 0.1% in 2012. China’s economic growth decelerated in 2012 as import and export growth slowed after global economic turmoil impacted consumption. To stimulate the Chinese economy, the People’s Bank of China cut its bank reserve requirement by 0.5% on two separate occasions in 2012 and lowered its one-year benchmark lending rate by 0.25% to 6.31% and 0.31% to 6.00% in June and July of 2012, respectively.  

Overview of 2012 Financial Results.  

Consolidated Results. The Company recorded net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $68 million on net revenues of $26,112 million in 2012 compared with net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of $4,110 million on net revenues of $32,236 million in 2011.  

Net revenues in 2012 included negative revenues of $4,402 million due to the impact of DVA compared with positive revenues of $3,681 million in 2011. Results for 2011 also included the comprehensive settlement with MBIA Insurance Corporation (“MBIA”), which resulted in a pre-tax loss of approximately $1.7 billion. See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers” herein. Non-interest expenses decreased 2% to $25,597 million in 2012 compared with $26,137 million in 2011. Compensation expenses decreased 4% to $15,622 million in 2012 compared with $16,333 million in 2011. Non-compensation expenses increased 2% to $9,975 million in 2012, primarily due to increased litigation costs reported in the Institutional Securities business segment and non-recurring expenses primarily associated with the Morgan Stanley Wealth Management integration.  

Diluted EPS and diluted EPS from continuing operations were $(0.02) and $0.02 in 2012, respectively, compared with $1.23 and $1.26, respectively, in 2011. The earnings per share calculation for 2011 included a negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion, or $0.98 per diluted share (calculated using 1.79 billion diluted average shares outstanding under the if-converted method), related to the conversion of MUFG’s outstanding Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock (“Series B Preferred Stock”) into the Company’s common stock. See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—MUFG Stock Conversion” herein.  

Excluding the impact of DVA, net revenues were $30,514 million and diluted EPS from continuing operations were $1.64 per share in 2012, compared with $28,555 million and $(0.08) per share, respectively, in 2011.  

The Company’s effective tax rate from continuing operations was a benefit of 46.4% for 2012. The effective tax rate included an aggregate net tax benefit of $142 million consisting of a discrete benefit and an out-of-period tax provision. Excluding this net tax benefit, the effective tax rate from continuing operations in 2012 would have been a benefit of 18.8%. The effective tax rate is reflective of the tax benefits associated with DVA losses in 2012.  

The results of Quilter, the Company’s retail wealth management business in the U.K. (reported in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment) and Saxon, a provider of servicing and subservicing of residential mortgage loans (reported in the Institutional Securities business segment), are presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. During 2012, the Company completed the sale of Quilter, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $108 million. In addition, the sale of Saxon’s assets was substantially completed in the second quarter of 2012. Discontinued operations in 2012 also include a provision of approximately $115 million related to a settlement with the Federal Reserve concerning the independent foreclosure review related to Saxon. Discontinued operations were a gain (loss) of $(43) million, $(160) million and $610 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Institutional Securities. Loss from continuing operations before taxes was $1,671 million in 2012 compared with income from continuing operations before taxes of $4,591 million in 2011. Net revenues for 2012 were $10,553 million compared with $17,175 million in 2011. The results in 2012 included negative revenues of  

      58    

Table of Contents 

 $4,402 million due to the impact of DVA compared with positive revenues of $3,681 million in 2011. Investment banking revenues for 2012 decreased 7% to $3,929 million from 2011, reflecting lower revenues from advisory and equity underwriting transactions, partially offset by higher revenues from fixed income underwriting transactions. The following sales and trading net revenues results exclude the impact of DVA. The presentation of net revenues excluding the impact of DVA is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers useful for the Company and investors to allow further comparability of period-to-period operating performance. See “Business Segments—Institutional Securities—Sales and Trading Net Revenues” for more information. Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, of $5,477 million decreased 11% from 2011, reflecting lower revenues in the cash business as a result of lower volumes. Excluding the impact of DVA, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues were $5,630 million in 2012, an increase of 27% from 2011, primarily reflecting higher results in interest rate, foreign exchange and credit products, including higher levels of client activity in securitized products and the impact of the MBIA settlement in 2011. Other sales and trading net losses were $495 million in 2012 compared with net losses of $1,327 million in 2011. Results primarily consisted of certain activities associated with the Company’s lending activities, gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt, costs related to the amount of liquidity held (“negative carry”) and revenues related to hedge accounting on certain derivative contracts. Other revenues of $195 million were recognized in 2012 compared with other losses of $241 million in 2011. Results for 2012 included income of $152 million, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”) (see “Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein), compared with a pre-tax loss of $783 million in 2011. Non-interest expenses decreased 3% to $12,224 million in 2012. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2012 were $6,653 million compared with $7,199 million in 2011. Non-compensation expenses were $5,571 million compared with $5,385 million in 2011.  

Global Wealth Management Group. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $1,600 million in 2012 compared with $1,255 million in 2011. Net revenues were $13,516 million in 2012 compared with $13,289 million in 2011. Transactional revenues, consisting of Commissions and fees, Principal transactions—Trading and Investment banking decreased 7% to $4,290 million from 2011. Principal transactions—Trading revenues increased 7% to $1,193 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and higher revenues from structured notes and corporate bonds transactions, partially offset by lower revenues from municipal securities, corporate equity securities, government securities and foreign exchange transactions. Commissions and fees revenues decreased 17% to $2,261 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to lower client activity. Investment banking revenues increased 11% to $836 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to higher revenues from closed-end funds and higher fixed income underwriting. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% to $7,288 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, and higher revenues from annuities and the bank deposit program held at Citi depositories. Net interest increased 9% to $1,612 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily resulting from higher revenues from the bank deposit program, interest on the available for sale portfolio and secured financing activities. Non-interest expenses decreased 1% to $11,916 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily reflecting a decrease in compensation expenses, partially offset by non-recurring expenses, primarily associated with the Morgan Stanley Wealth Management integration. Total client asset balances were $1,776 billion at December 31, 2012 and client assets in fee-based accounts were $573 billion, or 32% of total client assets. Global fee-based client asset flows for 2012 were $24.0 billion compared with $41.6 billion in 2011.  

Asset Management. Income from continuing operations before taxes was $590 million in 2012 compared with $253 million in 2011. Net revenues were $2,219 million in 2012 compared with $1,887 million in 2011. The increase in net revenues included net investment gains in the Company’s Merchant Banking, Traditional Asset Management and Real Estate Investing businesses, as well as net investment gains associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Non-interest expenses were $1,629 million in 2012 compared with $1,634 million in 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 1% to $841 million in 2012.  

    59      

Table of Contents 

Significant Items.  

Wealth Management JV. On September 17, 2012, the Company completed the purchase from Citi of an additional 14% stake in the Wealth Management JV for $1.89 billion. On September 25, 2012, the Company announced that its U.S. Wealth Management business was rebranded to Morgan Stanley Wealth Management. The Company incurred $173 million of non-recurring costs associated with the Morgan Stanley Wealth Management integration and the additional 14% purchase of the Wealth Management JV in 2012. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Litigation costs. During 2012, the Company incurred increased litigation expenses of approximately $280 million within the Institutional Securities business segment, which is included in Other non-interest expenses in the consolidated statement of income.  

Severance costs. During 2012 and 2011, the Company incurred severance costs of approximately $350 million and $195 million, respectively, which is included in Compensation and benefits expenses in the consolidated statement of income.  

Corporate Lending. The Company recorded the following amounts primarily associated with loans and lending commitments within the Institutional Securities business segment (see “Business Segments—Institutional Securities” herein):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The increases for 2012 were primarily driven by enhancements to the estimate for the inherent losses for and growth in the Company’s held for investment portfolio.  

Japanese Securities Joint Venture. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded income (loss) of $152 million, $(783) million and $(62) million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS (see Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements). See “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.  

Income Tax Items. In 2012, the Company recognized an aggregate net tax benefit of $142 million. This included a discrete benefit of approximately $299 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with either the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or new information regarding the status of certain Internal Revenue Service examinations. The Company also recognized an aggregate out-of-period net tax provision of approximately $157 million, to adjust the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with partnership investments, principally in the Company’s Asset Management business segment and repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in prior years. Subsequent to the release of the Company’s fourth quarter earnings on January 18, 2013, additional adjustments to deferred tax accounts primarily associated with partnership investments were identified that aggregate a net tax benefit of $87 million, of which $69 million was considered to be out-of-period. Accordingly, the $226 million out-of-period net tax provision for 2012  

      60    

Table of Contents 

 originally disclosed in the Company’s earnings release while a comprehensive review of the Company’s deferred tax accounts continued, has been adjusted to $157 million as reflected above. The Company completed the comprehensive review of its deferred tax accounts in February 2013. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

In 2011, the Company recognized a discrete tax benefit of $447 million from the remeasurement of a deferred tax asset and the reversal of a related valuation allowance. The deferred tax asset and valuation allowance were recognized in income from discontinued operations in 2010 in connection with the recognition of a $1.2 billion loss due to writedowns and related costs following the Company’s commitment to a plan to dispose of Revel Entertainment Group, LLC (“Revel”). The Company recorded the valuation allowance because the Company did not believe it was more likely than not that it would have sufficient future net capital gain to realize the benefit of the expected capital loss to be recognized upon the disposal of Revel. During the quarter ended March 31, 2011, the disposal of Revel was restructured as a tax-free like kind exchange and the disposal was completed. The restructured transaction changed the character of the future taxable loss to ordinary. The Company reversed the valuation allowance because the Company believes it is more likely than not that it will have sufficient future ordinary taxable income to recognize the recorded deferred tax asset. In accordance with the applicable accounting literature, this reversal of a previously established valuation allowance due to a change in circumstances was recognized in income from continuing operations during the quarter ended March 31, 2011. Additionally, in 2011 the Company recognized a discrete tax benefit of $137 million related to the reversal of U.S. deferred tax liabilities associated with prior years’ undistributed earnings of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries that were determined to be indefinitely reinvested abroad and a discrete tax cost of $100 million related to the remeasurement of Japan deferred tax assets as a result of a decrease in the local statutory income tax rates starting in 2012.  

U.K. Matters. In July 2011, the U.K. government enacted legislation imposing a bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities at December 31, 2011 on the consolidated balance sheets of banks and banking groups operating in the U.K. The Company accrued a levy charge of approximately $14 million and $59 million for 2012 and 2011, respectively. The levy was not deductible for U.K. corporation tax purposes. During 2010, the Company recognized a charge of approximately $272 million in Compensation and benefits expense relating to the U.K. government’s payroll tax on discretionary above-base compensation.  

Monoline Insurers. The results for 2011 included losses of $1,838 million related to the Company’s counterparty credit exposures to Monoline Insurers (“Monolines”), principally MBIA, compared with losses of $865 million in 2010.  

During 2011, the Company announced a comprehensive settlement with MBIA. The settlement terminated outstanding credit default swap (“CDS”) protection purchased from MBIA on commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) and resolved pending litigation between the two parties for consideration of a net cash payment to the Company. The loss on the settlement, which was recorded as a reduction to fixed income and commodities revenue, approximated $1.7 billion. The settlement had the effect of significantly reducing RWAs under the Basel Committee’s proposed Basel III framework, thereby increasing the pro forma Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III, a non-GAAP financial measure, by approximately 75 basis points by December 31, 2012 (see “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” herein). Under current Basel I standards, the Tier 1 common ratio was reduced by approximately 20 basis points.  

MUFG Stock Conversion. On June 30, 2011, the Company’s outstanding Series B Preferred Stock owned by MUFG with a face value of $7.8 billion (carrying value $8.1 billion) and a 10% dividend was converted into 385,464,097 shares of the Company’s common stock, including approximately 75 million shares resulting from the adjustment to the conversion ratio pursuant to the transaction agreement. As a result of the adjustment to the conversion ratio, the Company incurred a one-time, non-cash negative adjustment of approximately $1.7 billion in its calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share during 2011.  

    61      

Table of Contents 

European Peripheral Countries. On December 22, 2011, the Company entered into agreements to restructure certain derivative transactions that decreased its exposure to the European Peripherals. As a result, the Company’s results included interest rate product revenues of approximately $600 million related primarily to the release of credit valuation adjustments associated with the transactions, reported within Principal transactions—Trading in the consolidated statement of income.  

Huaxin Securities Joint Venture. In June 2011, the Company and Huaxin Securities Co., Ltd. (“Huaxin Securities”) (also known as China Fortune Securities Co., Ltd.) jointly announced the operational commencement of their securities joint venture in China. During 2011, the Company recorded initial costs of $130 million related to the formation of this joint venture in Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income.  

OIS Fair Value Measurement. In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company began using the overnight indexed swap (“OIS”) curve as an input to value its collateralized interest rate derivative contracts. At December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012, substantially all of the Company’s collateralized derivative contracts were valued using the OIS curve. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $176 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 in Principal transactions—Trading upon the initial application of the OIS curve. During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company recognized a pre-tax loss of approximately $108 million in Principal transactions—Trading upon application of the OIS curve to certain additional fixed income products within the Institutional Securities business segment. Previously, the Company discounted these contracts based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”).  

Goodwill and Intangibles. Impairment charges related to goodwill and intangible assets were $201 million in 2010. These impairment charges included $193 million related to FrontPoint Partners LLC (“FrontPoint”). See “Business Segments–Asset Management” for further information.  

Mortgage-Related Trading. The Company recorded mortgage-related trading gains primarily related to commercial mortgage-backed securities, U.S. subprime mortgage proprietary trading exposures and non-subprime residential mortgages of $1.2 billion in 2010.  

Settlement with DFS. On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off of its business segment Discover Financial Services (“DFS”) to its shareholders. On February 11, 2010, DFS paid the Company $775 million in complete satisfaction of its obligations to the Company regarding the sharing of proceeds from a lawsuit against Visa and MasterCard. The payment was recorded as a gain in discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of income for 2010.  

Gain on Sale of Noncontrolling Interest. In connection with the transaction between the Company and MUFG to form a joint venture in Japan, the Company recorded an after-tax gain of $731 million from the sale of a noncontrolling interest in its Japanese institutional securities business. This gain was recorded in Paid-in capital in the Company’s consolidated statements of financial condition at December 31, 2010 and changes in total equity for 2010. See “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.  

Gain on Sale of Retail Asset Management. On June 1, 2010, the Company completed the sale of substantially all of its retail asset management business (“Retail Asset Management”), including Van Kampen Investments, Inc. (“Van Kampen”), to Invesco Ltd. (“Invesco”). The Company received $800 million in cash and approximately 30.9 million shares of Invesco stock upon sale, resulting in a cumulative after-tax gain of $718 million, of which $8 million, $28 million and $570 million were recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The remaining gain, representing tax basis benefits, was recorded in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. The results of Retail Asset Management are reported as discontinued operations within the Asset Management business segment for all periods presented through the date of sale. The Company recorded the 30.9 million shares as securities available for sale and subsequently sold the shares in the fourth quarter of 2010, resulting in a realized gain of approximately $102 million reported within Other revenues in the consolidated statement of income for 2010.  

      62    

Table of Contents 

Sale of Stake in CICC. In December 2010, the Company completed the sale of its 34.3% stake in China International Capital Corporation (“CICC”) for a pre-tax gain of approximately $668 million, which is included within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income for 2010. See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Business Segments.  

Substantially all of the Company’s operating revenues and operating expenses are allocated to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to its respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures.  

As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company’s consolidated results. Intersegment Eliminations also reflect the effect of fees paid by the Institutional Securities business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment related to the bank deposit program. Losses from continuing operations before income taxes recorded in Intersegment Eliminations were $4 million and $15 million in 2012 and 2010, respectively. The Company did not recognize any Intersegment Eliminations gains or losses in 2011.  

Net Revenues.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. Principal transactions—Trading revenues include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as a market maker and gains and losses on the Company’s related positions. Principal transactions—Trading revenues include the realized gains and losses from sales of cash instruments and derivative settlements, unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s positions related to market-making activities, and gains and losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. In many markets, the realized and unrealized gains and losses from the purchase and sale transactions will include any spreads between bids and offers. Certain fees received on loans carried at fair value and dividends from equity securities are also recorded in this line item since they relate to market-making positions. Commissions received for purchasing and selling listed equity securities and options are recorded separately in the Commissions and fees line item. Other cash and derivative instruments typically do not have fees associated with them, and fees for related services would be recorded in Commissions and fees.  

The Company often invests directly, as a principal, in investments or other financial instruments to economically hedge its obligations under its deferred compensation plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Company are recorded in Principal transactions—Trading and Principal transactions—Investments. Expenses associated with the related deferred compensation plans are recorded in Compensation and benefits. Compensation expense is calculated based on the notional value of the award granted, adjusted for upward and downward changes in fair value of the referenced investment and is recognized ratably over the prescribed vesting period for the award. Generally, changes in compensation expense resulting from changes in fair value of the referenced investment will be offset by changes in fair value of investments made by the Company. However, there may be a timing difference between the immediate revenue recognition of gains and losses on the Company’s investments and the deferred recognition of the related compensation expense over the vesting period.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. The Company’s investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions. In some cases, such investments are required or are a necessary part of offering other products. The revenues recorded are the result of realized gains and losses from sales and unrealized gains and losses from ongoing fair value changes of the Company’s holdings as well as from investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans  

    63      

Table of Contents 

 (as mentioned in the paragraph above). Typically, there are no fee revenues from these investments. The sales restrictions on the investments relate primarily to redemption and withdrawal restrictions on investments in real estate funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, which include investments made in connection with certain employee deferred compensation plans (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements). Restrictions on interests in exchanges and clearinghouses generally include a requirement to hold those interests for the period of time that the Company is clearing trades on that exchange or clearinghouse. Additionally, there are certain principal investments related to assets held by consolidated real estate funds, which are primarily related to holders of noncontrolling interests.  

Commissions and Fees. Commission and fee revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter (“OTC”) equity securities, services related to sales and trading activities, and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees include fees associated with the management and supervision of assets, account services and administration, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, separately managed accounts, shareholder servicing and the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment also include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees for investment management. Mutual fund distribution fees in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.  

Asset management fees in the Asset Management business segment arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees in the Asset Management business segment are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Net Interest. Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, securities available for sale, securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, loans, deposits, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, long-term borrowings, trading strategies, customer activity in the Company’s prime brokerage business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell (“reverse repurchase agreements”) and Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (“repurchase agreements”) and Securities borrowed and Securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.  

      64    

Table of Contents 

Market Making.  

As a market maker, the Company stands ready to buy, sell or otherwise transact with customers under a variety of market conditions and provide firm or indicative prices in response to customer requests. The Company’s liquidity obligations can be explicit and obligatory in some cases, and in others, customers expect the Company to be willing to transact with them. In order to most effectively fulfill its market-making function, the Company engages in activities, across all of its trading businesses, that include, but are not limited to: (i) taking positions in anticipation of, and in response to, customer demand to buy or sell and—depending on the liquidity of the relevant market and the size of the position—holding those positions for a period of time; (ii) managing and assuming basis risk (risk associated with imperfect hedging) between customized customer risks and the standardized products available in the market to hedge those risks; (iii) building, maintaining and rebalancing inventory, through trades with other market participants, and engaging in accumulation activities to accommodate anticipated customer demand; (iv) trading in the market to remain current on pricing and trends; and (v) engaging in other activities to provide efficiency and liquidity for markets. Interest income and expense are also impacted by market-making activities as debt securities held by the Company earn interest and securities are loaned, borrowed, sold with agreement to repurchase and purchased with agreement to resell.  

65  

Table of Contents 

INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Supplemental Financial Information.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans, net of syndication expenses.  

66  

Table of Contents 

Investment banking revenues were as follows:   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table presents the Company’s volumes of announced and completed mergers and acquisitions, equity and equity-related offerings, and fixed income offerings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Source: Thomson Reuters, data at January 16, 2013. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity-related offerings and fixed income offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or change in the value of a transaction.  

 (2) Amounts include transactions of $100 million or more. Announced mergers and acquisitions exclude terminated transactions.  

 (3) Amounts include Rule 144A and public common stock, convertible and rights offerings.  

 (4) Amounts include non-convertible preferred stock, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities and taxable municipal debt. Amounts also include publicly registered and Rule 144A issues. Amounts exclude leveraged loans and self-led issuances.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues.  

Sales and trading net revenues are composed of Principal transactions—Trading revenues; Commissions and fees; Asset management, distribution and administration fees; and Net interest revenues (expenses). See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information about what is included in the above-referenced components of sales and trading revenues. In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views these net revenues in the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions and fees, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company’s positions, and other related expenses. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information related to gains (losses) on derivative instruments.  

Sales and trading net revenues were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. For further information, see Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Sales and trading net revenues by business were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) All prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation. For further information, see Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (2) Other sales and trading net revenues include net gains (losses) from certain loans and lending commitments and related hedges associated with the Company’s lending activities, net gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt and net losses associated with costs related to negative carry.  

The following sales and trading net revenues results exclude the impact of DVA (see footnote 1 in the following table). The reconciliation of sales and trading, including equity sales and trading and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues, from a non-GAAP to a GAAP basis is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Sales and trading net revenues, including fixed income and commodities and equity sales and trading net revenues that exclude the impact of DVA, are non-GAAP financial measures that the Company considers useful for the Company and investors to allow further comparability of period-to-period operating performance.  

2012 Compared with 2011.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues in 2012 decreased 7% from 2011, reflecting lower revenues from advisory and equity underwriting transactions, partially offset by higher revenues from fixed income underwriting transactions. Advisory revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,369 million in 2012, a decrease of 21% from 2011, reflecting lower completed market volumes. Overall, underwriting revenues of $2,560 million increased 3% from 2011. Fixed income underwriting revenues were $1,669 million in 2012, an increase of 23% from 2011, reflecting increased bond issuance volumes. Equity underwriting revenues decreased 21% to $891 million in 2012, reflecting lower levels of market activity.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues. Total sales and trading net revenues decreased to $6,210 million in 2012 from $12,949 million in 2011, reflecting lower revenues in fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues and equity sales and trading net revenues, partially offset by lower losses in other sales and trading net revenues.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Equity. Equity sales and trading net revenues decreased 36% to $4,347 million in 2012 from 2011. The results in equity sales and trading net revenues included negative revenue in 2012 of $1,130 million due to the impact of DVA compared with positive revenue of $619 million in 2011 due to the impact of DVA. Equity sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2012 decreased 11% from 2011, reflecting lower revenues in the cash business, as a result of lower volumes.  

In 2012, equity sales and trading net revenues also reflected gains of $68 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with losses of $38 million in 2011 due to the widening of such spreads and other credit factors. The Company also recorded losses of $243 million in 2012 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with gains of $182 million in 2011 due to the widening of such spreads and other credit factors. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other credit factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues were $2,358 million in 2012 compared with net revenues of $7,506 million in 2011. Results in 2012 included negative revenue of $3,272 million due to the impact of DVA, compared with positive revenue of $3,062 million in 2011 due to the impact of DVA. Fixed income net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2012 increased 34% over 2011, reflecting higher results in interest rate, foreign exchange and credit products, including higher levels of client activity in securitized products, with results in 2011 being negatively impacted by losses of $1,838 million from Monolines, including a loss approximating $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011 from the Company’s comprehensive settlement with MBIA (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers” herein for further information). The results in 2011 also included interest rate product revenues of approximately $600 million, primarily related to the release of credit valuation adjustments upon the restructuring of certain derivative transactions that decreased the Company’s exposure to the European Peripherals (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—European Peripheral Countries” herein for further information). Commodity net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, decreased 20% in 2012 due to a difficult market environment. Results in the fourth quarter of 2011 included a loss of approximately $108 million upon application of the OIS curve to certain fixed income products (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” herein and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

In 2012, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues reflected net losses of $128 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with losses of $1,249 million, including Monolines, in 2011. The Company also recorded losses of $482 million in 2012 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with gains of $746 million in 2011 due to the widening of such spreads and other credit factors. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Other. In addition to the equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues discussed above, sales and trading net revenues included other trading revenues, consisting of certain activities associated with the Company’s lending activities, gains (losses) on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt, costs related to negative carry and revenues related to hedge accounting on certain derivative contracts. The fair value measurement of loans and lending commitments takes into account fee income that is considered an attribute of the contract. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are renegotiated or repriced or if the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. During 2011, in accordance with its risk management practices, the Company began accounting for certain new loans and lending commitments as held for investment. Mark-to-market valuations were not recorded for these loans and lending commitments, but they were evaluated for collectability and an allowance for credit losses was recorded. Effective April 1, 2012, the Company began accounting for all new corporate loans and lending commitments as either held for investment or held for sale. This corporate lending portfolio  

69  

Table of Contents 

 has grown, and the Company expects this trend to continue. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A, herein.  

Other sales and trading net losses were $495 million in 2012 compared with net losses of $1,327 million in 2011. The results in both years included losses related to negative carry. The 2012 results also included losses on economic hedges related to the Company’s long-term debt compared with gains in 2011. Results in 2012 were partially offset by net gains of $740 million associated with loans and lending commitments (mark-to-market valuations and realized gains of $1,650 million and losses on related hedges of $910 million). Results in 2011 included net losses of approximately $631 million associated with loans and lending commitments (mark-to-market valuations and realized losses of approximately $699 million and gains on related hedges of approximately $68 million). The results in 2012 also included net investment gains in the Company’s deferred compensation and co-investment plans compared with net losses in 2011.  

Net Interest. Net interest expense increased to $1,786 million in 2012 from net interest expense of $1,080 million in 2011, primarily due to lower revenues from securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed transactions.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information on what is included in Principal transactions—Investments.  

Principal transactions net investment gains of $219 million were recognized in 2012 compared with net investment gains of $239 million in 2011. The gains in 2012 and 2011 primarily included mark-to-market gains on principal investments in real estate funds and net gains from investments associated with the Company’s deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

Other. Other revenues of $195 million were recognized in 2012 compared with other losses of $241 million in 2011. The results in 2012 included income of $152 million, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS. The results in 2011 included pre-tax losses of $783 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). The gains in 2012 were partially offset by increases in the provision for loan losses. The results in both periods also included gains from the Company’s retirement of certain of its debt.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses decreased 3% in 2012. The decrease was due to lower compensation expenses, partially offset by higher non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 8% in 2012, in part due to lower net revenues, excluding DVA and the comprehensive settlement with MBIA, and were partially offset by severance expenses related to reductions in force during the year. Non-compensation expenses increased 3% in 2012, compared with 2011. Brokerage, clearing and exchange expenses decreased 9% in 2012, primarily due to lower volumes of activity. Information processing and communications expense increased 6% in 2012, primarily due to ongoing investments in technology. Professional services expenses increased 22% in 2012, primarily due to higher legal and regulatory costs and consulting expenses. Other expenses increased 5% in 2012. The results in 2012 included increased litigation costs of approximately $280 million and a higher provision for unfunded loan commitments. The results in 2011 included the initial costs of $130 million associated with Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Huaxin Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information). The results in 2011 also included a charge of $59 million due to the bank levy on relevant liabilities and equities on the consolidated balance sheets of “U.K. Banking Groups” at December 31, 2011 as defined under the bank levy legislation enacted by the U.K government in July 2011 (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—U.K. Matters” herein for further information).  

2011 Compared with 2010.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues in 2011 decreased 2% from 2010, reflecting lower revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions, partially offset by higher advisory revenues.  

70  

Table of Contents 

 Overall, underwriting revenues of $2,491 million decreased 12% from 2010, reflecting lower levels of market activity. Investment banking revenues were also impacted by the contribution in 2010 of the majority of the Company’s Japanese investment banking business as a result of a transaction with MUFG (see “Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein). Equity underwriting revenues decreased 22% to $1,132 million in 2011. Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased 1% to $1,359 million in 2011. Advisory revenues from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,737 million in 2011, an increase of 18% from 2010, reflecting higher levels of completed activity.  

Sales and Trading Net Revenues. Total sales and trading net revenues increased to $12,949 million in 2011 from $10,294 million in 2010, reflecting higher equity and fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues, partially offset by higher losses in other sales and trading net revenues.  

Equity. Equity sales and trading net revenues increased 40% to $6,770 million in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher revenues in the derivatives business, the Company’s electronic trading platform and prime brokerage. The increase in the derivatives business and the Company’s electronic trading platform primarily reflected higher levels of client activity. The increase in prime brokerage net revenues was primarily due to higher average client balances. The results in equity sales and trading net revenues also included positive revenue in 2011 of $619 million due to the impact of DVA compared with negative revenue of $121 million in 2010 due to the impact of DVA.  

In 2011, equity sales and trading net revenues also reflected losses of $38 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with gains of $20 million in 2010 due to the tightening of counterparties’ CDS spreads and other credit factors. The Company also recorded gains of $182 million in 2011 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with gains of $32 million in 2010. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues increased 27% to $7,506 million in 2011 from $5,895 million in 2010. Results in 2011 included positive revenue of $3,062 million due to the impact of DVA, compared with negative revenues of $703 million in 2010 due to the impact of DVA. Fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues, excluding the impact of DVA, in 2011 decreased 33% over 2010. Fixed income revenues, excluding DVA, in 2011 decreased 30% over 2010. Results in 2011 were negatively impacted by losses of $1,838 million from Monolines compared with losses of $865 million in 2010. On December 13, 2011, the Company announced a comprehensive settlement with MBIA. The loss on the settlement was approximately $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011 (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Monoline Insurers” herein for further information). The results in 2011 also reflected lower revenues in credit products due to the stressed credit environment and lower revenues in currency products, partially offset by higher revenues in interest rate products due to higher levels of market volatility and client activity and approximately $600 million primarily related to the release of credit valuation adjustments upon the restructuring of certain derivative transactions that decreased the Company’s exposure to the European Peripherals (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—European Peripheral Countries” herein for further information). Commodity revenues, excluding DVA, decreased 18% in 2011, primarily due to lower levels of client activity, including structured transactions. Results in the fourth quarter of 2011 included a loss of approximately $108 million upon application of the OIS curve to certain fixed income products. Results in 2010 included a gain of approximately $123 million related to a change in the fair value measurement methodology to use the OIS curve as an input to value substantially all collateralized interest rate derivative contracts (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” herein and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

In 2011, fixed income and commodities sales and trading net revenues reflected net losses of $1,249 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of counterparties’ CDS  

71  

Table of Contents 

 spreads and other credit factors compared with losses of $717 million in 2010. The Company also recorded gains of $746 million in 2011 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the widening of the Company’s CDS spreads and other credit factors compared with gains of $443 million in 2010. The gains and losses on CDS spreads and other factors include gains and losses on related hedging instruments.  

Other. In 2011, other sales and trading net revenues reflected a net loss of $1,327 million compared with a net loss of $441 million in 2010. Results in 2011 included net losses of $631 million associated with loans and lending commitments (mark-to-market valuations and realized losses of $699 million and gains on related hedges of $68 million). The results in 2011 included higher net losses related to negative carry. Results in 2010 also included a gain of approximately $53 million related to the OIS curve fair value methodology referred to above (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—OIS Fair Value Measurement” and Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Net Interest. Net interest expense increased to $1,080 million in 2011 from $226 million in 2010, primarily due to higher interest expenses that resulted from increased interest rates associated with the Company’s long-term borrowings and stock lending transactions.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Principal transaction net investment gains of $239 million were recognized in 2011 compared with net investment gains of $809 million in 2010. Results in both periods reflected gains in principal investments in real estate funds and investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and co-investment plans. The results for 2010 also reflected a gain of $313 million on a principal investment held by a consolidated investment partnership, which was sold in 2010. The portion of the gain related to third-party investors amounted to $183 million and was recorded in the net income applicable to noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statement of income.  

Other. Other losses of $241 million were recognized in 2011 compared with other revenues of $731 million in 2010. The results in 2011 primarily included pre-tax losses of approximately $783 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein), partially offset by gains from the Company’s retirement of its long-term debt. Results in 2010 included a pre-tax gain of $668 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in CICC, partially offset by pre-tax losses of approximately $62 million arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 7% in 2011. The increase was due to higher compensation expenses and higher non-compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 3% in 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2010 included a non-recurring charge of approximately $269 million related to the U.K. government’s payroll tax on discretionary above-base compensation in 2010. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees increased 14% in 2011, primarily due to higher levels of business activity. Information processing and communications expenses increased 13% in 2011, primarily due to ongoing investments in technology. Professional services expenses decreased 9% in 2011, primarily due to lower legal fees and consulting expenses. Other expenses increased 43% in 2011, primarily due to the initial costs of $130 million associated with Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities Company Limited and a charge of $59 million due to the U.K. bank levy (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—U.K. Matters” herein for further information). Other expenses in 2010 included $102.7 million related to the Assurance of Discontinuance between the Company and the Office of the Attorney General for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (“Massachusetts OAG”) to resolve the Massachusetts OAG’s investigation of the Company’s financing, purchase and securitization of certain subprime residential mortgages.  

Income Tax Items.  

In 2012, the Company recognized in income from continuing operations a net tax benefit of approximately $249 million attributable to the Institutional Securities business segment. This included a discrete benefit of approximately $299 million related to the remeasurement of reserves and related interest associated with either  

72  

Table of Contents 

 the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations or new information regarding the status of certain Internal Revenue Service examinations. Additionally, in 2012, the Company recognized an out-of-period net tax provision of approximately $50 million primarily related to the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries recorded in prior years. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively, and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

Discontinued Operations.  

On October 24, 2011, the Company announced that it had reached an agreement to sell Saxon, a provider of servicing and subservicing of residential mortgage loans, to Ocwen Financial Corporation. Accordingly, the results of Saxon are reported as discontinued operations within the Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented. The transaction with Ocwen, which was restructured as a sale of Saxon’s assets during the first quarter of 2012, was substantially completed in the second quarter of 2012. The remaining operations of Saxon were substantially wound down during the year. The net loss from discontinued operations in 2012 includes a provision of approximately $115 million related to a settlement with the Federal Reserve concerning the independent foreclosure review related to Saxon. The Company expects to incur incremental wind-down costs in future periods.  

On February 17, 2011, the Company completed the sale of Revel. The sale price approximated the carrying value of Revel at the time of disposal and, accordingly, the Company did not recognize any pre-tax gain or loss on the sale. The results of Revel are reported as discontinued operations within the Institutional Securities business segment for all periods presented through the date of sale. Results for 2010 included losses of approximately $1.2 billion in connection with writedowns and related costs of such disposition. For further information on Revel, see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Income Tax Items” herein.  

In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed the disposal of CityMortgage Bank (“CMB”), a Moscow-based mortgage bank. The results of CMB are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale within the Institutional Securities business segment.  

For further information, see Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests.  

Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests primarily relate to Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. (“MSMS”) (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information).  

73  

Table of Contents 

GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Revenues. Global Wealth Management Group business segment’s net revenues are composed of Transactional, Asset management, Net interest and Other revenues. Transactional revenues include Investment banking, Principal transactions—Trading, and Commissions and fees. Asset management revenues include Asset management, distribution and administration fees, and fees related to the bank deposit program. Net interest revenues include net interest revenues related to the bank deposit program, interest on securities available for sale  

74  

Table of Contents 

 and all other net interest revenues. Other revenues include revenues from available for sale securities, customer account services fees, other miscellaneous revenues and revenues from Principal transactions—Investments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Wealth Management JV. During 2012, the Company completed the purchase of an additional 14% stake in the Wealth Management JV from Citi for $1.89 billion, increasing the Company’s interest from 51% to 65%. Prior to September 17, 2012, Citi’s results related to its 49% interest were reported in net income (loss) applicable to nonredeemable noncontrolling interests. Due to the terms of the revised agreement with Citi, subsequent to the purchase of the additional 14% stake, Citi’s results related to the 35% interest are reported in net income (loss) applicable to redeemable noncontrolling interests. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

On September 25, 2012, the Company announced that its U.S. Wealth Management business was rebranded to Morgan Stanley Wealth Management.  

See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

2012 Compared with 2011.  

Transactional.  

Investment Banking. Global Wealth Management Group business segment’s investment banking revenues includes revenues from the distribution of equity and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Investment banking revenues increased 11% to $836 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to higher revenues from closed-end funds and higher fixed income underwriting.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. Principal transactions—Trading include revenues from customers’ purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company’s inventory positions, which are held primarily to facilitate customer transactions and gains and losses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Principal transactions—Trading revenues increased 7% to $1,193 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to gains related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans and higher revenues from structured notes and corporate bonds transactions, partially offset by lower revenue from municipal securities, corporate equity securities, government securities and foreign exchange transactions.  

Commissions and Fees. Commissions and fees revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commissions and fees revenues decreased 17% to $2,261 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to lower client activity.  

Asset Management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for information about the composition of Asset management, distribution and administration fees.  

75  

Table of Contents 

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 7% to $7,288 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, and higher revenues from annuities and the bank deposit program held at Citi depositories. The referral fees for deposits placed with Citi affiliated depository institutions were $383 million and $255 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

Balances in the bank deposit program increased to $130.8 billion at December 31, 2012 from $110.6 billion at December 31, 2011. Deposits held by Company-affiliated FDIC-insured depository institutions were $71.7 billion at December 31, 2012 and $56.3 billion at December 31, 2011.  

Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $573 billion and represented 32% of total client assets at December 31, 2012 compared with $485 billion and 30% at December 31, 2011, respectively. Total client asset balances increased to $1,776 billion at December 31, 2012 from $1,637 billion at December 31, 2011, primarily due to the impact of market conditions and net new asset inflows. Client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million increased to $1,308 billion at December 31, 2012 from $1,212 billion at December 31, 2011. Global fee-based client asset flows for 2012 were $24.0 billion compared with $41.6 billion in 2011.  

Net Interest.  

Interest income and Interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions.  

Net interest increased 9% to $1,612 million in 2012 from 2011, primarily resulting from higher revenues from the bank deposit program, interest on the available for sale portfolio and secured financing activities.  

Other.  

Other. Other revenues were $316 million in 2012, a decrease of 23% from 2011, primarily due to lower gains on sales of securities available for sale.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses decreased 1% in 2012 from 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 2% from 2011, primarily due to lower compensable revenues, partially offset by higher expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Non-compensation expenses increased 1% in 2012 from 2011. Information processing and communications expenses increased 6% in 2012, primarily due to higher telecommunications and data storage costs. Marketing and business development expenses increased 6% from 2011, primarily due to higher costs associated with advertising and infrastructure, partially offset by lower costs associated with conferences and seminars. Other expenses increased 5% in 2012, primarily due to non-recurring costs related to Morgan Stanley Wealth Management integration (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Wealth Management JV” herein). Professional services expenses decreased 8% in 2012 from 2011, primarily due to lower technology consulting costs.  

2011 Compared with 2010.  

Transactional.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues decreased 9% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to lower equity and fixed income underwriting activities.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. Principal transactions—Trading revenues decreased 14% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans, lower revenues from corporate equity and fixed income securities, government securities and structured notes, partially offset by higher revenues from municipal securities, derivatives and unit trusts.  

76  

Table of Contents 

Commissions and Fees. Commissions and fees revenues increased 4% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher client activity.  

Asset Management.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 8% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher fee-based revenues, partially offset by lower revenues as a result of the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program. From June 2009 until April 1, 2010, revenues in the bank deposit program were primarily included in Asset management, distribution and administration fees. Beginning on April 1, 2010, revenues in the bank deposit program held at the Company’s U.S. depository institutions were recorded as Interest income due to renegotiations of the revenue sharing agreement as part of the Global Wealth Management Group business segment’s retail banking strategy. The Global Wealth Management Group business segment continues to earn referral fees for deposits placed with Citi affiliated depository institutions, and these fees continue to be recorded in Asset management, distribution and administration fees until the legacy Smith Barney deposits are migrated to the Company’s U.S. depository institutions. The referral fees for deposits were $255 million and $382 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Balances in the bank deposit program decreased to $110.6 billion at December 31, 2011 from $113.3 billion at December 31, 2010.  

Client assets in fee-based accounts increased to $485 billion and represented 30% of total client assets at December 31, 2011 compared with $460 billion and 28% at December 31, 2010, respectively. Total client asset balances decreased to $1,637 billion at December 31, 2011 from $1,657 billion at December 31, 2010, primarily due to the impact of weakened market conditions, partially offset by an increase in net new assets. Client asset balances in households with assets greater than $1 million decreased to $1,212 billion at December 31, 2011 from $1,222 billion at December 31, 2010. Global fee-based asset net inflows for 2011 were $41.6 billion compared with $31.9 billion in 2010.  

Net Interest.  

Net interest increased 32% in 2011 from 2010, primarily resulting from an increase in Interest income due to interest on the securities available for sale portfolio and mortgages and the change in classification of the fees generated by the bank deposit program noted above.  

Other.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Principal transaction net investment gains were $4 million in 2011 compared with net investment gains of $19 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 primarily reflected losses related to investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans compared with such investments in the prior year.  

Other. Other revenues were $410 million in 2011, an increase of 22% from 2010, primarily due to gains on sales of securities available for sale.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses increased 6% in 2011 from 2010. Compensation and benefits expenses increased 6% in 2011 from 2010, primarily reflecting higher net revenues and support services-related compensation, partially offset by lower expenses associated with certain employee deferred compensation plans. Non-compensation expenses increased 4% in 2011 from 2010. In 2011, marketing and business development expenses increased 13% from 2010, primarily due to higher costs associated with conferences and seminars. Professional services expenses increased 14% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to increased technology  

77  

Table of Contents 

 consulting costs and legal fees. Information processing and communications expenses increased 10% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to higher telecommunications and data storage costs. Occupancy and equipment expenses decreased 5% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to lower infrastructure costs and continued branch consolidation.  

Discontinued Operations.  

On April 2, 2012, the Company completed the sale of Quilter, its retail wealth management business in the U.K., resulting in a pre-tax gain of $108 million in 2012 in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. The results of Quilter are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.  

78  

Table of Contents 

ASSET MANAGEMENT  

INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

79  

Table of Contents 

Statistical Data.  

The Asset Management business segment’s period-end and average assets under management or supervision was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds.  

 (2) On March 1, 2011, the Company and the principals of FrontPoint completed a transaction whereby FrontPoint senior management and portfolio managers own a majority equity stake in FrontPoint, and the Company retains a minority stake. At December 31, 2011, the assets under management attributed to FrontPoint are represented within the share of minority stake assets.  

 (3) Amounts represent the Asset Management business segment’s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a minority stake.  

Activity in the Asset Management business segment’s assets under management or supervision during 2012, 2011 and 2010 was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

80  

Table of Contents 

 (1) Fixed income outflows for 2011 include $1.3 billion due to the revised treatment of assets under management previously reported as a net flow.  

 (2) The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and funds of real estate funds.  

 (3) The amount in 2011 includes two months of net flows related to FrontPoint, whereas 2010 includes twelve months of net flows related to FrontPoint.  

2012 Compared with 2011.  

Investment Banking. The Asset Management business segment generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate and merchant banking funds.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. See “Business Segments—Net Revenues” herein for further information on what is included in Principal transactions—Trading.  

In 2012, the Company recognized losses of $45 million compared with losses of $22 million in 2011. Trading results in 2012 primarily reflected losses related to certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company, as well as losses on hedges on certain investments. Trading results in 2011 primarily reflected losses related to certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans and certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. Real estate and private equity investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.  

The Company recorded principal transactions net investment gains of $513 million in 2012 compared with gains of $330 million in 2011. The increase in 2012 was primarily related to higher net gains in the Company’s Merchant Banking business, as well as higher net investment gains associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues generated from the management and supervision of assets, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, and separately managed accounts and fees relating to the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds. Asset management fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.  

Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 8% to $1,703 million in 2012. The increase in 2012 primarily reflected higher management and administration revenues and higher performance fees.  

The Company’s assets under management increased $51 billion from $287 billion at December 31, 2011 to $338 billion at December 31, 2012, reflecting $26 billion in market appreciation and net customer inflows of $25 billion primarily in the Company’s liquidity funds. In 2011, net inflows of $26 billion primarily reflected the sweep of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management client cash balances of approximately $19 billion into Morgan Stanley managed liquidity funds and inflows of $8 billion into alternatives funds, partially offset by outflows of $6 billion in fixed income products.  

81  

Table of Contents 

Other. Other revenues were $55 million in 2012 as compared with $25 million in 2011. The results in 2012 included gains associated with the expiration of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company. The results in 2012 also included lower revenues associated with the Company’s minority investments in Avenue Capital Group (“Avenue”), a New York-based investment manager, and Lansdowne Partners (“Lansdowne”), a London-based investment manager. The results in 2011 were partially offset by a $27 million writedown in the Company’s minority investment in FrontPoint.  

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses were $1,629 million in 2012 as compared with $1,634 million in 2011. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 1% in 2012. Non-compensation expenses were relatively unchanged in 2012 compared with 2011.  

2011 Compared with 2010.  

Investment Banking. Investment banking revenues decreased in 2011 from 2010, primarily reflecting lower revenues from infrastructure products.  

Principal Transactions—Trading. In 2011, the Company recognized losses of $22 million compared with losses of $49 million in 2010. Trading results in 2011 primarily reflected losses related to certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans and certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Trading results in 2010 primarily included losses from hedges on certain investments and long-term debt. Trading results in 2010 also included $25 million related to contributions to money market funds.  

Principal Transactions—Investments. The Company recorded principal transactions net investment gains of $330 million in 2011 compared with gains of $996 million in 2010. The decrease in 2011 was primarily related to lower net gains in the Company’s Merchant Banking and Traditional Asset Management businesses, including certain investments associated with the Company’s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, as well as lower net investment gains associated with certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company.  

Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees. Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 3% to $1,582 million in 2011. The decrease in 2011 primarily reflected lower performance fees and lower fund management and administration fees, primarily due to the absence of FrontPoint for ten months of the current year, partially offset by an increase in revenues associated with higher average assets under management.  

The Company’s assets under management increased $15 billion from $272 billion at December 31, 2010 to $287 billion at December 31, 2011, reflecting net customer inflows. The Company recorded net customer inflows of $26 billion in 2011 compared with net outflows of $6 billion in 2010. The increase in flows for 2011 primarily reflected the sweep of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management client cash balances of approximately $19 billion into Morgan Stanley managed liquidity funds and inflows of $8 billion into alternatives funds, partially offset by outflows of $6 billion in fixed income products.  

Other. Other revenues were $25 million in 2011 as compared with $164 million in 2010. The results in 2011 included revenues associated with the Company’s minority investments in Lansdowne and Avenue, partially offset by a $27 million writedown in the Company’s minority investment in FrontPoint. The results in 2010 primarily reflected revenues associated with these minority stakes and a pre-tax gain of approximately $96 million from the sale of the Company’s investment in Invesco (see Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). The results in 2010 also reflected gains associated with the reduction of a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company and impairment charges of $126 million related to FrontPoint.  

82  

Table of Contents 

Non-interest Expenses. Non-interest expenses decreased 17% in 2011 from 2010, primarily reflecting a decrease in compensation expenses. Compensation and benefits expenses decreased 23% in 2011 from 2010, primarily due to the absence of FrontPoint for ten months of the current year and decreases associated with lower net revenues. Non-compensation expenses decreased 8% in 2011 compared with the prior year, as the prior year included intangible asset impairment charges of $67 million related to certain FrontPoint management contracts.  

Income Tax Items.  

In 2012, the Company recognized in income from continuing operations an out-of-period net tax provision of approximately $107 million, attributable to the Asset Management business segment, primarily related to the overstatement of deferred tax assets associated with partnership investments in prior years. The Company has evaluated the effects of the understatement of the income tax provision both qualitatively and quantitatively and concluded that it did not have a material impact on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated financial statements.  

Discontinued Operations. 

On June 1, 2010, the Company completed the sale of Retail Asset Management, including Van Kampen, to Invesco. The Company recorded a cumulative after-tax gain of $718 million, of which $8 million, $28 million and $570 million were recorded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The results of Retail Asset Management are reported as discontinued operations within the Asset Management business segment for all periods presented. See “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Gain on Sale of Retail Asset Management” for further information.  

In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company classified a real estate property management company as held for sale within the Asset Management business segment. The transaction closed during the first quarter of 2012. The results of this company are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.  

In the third quarter of 2010, the Company completed a disposal of a real estate property within the Asset Management business segment. The results related to this property are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale.  

For further information on discontinued operations, see Notes 1 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Nonredeemable Noncontrolling Interests.  

Nonredeemable noncontrolling interests are primarily related to the consolidation of certain real estate funds sponsored by the Company. Principal investment gains associated with these consolidated funds were $225 million, $180 million and $444 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

83  

Table of Contents 

Accounting Developments.  

Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities.  

In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued an accounting update that creates new disclosure requirements requiring entities to disclose both gross and net information for derivatives and other financial instruments that are either offset in the statement of financial condition or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar arrangement.  

In January 2013, the FASB issued an accounting update that clarified the intended scope of the new balance sheet offsetting disclosures to derivatives, repurchase agreements, and securities lending transactions to the extent that they are either offset in the financial statements or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement.  

These disclosure requirements are effective for the Company beginning on or after January 1, 2013. Since these amended principles require only additional disclosures concerning offsetting and related arrangements, adoption will not affect the Company’s consolidated statements of income or financial condition.  

Other Matters.  

Real Estate.  

The Company acts as the general partner for various real estate funds and also invests in certain of these funds as a limited partner. The Company’s real estate investments at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 are described below. Such amounts exclude investments associated with certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans.  

At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the consolidated statements of financial condition included amounts representing real estate investment assets of consolidated subsidiaries of approximately $2.2 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, including noncontrolling interests of approximately $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, for a net amount of $0.4 billion in both periods. This net presentation is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure for the Company and investors to use in assessing the Company’s net exposure. In addition, the Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to real estate investments of $0.5 billion at December 31, 2012.  

In addition to the Company’s real estate investments, the Company engages in various real estate-related activities, including origination of loans secured by commercial and residential properties. The Company also securitizes and trades in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate. In connection with these activities, the Company has provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. The Company continues to monitor its real estate-related activities in order to manage its exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. See “Legal Proceedings—Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters” in Part I, Item 3, herein and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.  

Japanese Securities Joint Venture.  

On May 1, 2010, the Company and MUFG formed a joint venture in Japan of their respective investment banking and securities businesses. MUFG and the Company have integrated their respective Japanese securities companies by forming two joint venture companies. MUFG contributed the investment banking, wholesale and retail securities businesses conducted in Japan by Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co., Ltd. into MUMSS. The  

84  

Table of Contents 

 Company contributed the investment banking operations conducted in Japan by its subsidiary MSMS, formerly known as Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd., into MUMSS (MSMS, together with MUMSS, the “Joint Venture”). MSMS has continued its sales and trading and capital markets business conducted in Japan. Following the respective contributions to the Joint Venture and a cash payment of 23 billion yen ($247 million) from MUFG to the Company, the Company owns a 40% economic interest in the Joint Venture, and MUFG owns a 60% economic interest in the Joint Venture.  

The Company holds a 40% voting interest and MUFG holds a 60% voting interest in MUMSS, while the Company holds a 51% voting interest and MUFG holds a 49% voting interest in MSMS. The Company continues to consolidate MSMS in its consolidated financial statements and, commencing on May 1, 2010, accounted for its interest in MUMSS as an equity method investment within the Institutional Securities business segment. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company recorded income (loss) of $152 million, $(783) million and $(62) million, respectively, within Other revenues in the consolidated statements of income, arising from the Company’s 40% stake in MUMSS.  

In order to enhance the risk management at MUMSS, during 2011, the Company entered into a transaction with MUMSS whereby the risk associated with the fixed income trading positions that previously caused the majority of the aforementioned MUMSS losses in 2011 was transferred to MSMS. In return for entering into the transaction, the Company received total consideration of $659 million, which represented the estimated fair value of the fixed income trading positions transferred.  

To the extent that losses incurred by MUMSS result in a requirement to restore its capital, MUFG is solely responsible for providing this additional capital to a minimum level, and the Company is not obligated to contribute additional capital to MUMSS. Because of losses incurred by MUMSS, MUFG contributed approximately $370 million and $259 million of capital to MUMSS on April 22, 2011 and November 24, 2011, respectively. The MUFG capital injection improved the capital base and restored the capital adequacy ratio of MUMSS in each case. As a result of the capital injections, during 2011, the Company recorded increases of approximately $251 million in the carrying amount of the equity method investment in MUMSS, reflecting the Company’s 40% share of the increases in the net asset value of MUMSS, and increases in the Company’s Paid-in capital of approximately $146 million (after-tax).  

To the extent that MUMSS is required to increase its capital level due to factors other than losses, such as changes in regulatory requirements, both MUFG and the Company are required to contribute the necessary capital based upon their economic interest as set forth above. In this context, the Company contributed $129 million and MUFG contributed $195 million of additional proportionate capital investments on November 24, 2011 to meet an anticipated change in regulatory capital requirements of MUMSS.  

See Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements and “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” herein for further information.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.  

Expense. The Company recognizes the compensation cost of an employee’s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee’s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. On June 1, 2010, the defined benefit pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the “U.S. Qualified Plan”) was amended to cease future benefit accruals after December 31, 2010. Any benefits earned by participants under the U.S. Qualified Plan at December 31, 2010 were preserved and will be payable based on the U.S. Qualified Plan’s provisions. Net periodic pension expense for U.S. and non-U.S. plans was $99 million, $72 million and $96 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

85  

Table of Contents 

Contributions. The Company made contributions of $42 million, $57 million and $72 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.  

The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded plans by considering several factors, including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, the types of assets in which the plans are invested, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The Company’s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax laws (for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or “ERISA”). At December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the U.S. Qualified Plan. No contributions were made to the U.S. Qualified Plan for 2012, 2011 and 2010.  

See Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the Company’s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans.  

American Taxpayer Relief Act.  

On January 2, 2013, the U.S. President signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (the “Act”). Among other things, the Act extends with retroactive effect to January 1, 2012 a provision of U.S. tax law that defers the imposition of tax on certain active financial services income of certain foreign subsidiaries earned outside of the U.S. until such income is repatriated to the United States as a dividend. As enactment of the Act was not completed until 2013, the provisions of the Act that benefit the Company’s 2012 tax position will not be recognized until 2013. Accordingly, the Company will record an approximate $80 million benefit attributable to the Act’s retroactive extension of these provisions as part of income taxes from continuing operations in the quarter ending March 31, 2013. Further, while the Company estimates a similar amount of benefit related to 2013 activities, the overall financial impact to the Company will depend upon the actual level, composition, and geographic mix of earnings. The current year effective tax rate would have been a benefit of 62.1% had the Act been enacted in 2012.  

Regulatory Outlook.  

The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010. While certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, other portions will be effective following extended transition periods or through numerous rulemakings by multiple governmental agencies, and only a portion of those rulemakings have been completed. It remains difficult to assess fully the impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the Company and on the financial services industry generally. In addition, various international developments, such as the adoption of risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, known as “Basel III,” will continue to impact the Company in the coming years.  

It is likely that 2013 and subsequent years will see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. See also “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 herein.  

86  

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies.  

The Company’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.  

Fair Value.  

Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value. A significant number of the Company’s financial instruments are carried at fair value. The Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include but are not limited to:  

   •    Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased;  

   •    Securities available for sale;  

   •    Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;  

   •    Certain Securities purchased under agreements to resell;  

   •    Certain Deposits;  

   •    Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;  

   •    Certain Securities sold under agreements to repurchase;  

   •    Certain Other secured financings; and  

   •    Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes.  

Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., the “exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  

In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses observable prices in active markets, and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and, therefore, require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be recategorized from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many instruments. For further information on the valuation process, fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related valuation techniques, and quantitative information about and sensitivity of significant unobservable inputs used in Level 3 fair value measurements, see Notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Level 3 Assets and Liabilities. The Company’s Level 3 assets before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $20.4 billion and $32.5 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, and represented approximately 6% and 10% at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, of the assets measured at fair value (approximately 3% and 4%, respectively, of total assets at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011). Level 3 liabilities before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value hierarchy were $7.7 billion and $11.2 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, and represented approximately 4% and 6%, respectively, of the Company’s liabilities measured at fair value. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about changes in Level 3 assets and liabilities.  

87  

Table of Contents 

Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis. At December 31, 2012, certain of the Company’s assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, primarily relating to loans, other investments, premises, equipment and software costs, and intangible assets. The Company incurs losses or gains for any adjustments of these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.  

For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.  

See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis.  

Fair Value Control Processes. The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to ensure that the values used for financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied and that the assumptions are reasonable.  

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company’s valuation policies, processes and procedures.  

Goodwill and Intangible Assets.  

Goodwill. The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on July 1 and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below its business segments. Goodwill no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition once it has been assigned to a reporting unit. As such, all of the activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically developed, are available to support the value of the goodwill. For both the annual and interim tests, the Company has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, the Company determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is not required. However, if the Company concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more likely than not the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are derived based on valuation techniques the Company believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair values are generally determined utilizing methodologies that incorporate price-to-book, price-to-earnings and assets under management multiples of certain comparable companies. The Company also utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology for certain reporting units. At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, each of the Company’s reporting units with goodwill had a fair value that was substantially in excess of its carrying value.  

Intangible Assets. Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. For amortizable intangible assets, an impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. An impairment loss will be recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows.  

88  

Table of Contents 

Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed annually (or more frequently when certain events or circumstances exist) for impairment. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, an impairment exists when the carrying amount exceeds its fair value.  

For both goodwill and intangible assets, to the extent an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. For amortizable intangible assets, the new cost basis is amortized over the remaining useful life of that asset. Adverse market or economic events could result in impairment charges in future periods.  

See Notes 4 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about goodwill and intangible assets.  

Legal and Regulatory Contingencies.  

In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution.  

Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the entities that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.  

The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company’s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.  

Accruals for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis. Where available information indicates that it is probable a liability had been incurred at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the Company can reasonably estimate the amount of that loss, the Company accrues the estimated loss by a charge to income. In many proceedings, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or even possible or to estimate the amount of any loss. For certain legal proceedings, the Company can estimate possible losses, additional losses, ranges of loss or ranges of additional loss in excess of amounts accrued. For certain other legal proceedings, the Company cannot reasonably estimate such losses, particularly for proceedings that are in their early stages of development or where plaintiffs seek substantial or indeterminate damages. Numerous issues may need to be resolved, including through potentially lengthy discovery and determination of important factual matters, and by addressing novel or unsettled legal questions relevant to the proceedings in question, before a loss or additional loss or range of loss or additional loss can be reasonably estimated for any proceeding.  

Significant judgment is required in deciding when and if to make these accruals and the actual cost of a legal claim or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals.  

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings.  

Income Taxes.  

The Company is subject to the income tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and must also make estimates about when certain items affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority  

89  

Table of Contents 

 upon examination or audit. The Company periodically evaluates the likelihood of assessments in each taxing jurisdiction resulting from current and subsequent years’ examinations, and unrecognized tax benefits related to potential losses that may arise from tax audits are established in accordance with the guidance on accounting for unrecognized tax benefits. Once established, unrecognized tax benefits are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.  

The Company’s provision for income taxes is composed of current and deferred taxes. Current income taxes approximate taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period. The Company’s deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the applicable enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. The Company’s deferred tax balances also include deferred assets related to tax attributes carryforwards, such as net operating losses and tax credits that will be realized through reduction of future tax liabilities and, in some cases, are subject to expiration if not utilized within certain periods. The Company performs regular reviews to ascertain whether deferred tax assets are realizable. These reviews include management’s estimates and assumptions regarding future taxable income and incorporate various tax planning strategies, including strategies that may be available to utilize net operating losses before they expire. Once the deferred tax asset balances have been determined, the Company may record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset balances to reflect the amount of these balances (net of valuation allowance) that the Company estimates it is more likely than not to realize at a future date. Both current and deferred income taxes could reflect adjustments related to the Company’s unrecognized tax benefits.  

Significant judgment is required in estimating the consolidated provision for (benefit from) income taxes, current and deferred tax balances (including valuation allowance, if any), accrued interest or penalties and uncertain tax positions. Revisions in our estimates and/or the actual costs of a tax assessment may ultimately be materially different from the recorded accruals and unrecognized tax benefits, if any.  

See Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on our provision for income taxes, related income tax assets and liabilities and tax examinations.  

90  

Table of Contents 

Liquidity and Capital Resources.  

The Company’s senior management establishes the liquidity and capital policies of the Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company’s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company’s asset and liability position. The Company’s Treasury Department, Firm Risk Committee, Asset and Liability Management Committee and other control groups assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company’s business activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure. Liquidity and capital matters are reported regularly to the Board’s Risk Committee.  

The Balance Sheet.  

The Company monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its balance sheet on a regular basis. The Company’s balance sheet management process includes quarterly planning, business specific limits, monitoring of business specific usage versus limits, key metrics and new business impact assessments.  

The Company establishes balance sheet limits at the consolidated, business segment and business unit levels. The Company monitors balance sheet usage versus limits and variances resulting from business activity or market fluctuations are reviewed. On a regular basis, the Company reviews current performance versus limits and assesses the need to re-allocate limits based on business unit needs. The Company also monitors key metrics, including asset and liability size, composition of the balance sheet, limit utilization and capital usage.  

91  

Table of Contents 

The tables below summarize total assets for the Company’s business segments at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

92  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Cash and cash equivalents include Cash and due from banks and Interest bearing deposits with banks.  

 (2) These assets are included in secured financing assets (see “Secured Financing” herein).  

 (3) Other assets include Other investments; Premises, equipment and software costs; Goodwill; Intangible assets; and Other assets.  

 (4) Total assets include Global Liquidity Reserves of $182 billion at both December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011.  

A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from sales and trading activities in the Institutional Securities business segment. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in managing the size of its balance sheet. The Company’s total assets increased to $780,960 million at December 31, 2012 from $749,898 million at December 31, 2011. The increase in total assets was primarily due to an increase in Financial instruments—Corporate equities and Other sovereign government obligations, Loans, Receivables from customers and Securities available for sale, partially offset by a decrease in Financial instruments owned—Corporate and other debt, Derivatives and other contracts, and U.S. government and agency securities.  

The Company’s assets and liabilities are primarily related to transactions attributable to sales and trading and securities financing activities. At December 31, 2012, securities financing assets and liabilities were $348 billion and $300 billion, respectively. At December 31, 2011, securities financing assets and liabilities were $332 billion and $268 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements, repurchase and resale  

93  

Table of Contents 

 agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received and customer receivables and payables. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financings (see Notes 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements). Securities sold under agreements to repurchase and Securities loaned were $160 billion at December 31, 2012 and averaged $161 billion during 2012. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and Securities borrowed were $256 billion at December 31, 2012 and averaged $281 billion during 2012.  

Securities financing assets and liabilities also include matched book transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory positions. The customer receivable portion of the securities financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer-owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated in accordance with regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing transactions primarily includes customer payables to the Company’s prime brokerage customers. The Company’s risk exposure on these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company’s credit exposure to customers. Included within securities financing assets were $14 billion and $12 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, recorded in accordance with accounting guidance for the transfer of financial assets that represented offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.  

Liquidity Risk Management Framework.  

The primary goal of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework is to ensure that the Company has access to adequate funding across a wide range of market conditions. The framework is designed to enable the Company to fulfill its financial obligations and support the execution of the Company’s business strategies.  

The following principles guide the Company’s liquidity risk management framework:  

   •    Sufficient liquid assets should be maintained to cover maturing liabilities and other planned and contingent outflows;  

   •    Maturity profile of assets and liabilities should be aligned, with limited reliance on short-term funding;  

   •    Source, counterparty, currency, region, and term of funding should be diversified; and  

   •    Limited access to funding should be anticipated through the Contingency Funding Plan (“CFP”).  

The core components of the Company’s liquidity risk management framework are the CFP, Liquidity Stress Tests and the Global Liquidity Reserve (as defined below), which support the Company’s target liquidity profile.  

Contingency Funding Plan.  

The Company’s CFP describes the data and information flows, limits, targets, operating environment indicators, escalation procedures, roles and responsibilities, and available mitigating actions in the event of a liquidity stress. The CFP also sets forth the principal elements of the Company’s liquidity stress testing which identifies stress events of different severity and duration, assesses current funding sources and uses and establishes a plan for monitoring and managing a potential liquidity stress event.  

Liquidity Stress Tests.  

The Company uses Liquidity Stress Tests to model liquidity outflows across multiple scenarios over a range of time horizons. These scenarios contain various combinations of idiosyncratic and systemic stress events.  

94  

Table of Contents 

The assumptions underpinning the Liquidity Stress Tests include, but are not limited to, the following:  

   •    No government support;  

   •    No access to equity and unsecured debt markets;  

   •    Repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within the stress horizon;  

   •    Higher haircuts and significantly lower availability of secured funding;  

   •    Additional collateral that would be required by trading counterparties and certain exchanges and clearing organizations related to multi-notch credit rating downgrades;  

   •    Additional collateral that would be required due to collateral substitutions, collateral disputes and uncalled collateral;  

   •    Discretionary unsecured debt buybacks;  

   •    Drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties;  

   •    Client cash withdrawals and reduction in customer short positions that fund long positions;  

   •    Limited access to the foreign exchange swap markets;  

   •    Return of securities borrowed on an uncollateralized basis; and  

   •    Maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance.  

The Liquidity Stress Tests are produced for the Parent and major operating subsidiaries, as well as at major currency levels, to capture specific cash requirements and cash availability across the Company. The Liquidity Stress Tests assume that subsidiaries will use their own liquidity first to fund their obligations before drawing liquidity from the Parent. The Parent will support its subsidiaries and will not have access to subsidiaries’ liquidity reserves that are subject to any regulatory, legal or tax constraints.  

At December 31, 2012, the Company maintained sufficient liquidity to meet current and contingent funding obligations as modeled in its Liquidity Stress Tests.  

Global Liquidity Reserve.  

The Company maintains sufficient liquidity reserves (“Global Liquidity Reserve”) to cover daily funding needs and meet strategic liquidity targets sized by the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests. The size of the Global Liquidity Reserve is actively managed by the Company. The following components are considered in sizing the Global Liquidity Reserve: unsecured debt maturity profile, balance sheet size and composition, funding needs in a stressed environment inclusive of contingent cash outflows and collateral requirements and additional reserve, which is primarily a discretionary surplus based on the Company’s risk tolerance and is subject to change dependent on market and firm-specific events.  

The Global Liquidity Reserve is held within the Parent and major operating subsidiaries. The Global Liquidity Reserve is composed of diversified cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid unencumbered securities. Eligible unencumbered securities include U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency mortgage-backed securities, FDIC-guaranteed corporate debt, non-U.S. government securities and other highly liquid investment grade securities.  

95  

Table of Contents 

Global Liquidity Reserve by Type of Investment.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s Global Liquidity Reserve by type of investment:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Non-U.S. sovereign obligations are composed of unencumbered German, French, Dutch, U.K., Brazilian and Japanese government obligations.  

The ability to monetize assets during the start of a liquidity crisis is critical. The Company believes that the assets held in the Global Liquidity Reserve can be monetized within five business days in a stressed environment given the highly liquid and diversified nature of the reserves. The currency profile of the Global Liquidity Reserve is consistent with the CFP and Liquidity Stress Tests. In addition to the Global Liquidity Reserve, the Company has other cash and cash equivalents and other unencumbered assets that are available for monetization that are not included in the balances in the table above.  

Global Liquidity Reserve Held by Bank and Non-Bank Legal Entities.  

The table below summarizes the Global Liquidity Reserve held by bank and non-bank legal entities:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company calculates the average Global Liquidity Reserve based upon daily amounts.  

The Company is exposed to intra-day settlement risk in connection with liquidity provided to its major broker-dealer subsidiaries for intra-day clearing and settlement of its securities and financing activity.  

96  

Table of Contents 

Funding Management.  

The Company manages its funding in a manner that reduces the risk of disruption to the Company’s operations. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the Company’s liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed.  

The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources. These sources may include the Company’s equity capital, long-term debt, repurchase agreements, securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has active financing programs for both standard and structured products targeting global investors and currencies.  

Secured Financing. A substantial portion of the Company’s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term collateralized receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities business segment’s sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with flexibility in funding these assets with secured financing. The Company’s goal is to achieve an optimal mix of durable secured and unsecured financing. Secured financing investors principally focus on the quality of the eligible collateral posted. Accordingly, the Company actively manages its secured financing book based on the quality of the assets being funded. 

The Company utilizes shorter-term secured financing only for highly liquid assets and has established longer tenor limits for less liquid asset classes, for which funding may be at risk in the event of a market disruption. The Company defines highly liquid assets as that which is consistent with the standards of the Global Liquidity Reserve, and less liquid assets as that which does not meet those standards. At December 31, 2012, the weighted average maturity of the Company’s secured financing against less liquid assets was greater than 120 days. To further minimize the refinancing risk of secured financing for less liquid assets, the Company has established concentration limits to diversify its investor base and reduce the amount of monthly maturities for secured financing of less liquid assets. Furthermore, the Company obtains spare capacity, or term secured funding liabilities in excess of less liquid inventory, as an additional risk mitigant to replace maturing trades in the event that secured financing markets or our ability to access them become limited. Finally, in addition to the above risk management framework, the Company holds a portion of its Global Liquidity Reserve against the potential disruption to its secured financing capabilities.  

Unsecured Financing. The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding. Unencumbered securities and non-security assets are financed with a combination of long- and short-term debt and deposits. The Company’s unsecured financings include structured borrowings, whose payments and redemption values are based on the performance of certain underlying assets, including equity, credit, foreign exchange, interest rates and commodities. When appropriate, the Company may use derivative products to conduct asset and liability management and to make adjustments to the Company’s interest rate risk profile (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Short-Term Borrowings. The Company’s unsecured short-term borrowings consist of commercial paper, bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with maturities of 12 months or less at issuance.  

The table below summarizes the Company’s short-term unsecured borrowings:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

97  

Table of Contents 

 (1) At December 31, 2011, the majority of the commercial paper balance was issued as part of client transactions and was not used for the Company’s general funding purposes. During 2012, the client transactions matured, and the remaining balance at December 31, 2012 was used for the Company’s general funding purposes.  

Deposits. The Company’s bank subsidiaries’ funding sources include time deposits, money market deposit accounts, demand deposit accounts, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances. The vast majority of deposits in Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (the “Subsidiary Banks”) are sourced from the Company’s retail brokerage accounts and are considered to have stable, low-cost funding characteristics. The increase in deposits includes the inflows from the additional 14% stake in the Wealth Management JV in 2012 (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Wealth Management JV” herein).  

Deposits were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Total deposits subject to FDIC insurance at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 were $62 billion and $52 billion, respectively.  

 (2) Amounts include non-interest bearing deposits of $1,037 million and $1,270 million at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively.  

 (3) Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Long-Term Borrowings. The Company believes that accessing debt investors through multiple distribution channels helps ensure consistent access to the unsecured markets. In addition, the issuance of long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments (e.g., commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Long-term borrowings are generally structured to ensure staggered maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients across regions, currencies and product types. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume of certain trading and lending activities, the Company’s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.  

The Company may from time to time engage in various transactions in the credit markets (including, for example, debt retirements) that it believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors.  

Long-term borrowings at December 31, 2012 consisted of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

98  

Table of Contents 

Long-Term Borrowing Activity in 2012.  

During 2012, the Company issued and reissued notes with a principal amount of approximately $24 billion. In connection with the note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term LIBOR trading levels. The weighted average maturity of the Company’s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.3 years at December 31, 2012. During 2012, approximately $43 billion in aggregate long-term borrowings matured or were retired. On February 25, 2013, the Company issued $4.5 billion in senior unsecured debt.  

The Company issued $2.0 billion of 10 year subordinated debt in October 2012. This issuance represented the Company’s first subordinated debt issuance since 2004.  

At December 31, 2012, the aggregate outstanding carrying amount of the Company’s senior indebtedness was approximately $158 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries) compared with $176 billion at December 31, 2011. The decrease in the amount of senior indebtedness was primarily due to repayments of notes, net of new issuances in long-term borrowings.  

Credit Ratings.  

The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of financing generally is impacted by the Company’s credit ratings. In addition, the Company’s credit ratings can have an impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Issuer-specific factors that are important to the determination of the Company’s credit ratings include governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction and business mix. Additionally, the agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment and perceived levels of government support.  

The rating agencies have stated that they currently incorporate various degrees of credit rating uplift from external sources of potential support, as well as perceived government support of systemically important banks, including the credit ratings of the Company. Rating agencies continue to monitor the progress of U.S. financial reform legislation to assess whether the possibility of extraordinary government support for the financial system in any future financial crises is negatively impacted. Legislative and rulemaking outcomes may lead to reduced uplift assumptions for U.S. banks and thereby place downward pressure on credit ratings. At the same time, proposed U.S. financial reform legislation and attendant rulemaking also have positive implications for credit ratings such as higher standards for capital and liquidity levels. The net result on credit ratings and the timing of any change in rating agency assumptions on support is currently uncertain.  

At January 31, 2013, the Parent’s and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s senior unsecured ratings were as set forth below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

99  

Table of Contents 

 (1) On June 21, 2012, Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”) downgraded the ratings of 15 banks on review for downgrade in the context of a broad review of global banks with capital markets operations. The Parent’s long- and short-term debt ratings were lowered two notches to Baa1/P-2 from A2/P-1, and Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.’s long- and short-term debt ratings were lowered to A3/P-2 from A1/P-1. A Negative outlook was assigned to the Parent, and a Stable outlook was assigned to Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.  

 (2) On May 14, 2012, Rating and Investment Information, Inc. downgraded the Parent’s long-term rating one notch to A from A+.  

In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements where the Company is a liquidity provider to certain financing vehicles associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties or pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a future credit rating downgrade irrespective of whether the company is in a net asset or liability position. 

As noted in the table above, the long-term credit ratings on the Company by Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC (“S&P”) are currently at different levels (commonly referred to as “split ratings”). The table below shows the future potential collateral amounts that could be called by counterparties or exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of the following credit rating scenarios for Moody’s and S&P at December 31, 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

While certain aspects of a credit ratings downgrade are quantifiable pursuant to contractual provisions, the impact it will have on the Company’s business and results of operation in future periods is inherently uncertain and will depend on a number of interrelated factors, including, among others, the magnitude of the downgrade, individual client behavior and future mitigating actions the Company may take. The liquidity impact of additional collateral requirements is included in the Company’s Liquidity Stress Tests.  

Capital Management.  

The Company’s senior management views capital as an important source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, risks, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total capital, on a consolidated basis, at least equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries’ equity.  

At December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share repurchase program out of the $6 billion authorized by the Board of Directors in December 2006. The share repurchase program is for capital management purposes and considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. During 2012, the Company did not repurchase common stock as part of its capital management share repurchase program (see also “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” in Part II, Item 5).  

The Board of Directors determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In January 2013, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.05. In December 2012, the Company also announced that the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $255.56 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.25556) and a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock.  

100  

Table of Contents 

The following table sets forth the Company’s tangible common equity at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and average balances during 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company calculates its average balances based upon month-end balances.  

 (2) The goodwill and net intangible assets deduction exclude mortgage servicing rights (net of disallowable mortgage servicing rights) of $6 million and $120 million at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, and include only the Company’s share of the Wealth Management JV’s goodwill and intangible assets (see “Executive Summary—Significant Items—Wealth Management JV” herein for further information).  

 (3) Tangible common equity, a non-GAAP financial measure, equals common equity less goodwill and net intangible assets as defined above. The Company views tangible common equity as a useful measure to investors because it is a commonly utilized metric and reflects the common equity deployed in the Company’s businesses.  

Capital Covenants.  

In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital covenants in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the “Capital Securities”), which become effective after the scheduled redemption date in 2046. Under the terms of the replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenants, see the Company’s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.  

Regulatory Requirements.  

Capital.  

The Company is a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and is subject to the regulation and oversight of the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company’s compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Subsidiary Banks.  

The Company calculates its capital ratios and RWAs in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Federal Reserve. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. RWAs reflect both on and off-balance sheet risk of the Company. The risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the Company enhances its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and interpretations.  

101  

Table of Contents 

Market RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other factors. For a further discussion of the Company’s market risks and Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) model, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein. Market RWAs incorporate two components: general risk and specific risk. General and specific risk charges are computed using either the Company’s VaR model or Standardized Approach in accordance with regulatory requirements.  

Credit RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet its financial obligations. For a further discussion of the Company’s credit risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

Total allowable capital is composed of Tier 1 capital, which includes Tier 1 common capital, and Tier 2 capital. Under the Federal Reserve’s final rules regarding capital plans, Tier 1 common capital is calculated as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital. Non-common elements include perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, minority interests in subsidiaries, trust preferred securities and mandatory convertible preferred securities. Tier 1 capital consists predominantly of common shareholders’ equity as well as qualifying preferred stock and qualifying restricted core capital elements (qualifying trust preferred securities and noncontrolling interests) less goodwill, non-servicing intangible assets (excluding allowable mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year), an after-tax debt valuation adjustment and certain other deductions, including equity investments. The debt valuation adjustment in the below table represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain long-term and short-term borrowings that was attributable to the Company’s own instrument-specific credit spreads and is included in retained earnings. For a further discussion of fair value, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.  

At December 31, 2012, the Company was in compliance with Basel I capital requirements with ratios of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of 17.7% and total capital to RWAs of 18.5% (6% and 10% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes, respectively). The total capital to RWAs ratio reflects an increase of approximately 65 basis points that is the result of a $2 billion subordinated debt issuance by the Company in October 2012. See “Long-Term Borrowing Activity in 2012” for the detail of the subordinated debt issuance. The ratio of Tier 1 common capital to RWAs was 14.6% (5% being the minimum under the Federal Reserve’s Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) framework). Financial holding companies are subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Federal Reserve. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets, deferred tax assets and financial and non-financial equity investments). The adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for the year. At December 31, 2012, the Company was in compliance with this leverage restriction with a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 7.1% (5% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes).  

102  

Table of Contents 

The following table reconciles the Company’s total shareholders’ equity to Tier 1 common, Tier 1, Tier 2 and Total allowable capital as defined by the regulations issued by the Federal Reserve and presents the Company’s consolidated capital ratios at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The Company’s December 31, 2011 Tier 1 common capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and Total capital ratio were each reduced by approximately 30 basis points, and Tier 1 leverage ratio was reduced by approximately 20 basis points due to an approximate $1.2 billion deferred tax asset disallowance adjustment, which resulted in a reduction to the Company’s Tier 1 common capital, Tier 1 capital, Total capital, RWAs and adjusted average assets by such amount.  

 (2) Tier 1 common capital ratio equals Tier 1 common capital divided by RWAs. On December 30, 2011, the Federal Reserve formalized regulatory definitions for Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common capital ratio. The Federal Reserve defined Tier 1 common capital as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements in Tier 1 capital, including perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, minority interest in subsidiaries, trust preferred securities and mandatory convertible preferred securities. Previously, the Company’s definition of Tier 1 common capital included all of the items noted in the Federal Reserve’s definition, but it also included an adjustment for the portion of goodwill and non-servicing intangible assets associated with the Wealth Management JV’s noncontrolling interests (i.e., Citi’s share of the Wealth Management JV’s goodwill and intangibles). The Company’s conformance to the Federal Reserve’s definition under the final rule reduced its Tier 1 common capital and Tier 1 common ratio by approximately $4.2 billion and 132 basis points, respectively, at December 31, 2011.  

In November 2011 the Federal Reserve issued the final rule regarding capital plans, which requires large bank holding companies such as the Company to submit capital plans on an annual basis in order for the Federal Reserve to assess the companies’ systems and processes that incorporate forward-looking projections of revenues and losses to monitor and maintain their internal capital adequacy. The rule also requires that such companies receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before making a capital action. The Company received no  

103  

Table of Contents 

 objection to its 2012 capital plan, including the acquisition of an additional 14% of the Wealth Management JV, which was completed in September 2012, and ongoing payment of current common and preferred dividends.  

The Dodd-Frank Act imposes stress test requirements on large bank holding companies, including the Company. In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued its stress test final rule as required by the Dodd-Frank Act that requires the Company to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. The Company is required to publicly disclose the summary results of its company-run stress tests under the severely adverse economic scenario. The rule also subjects the Company to an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has announced that it will, by March 7, 2013 publish a summary of the supervisory stress test results of each company subject to the final rule, including the Company. In November 2012, the Federal Reserve issued instructions regarding the 2013 CCAR process to the 19 bank holding companies, including the Company, that became subject to the Federal Reserve’s final rule on November 15, 2012. The 2013 CCAR instructions described how the Federal Reserve’s CCAR capital planning process would be integrated with the stress test requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act. The Company submitted its 2013 capital plan to the Federal Reserve in January 2013.  

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires national banks and federal savings associations with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion to conduct an annual stress test. Beginning in 2013, the regulation requires national banks with more than $50 billion in average total consolidated assets, including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (“MSBNA”), to conduct its first stress test. MSBNA submitted its stress test results to the OCC and the Federal Reserve in January 2013.  

The Company’s public disclosure of the results of the stress tests is required to include, with respect to the severely adverse scenario, any changes in regulatory capital ratios of the Company and MSBNA and an explanation of the most significant causes for the changes in regulatory capital ratios.  

In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations incorporating the Basel II Accord, which requires internationally active U.S. banking organizations, as well as certain of their U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. In July 2010, the Company began reporting its capital adequacy standards on a parallel basis to its regulators under Basel I and Basel II as part of a phased implementation of Basel II.  

In June 2012, the U.S. banking regulators issued final rules that implement the Basel Committee’s revised market risk framework, referred to as “Basel 2.5,” which increases capital requirements for securitizations and correlation trading within the Company’s trading book. On January 1, 2013, the U.S. banking regulators’ rules to implement Basel 2.5 became effective. The Company’s risk-weighted assets will increase under the Basel 2.5 guidelines, and if such rules were applied as of December 31, 2012, they would have decreased the Company’s Tier 1 common capital ratio by approximately 400 basis points. The estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the Company, see “Risk Factors” in Part I Item 1A herein.  

In December 2010, the Basel Committee reached an agreement on Basel III. In June 2012, the U.S. banking regulators proposed rules to implement many aspects of Basel III (the “U.S. Basel III proposals”).  

The U.S. Basel III proposals contain new capital standards that raise the quality of capital, strengthen counterparty credit risk capital requirements, introduce a leverage ratio as a supplemental measure to the risk-based ratio and replace the use of externally developed credit ratings with alternatives such as internally developed credit ratings. The proposals include a new capital conservation buffer, which imposes a common equity Tier 1 capital requirement above the new minimum that can be depleted under stress, and could result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses under certain circumstances. The proposals also provide for a potential countercyclical buffer which regulators can activate during periods of excessive credit growth in their jurisdiction. Although the U.S. Basel III proposals do not address the Basel Committee’s new  

104  

Table of Contents 

 additional loss absorbency capital requirement for Global Systemically Important Banks (“G-SIBs”), such as the Company, the U.S. banking regulators indicated that guidance on the implementation of the Basel Committee’s G-SIB capital surcharge in the United States would be forthcoming. In November 2012, the Financial Stability Board provisionally assigned the Company a capital surcharge of 1.5 percent of common equity Tier 1 capital to RWA on a scale of 1.0 percent to 2.5 percent. The Financial Stability Board stated that it intends to update the G-SIB list annually based on new data. The U.S. Basel III proposals also propose amendments to the advanced approaches risk-based capital rule that change certain aspects of the treatment of counterparty credit risk under the Basel II framework and replace the use of externally developed credit ratings with proposed alternatives such as internally developed credit ratings. The U.S. Basel III proposals contemplate that the new capital requirements would be phased in over several years, beginning in 2013. In November 2012, the U.S. banking regulators announced that the U.S. Basel III proposals would not become effective on January 1, 2013. The announcement did not specify new implementation or phase-in dates for the U.S. Basel III proposals.  

In June 2011, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations implementing a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring that certain institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve, including the Company, be subject to minimum capital requirements that are not less than the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements. Currently, this minimum “capital floor” is based on Basel I. The U.S. Basel III proposals would replace the current Basel I-based “capital floor” with a standardized approach that, among other things, modifies the existing risk weights for certain types of asset classes.  

Pursuant to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, over time, trust preferred securities that meet Tier 2 capital eligibility criteria will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital but will qualify only as Tier 2 capital. This change in regulatory capital treatment will be phased in incrementally during a transition period that started on January 1, 2013 and will end on January 1, 2016. This provision of the Dodd-Frank Act accelerates the phasing out of trust preferred securities provided in Basel III.  

The Company estimates its RWAs based on a preliminary analysis of the Basel III guidelines published to date and other factors. The Company estimates its pro forma Tier 1 common capital ratio under Basel III to be approximately 9.5% as of December 31, 2012. This is a preliminary estimate assuming relevant advanced approach regulatory model approvals and may change based on final rules to be issued by the Federal Reserve. If the Company does not receive such model approvals, this could have a significant impact on the Company’s estimates. In addition, our estimate may not be comparable with that of other financial services firms given the final rules have not been issued and our estimate may be calculated differently from other financial services firms. The pro forma Tier 1 common capital ratio under Basel III is a non-GAAP financial measure that the Company considers to be a useful measure to the Company and investors to gauge future regulatory capital requirements. The pro forma Tier 1 common capital ratio estimate is based on shareholders’ equity, Tier 1 common capital and RWAs at December 31, 2012. This preliminary estimate is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially and should not be taken as a projection of what the Company’s capital ratios, RWAs, earnings or other results will actually be at these future dates. For a discussion of risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the Company, please see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A herein.  

Required Capital.  

The Company’s required capital (“Required Capital”) estimation is based on the Required Capital Framework, an internal capital adequacy measure. This framework is a risk-based internal use of capital measure, which is compared with the Company’s regulatory capital to help ensure the Company maintains an amount of risk-based going concern capital after absorbing potential losses from extreme stress events where applicable, at a point in time. The difference between the Company’s regulatory capital and aggregate Required Capital is Parent capital. Average Tier 1 common capital, aggregate Required Capital and Parent capital for 2012 were approximately $42.8 billion, $27.3 billion and $15.5 billion, respectively. The Company generally holds Parent capital for prospective regulatory requirements, organic growth, acquisitions and other capital needs.  

105  

Table of Contents 

Tier 1 common capital and common equity attribution to the business segments is based on capital usage calculated by the Required Capital Framework. In principle, each business segment is capitalized as if it were an independent operating entity with limited diversification benefit between the business segments. Required Capital is assessed at each business segment and further attributed to product lines. This process is intended to align capital with the risks in each business segment in order to allow senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis. The Required Capital Framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. The Company will continue to evaluate the framework with respect to the impact of future regulatory requirements, as appropriate.  

Beginning in the quarter ended March 31, 2012, the Company and segment Required Capital is met by Tier 1 common capital. Prior to the quarter ended March 31, 2012, the Company’s Required Capital was met by regulatory Tier 1 capital or Tier 1 common equity. Segment capital for prior periods has been recast under this framework.  

For a further discussion of the Company’s Tier 1 common capital, see “Capital” herein.  

The following table presents the business segments’ and Parent’s average Tier 1 common capital and average common equity for 2012 and 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company updated its Required Capital Framework methodology, with the regulatory changes becoming effective in 2013. As a result of this update to the Required Capital Framework methodology, and taking the estimated impact of Basel 2.5 into consideration, Parent capital is estimated to decrease by approximately $13 billion with a corresponding increase allocated to the business segments.  

Liquidity.  

The Basel Committee has developed two standards for supervisors to use in liquidity risk supervision. The first standard’s objective is to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks and bank holding companies. The Basel Committee developed the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) to ensure banks have sufficient high-quality liquid assets to cover net cash outflows arising from significant stress over 30 calendar days. The standard requires that the value of the ratio be no lower than 100%; the Company is compliant with this liquidity standard. The second standard’s objective is to promote resilience over a longer time horizon. The Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”) has a time horizon of one year and builds on traditional “net liquid asset” and “cash capital” methodologies used widely by internationally active banking organizations to provide a sustainable maturity structure of assets and liabilities. The NSFR is defined as the amount of available stable funding to the amount of required stable funding. This ratio must be greater than 100%. After an observation period that began in 2011, the LCR, including any revisions, will be introduced on January 1, 2015. The NSFR, including any revisions, will move to a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. The Company will continue to monitor the development of these standards, including any further calibration by the Basel Committee and their potential impact on the Company’s current liquidity and funding requirements.  

106  

Table of Contents 

In addition, in December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act’s systemic risk regime, including with respect to liquidity. The proposed rules would require systemically important financial institutions, such as the Company, to maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event, to conduct regular liquidity stress tests, and to implement various liquidity risk management requirements.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.  

The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities (“VIE”), primarily in connection with its Institutional Securities and Asset Management business segments.  

Institutional Securities Activities. The Company utilizes special purpose entities (“SPE”) primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in securitized financial assets were approximately $3.2 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, substantially all of which were related to U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. For further information about the Company’s securitization activities, see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.  

The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements).  

Asset Management Activities. As a general partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives distributions from the partnerships according to the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations. These amounts are noted in the table below under “General partner guarantees”.  

Guarantees. The Company discloses information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. Guarantees are defined as contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Guarantees are also defined as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity’s failure to perform under an agreement as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.  

107  

Table of Contents 

The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company’s obligations under guarantee arrangements at December 31, 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts, see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (2) Approximately $2.0 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the “Commitments” table below in primary and secondary lending commitments. Standby letters of credit are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition.  

 (3) Amounts include guarantees issued by consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company of approximately $113 million. These guarantees relate to obligations of the fund’s investee entities, including guarantees related to capital expenditures and principal and interest debt payments. Accrued losses under these guarantees of approximately $4 million are reflected as a reduction of the carrying value of the related fund investments, which are reflected in Financial instruments owned—Investments on the consolidated statements of financial condition.  

In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements.  

See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for information on other guarantees and indemnities.  

Commitments and Contractual Obligations.  

The Company’s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending at December 31, 2012 are summarized below by period of expiration.  

108  

Table of Contents 

 Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) This amount includes $35.3 billion of investment grade and $8.4 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for investment and $1.4 billion of investment grade and $2.3 billion of non-investment grade unfunded commitments accounted for as held for sale at December 31, 2012. The remainder of these lending commitments is carried at fair value.  

 (2) These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).  

 (3) The Company enters into forward starting reverse repurchase and securities borrowing agreements (agreements that have a trade date at or prior to December 31, 2012 and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations. These agreements primarily settle within three business days and of the total amount at December 31, 2012, $40.0 billion settled within three business days.  

 (4) The Company also has a contingent obligation to provide financing to a clearinghouse through which it clears certain transactions. The financing is required only upon the default of a clearinghouse member. The financing takes the form of a reverse repurchase facility, with a maximum amount of approximately $2.3 billion.  

The above table does not include the Company’s commitment to purchase an additional 35% of the Wealth Management JV for $4.725 billion upon obtaining all regulatory approvals (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).  

For further description of these commitments, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations include long-term borrowings, other secured financings, contractual interest payments, contractual payments on time deposits, operating leases, purchase obligations and expected  

109  

Table of Contents 

 contributions for pension and postretirement plans. The Company’s future cash payments associated with certain of its obligations at December 31, 2012 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Amounts presented for Other secured financings are financings with original maturities greater than one year.  

 (2) Amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings based on applicable interest rates at December 31, 2012. Amounts include stated coupon rates, if any, on structured or index-linked notes.  

 (3) Amounts represent contractual principal and interest payments related to time deposits primarily held at the Subsidiary Banks.  

 (4) See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (5) Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, printing, computer and telecommunications maintenance agreements, certain license agreements related to Wealth Management JV, and certain transmission, transportation and storage contracts related to the commodities business. Purchase obligations at December 31, 2012 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company’s consolidated statement of financial condition.  

 (6) See Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 (7) Amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time (see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements for further information).  

Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.  

The Company’s assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation. Inflation may result in increases in the Company’s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Company’s financial position and profitability.  

A significant portion of the Company’s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can, therefore, affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these fluctuations on the Company’s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.  

110  

Table of Contents 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.