Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Liquidity and Funding Risk.  

Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that we will be unable to finance our operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating our assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses our ability to meet our financial obligations without experiencing significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten our viability as a going concern. For more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.  

Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be negatively affected by our inability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, including concerns regarding the European sovereign debt crisis or fiscal matters in the U.S., could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if investors or lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects due to factors such as if we were to incur large trading losses, are downgraded by the rating agencies, suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, or if regulatory authorities take significant action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  

Global markets and economic conditions have been negatively impacted by the European sovereign debt crisis. The continued uncertainty over the outcome of the E.U. governments’ financial support programs and the possibility that other E.U. member states may experience similar financial troubles could further disrupt global markets. In particular, it has and could in the future disrupt equity markets and result in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of E.U. members. These factors, or market perceptions concerning such matters, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and liquidity. In particular, in connection with certain of our Institutional Securities business segment activities, we have exposure to European peripheral countries, which are defined as exposures in Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain (the “European Peripherals”). At December 31, 2012, exposure before hedges to the European Peripherals was approximately $7,590 million and net exposure after hedges was approximately $6,346 million. Exposure includes obligations from sovereign governments, corporations, and financial institutions. In addition, at December 31, 2012, we had European Peripherals exposure for overnight deposits with banks of approximately $81 million. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk—Credit Risk—Country Risk Exposure—Select European Countries” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

Our borrowing costs and access to the debt capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.  

The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are impacted by our short-term and long-term credit ratings. The rating agencies are continuing to monitor certain issuer specific factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings including governance, the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, funding and liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality, strategic direction, and business mix. Additionally, the rating agencies will look at other industry-wide factors such as regulatory or legislative changes, macro-economic environment, and perceived levels of government support, and it is possible that they could downgrade our ratings and those of similar institutions. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Ratings” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Our credit ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is a key consideration, such as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide additional collateral to, or immediately settle any outstanding liability balance with, certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. Termination of our trading and other agreements could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. Our long-term credit ratings by Moody’s Investor Services, Inc (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC (“S&P”) are currently at different levels (commonly referred to as “split ratings”). At December 31, 2012, the amounts of future potential collateral amounts that could be called by counterparties under the terms of such OTC trading agreements and other agreements in the event of a downgrade of our long-term credit rating under various scenarios for Moody’s and S&P were as follows: $472 million (Baa1 Moody’s/BBB+ S&P); $2,556 million (Baa2 Moody’s/BBB S&P); and $3,574 million (Baa3 Moody’s/BBB- S&P). In addition, we are required to pledge additional collateral to certain exchanges and clearing organizations in the event of a credit rating downgrade. At December 31, 2012, the increased collateral requirement at certain exchanges and clearing organizations under various scenarios was zero (Baa1 Moody’s/BBB+ S&P); zero (Baa2 Moody’s/BBB S&P); and $128 million (Baa3 Moody’s/BBB- S&P).  

We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.  

The parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on its obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory, tax restrictions or elections and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain circumstances. These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase our stock. The OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank company subsidiaries.  

Our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely affected by U.S. and international markets and economic conditions.  

Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy. Global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile in the last several years and continue to be, including as a result of the European sovereign debt crisis, and uncertainty regarding U.S. fiscal matters. In particular, our cost and availability of funding have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Continued turbulence in the U.S., the E.U. and other international markets and economies could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.  

Market Risk.  

Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities (the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. For more information on how we monitor and manage market risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by global and economic conditions and other factors.  

Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to global and economic conditions and other factors. Our results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors, including the effect of economic and political conditions and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income, credit and commodities markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate markets; the impact of current, pending and future legislation (including the Dodd-Frank Act), regulation (including capital, leverage and liquidity requirements), and legal actions in the U.S. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to our unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor, consumer and business sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the performance of our acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances or other strategic arrangements (including the Wealth Management Joint Venture and with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (“MUFG”)); our reputation; inflation, natural disasters, and acts of war or terrorism; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors, as well as governments, regulators and self-regulatory organizations; the effectiveness of our risk management policies; and technological changes; or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses are likely to increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.  

The results of our Institutional Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. Fluctuations also occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. During periods of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Global Wealth Management Group business segment. In addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management business segment.  

We may experience declines in the value of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions.  

Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities, particularly during periods of market displacement. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time of any sales and settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any of these factors could cause a decline in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.  

In addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades.  

22  

Table of Contents 

 Our risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. However, severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, as seen in the last several years, and we could realize significant losses if extreme market events were to occur.  

Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses.  

Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. We commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers in a particular industry, country or region.  

We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector.  

We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets.  

We also originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. Further, we securitize and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector. In connection with these activities, we have provided, or otherwise agreed to be responsible for, certain representations and warranties. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to repurchase such assets or make other payments related to such assets if such representations and warranties were breached. Between 2004 and December 31, 2012, we sponsored approximately $148 billion of residential mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS”) primarily containing U.S. residential loans. Of that amount, we made representations and warranties concerning approximately $47 billion of loans and agreed to be responsible for the representations and warranties made by third-party sellers, many of which are now insolvent, on approximately $21 billion of loans. At December 31, 2012, the current unpaid principal balance (“UPB”) for all the residential assets subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $20.1 billion and the cumulative losses associated with U.S. RMBS were approximately $12.3 billion. We did not make, or otherwise agree to be responsible, for the representations and warranties made by third party sellers on approximately $80 billion of residential loans that we securitized during that time period. We have not sponsored any U.S. RMBS transactions since 2007.  

We have also made representations and warranties in connection with our role as an originator of certain commercial mortgage loans that we securitized in commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”). Between 2004 and December 31, 2012, we originated approximately $45 billion and $21 billion of U.S. and non-U.S. commercial mortgage loans, respectively, that were placed into CMBS sponsored by us. At December 31, 2012, the current UPB for all U.S. commercial mortgage loans subject to such representations and warranties was $33.2 billion. At December 31, 2012, the current UPB when known for all non-U.S. commercial mortgage loans, subject to such representations and warranties was approximately $6.3 billion and the UPB at the time of sale when the current UPB is not known was $0.4 billion.  

Over the last several years, the level of litigation and investigatory activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis-related matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future. We continue to monitor our real estate-related activities in order to manage our exposures and potential liability from these markets and businesses. See “Legal Proceedings—Residential Mortgage and Credit Crisis Related Matters” in Part I, Item 3 herein.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Credit Risk.  

Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or issuer does not meet its financial obligations. For more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk—Risk Management—Credit Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

We are exposed to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.  

We incur significant credit risk exposure through the Institutional Securities business segment. This risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties; and investing and trading in securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans.  

We also incur credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment lending to individual investors, including, but not limited to, margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit.  

While we believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that continued difficult economic conditions may further negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. In addition, as a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.  

A default by another large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally.  

The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. See also “Systemic Risk Regime” under “Business—Supervision and Regulation—Financial Holding Company” in Part I, Item 1 herein.  

Operational Risk.  

Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm’s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources and systems or from external events (e.g., fraud, legal and compliance risks or damage to physical assets). We may incur operational risk across the full scope of our business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and control groups (e.g., information technology and trade processing). Legal, regulatory and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under “Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk.” For more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Operational Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

We are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our businesses.  

Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. We perform the functions required to operate our different businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by unaffiliated third parties to process a high volume of transactions.  

24  

Table of Contents 

We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party’s systems or improper or unauthorized action by third parties or our employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation.  

Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems. Like other financial services firms, we have been and continue to be subject to unauthorized access, mishandling or misuse, computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other events. Events such as these could have a security impact on our systems and jeopardize our or our clients’ or counterparties’ personal, confidential, proprietary or other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems. Furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients’, our counterparties’ or third parties’ operations, which could result in reputational damage, litigation or regulatory fines or penalties not covered by insurance maintained by us, and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, catastrophic events, electrical, environmental, communications or other services we use, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.  

Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk.  

Legal, regulatory and compliance risk includes the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements and standards or litigation. Legal, regulatory and compliance risk also includes contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty’s performance obligations will be unenforceable. In today’s environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a component of legal, regulatory and compliance risk. For more information on how we monitor and manage legal, regulatory and compliance risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes that will impact our business.  

Like other major financial services firms, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. These laws and regulations significantly affect the way we do business, and can restrict the scope of our existing businesses and limit our ability to expand our product offerings and pursue certain investments.  

In response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, have adopted, or are currently considering enacting, financial market reforms that have resulted and could result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. In particular, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and any plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime that will impose heightened capital and liquidity requirements to new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by the Volcker Rule, and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. While certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, other portions will be effective following extended transition periods or through numerous rule makings by multiple government agencies, and only a portion of those rulemakings have been completed. Many of the changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act could in the future materially impact the profitability of our businesses and the value of assets we hold, expose us to  

25  

Table of Contents 

 additional costs, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. While there continues to be uncertainty about the full impact of these changes, we do know that the Company will be subject to a more complex regulatory framework, and will incur costs to comply with new requirements as well as to monitor for compliance in the future.  

For example, the Volcker Rule provision of the Dodd-Frank Act will have an impact on us, including potentially limiting various aspects of our business. Although the Volcker Rule became effective on July 21, 2012, compliance is not required until July 21, 2014, subject to possible extensions. U.S. regulators issued proposed regulations to implement the Volcker Rule in 2011 but have not yet issued final regulations. There remains considerable uncertainty about what the final version of those regulations will be or the impact they may have on our businesses. Even after the final rules are issued, there may be continued uncertainty regarding their interpretation and impact on our businesses. We are closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the Volcker Rule, and when the regulations are final, we will complete a review of our relevant activities and make plans to implement compliance with the Volcker Rule.  

The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and legal liability.  

As a global financial services firm, we face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in all countries in which we conduct our business. Interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. Significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides compensation to whistleblowers who present the SEC or CFTC with information related to securities or commodities laws violations that leads to a successful enforcement action. As a result of this compensation, it is possible we could face an increased number of investigations by the SEC or CFTC.  

We have been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or other results adverse to us. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. Like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information.  

Substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business. For example, recently, the level of litigation activity focused on residential mortgage and credit crisis related matters has increased materially in the financial services industry. As a result, we have been and expect that we may continue to become, the subject of increased claims for damages and other relief regarding residential mortgages and related securities in the future and there can be no assurance that additional material losses will not be incurred from residential mortgage claims that have not yet been notified to us or are not yet determined to be material. For more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 herein.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies.  

We are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted by regulatory authorities and bodies of the U.S. and other governments. For example, the actions of the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to predict.  

Our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.  

In connection with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. In addition, we are an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and own electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe; we own TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we own a minority interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services. As a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations. In addition, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Further, through these activities we are exposed to regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. Our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations.  

Although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected by these events.  

We continue to engage in discussions with the Federal Reserve regarding our commodities activities, as the BHC Act provides a grandfather exemption for “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,” provided that we were engaged in “any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States” and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. If the Federal Reserve were to determine that any of our commodities activities did not qualify for the BHC Act grandfather exemption, then we would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the BHC Act by the end of any extensions of the grace period. See also “Scope of Permitted Activities” under “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 herein.  

We also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. During the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. For example, the U.S. and the E.U. have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and  

27  

Table of Contents 

 liquid hydrocarbons trading. In addition, new regulation of OTC derivatives markets in the U.S. and similar legislation proposed or adopted abroad will impose significant new costs and impose new requirements on our commodities derivatives activities. We may incur substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties.  

A failure to address conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses and reputation.  

As a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. For example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between us and a client, among clients, or between an employee on the one hand and us or a client on the other. We have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. However, identifying and mitigating potential conflicts of interest can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. It is possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses and reputation.  

Our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including through detailed examinations of specific transactions. In addition, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the Federal Reserve subjects us to direct Federal Reserve scrutiny with respect to transactions between our U.S. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates.  

Risk Management.  

Our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.  

We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. Nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk, including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. For example, market conditions over the last several years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical information to manage risk. Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal, regulatory and compliance risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Our trading risk management strategies and techniques also seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the timing of such outcomes. We may, therefore, incur losses in the course of our trading activities. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Risk Management—Market Risk” in Part II, Item 7A herein.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Competitive Environment.  

We face strong competition from other financial services firms, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.  

The financial services industry and all aspects of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services, innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. Such changes could result in our remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. We have experienced and may continue to experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices. In addition, certain of our competitors may be subject to different, and in some cases, less stringent, legal and regulatory regimes, than we are, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see “Business—Competition” and “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 herein.  

Automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition.   

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions or comparable fees. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue and will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading models. We have experienced and it is likely that we will continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.  

Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.  

Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The financial industry has and may continue to experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, including limitations relating to incentive-based compensation, clawback requirements and special taxation, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees.  

International Risk.  

We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways.  

We are subject to political, economic, legal, tax, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, increased taxes and levies and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the  

29  

Table of Contents 

 outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in all cases.  

Various emerging market countries have experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or potential defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. Crime and corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally.  

The emergence of a disease pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency as well as natural disasters, terrorist activities or military actions, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our ability to manage our businesses around the world.  

As a U.S. company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by OFAC and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide, as well as applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A violation of a sanction, embargo program, or anti-corruption law, could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties.  

Acquisition and Joint Venture Risk.  

We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances.  

In connection with past or future acquisitions, joint ventures (including the Wealth Management Joint Venture) or strategic alliances (including with MUFG), we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with clients, trading counterparties and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control.  

For example, the ownership arrangements relating to the Company’s joint venture in Japan with MUFG of their respective investment banking and securities businesses are complex. MUFG and the Company have integrated their respective Japanese securities businesses by forming two joint venture companies, MUMSS and MSMS. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other Matters—Japanese Securities Joint Venture” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any of our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the relevant joint venture.  

There is no assurance that any of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.  

Certain of our business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may expose us to new asset classes and new markets. These business activities expose us to new and  

30  

Table of Contents 

 enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.  

For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also “Business—Supervision and Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 herein.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

The Company, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There are no comments that remain unresolved that the Company received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that the Company believes are material.  

31  

Table of Contents 

 Item 2. Properties.