Part I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Overview.  

Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. The Company is a financial holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). The Company conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. At December 31, 2012, the Company had 57,061 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Financial information concerning the Company, its business segments and geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2012 (“2012”), December 31, 2011 (“2011”) and December 31, 2010 (“2010”) is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.  

Available Information.  

The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may read and copy any document the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that issuers (including the Company) file electronically with the SEC. The Company’s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC’s internet site, www.sec.gov.   

The Company’s internet site is www.morganstanley.com. You can access the Company’s Investor Relations webpage at www.morganstanley.com/about/ir. The Company makes available free of charge, on or through its Investor Relations webpage, its proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Company also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC’s internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of the Company’s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.  

You can access information about the Company’s corporate governance at www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance. The Company’s Corporate Governance webpage includes the Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; Amended and Restated Bylaws; charters for its Audit Committee; Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee; Nominating and Governance Committee; Operations and Technology Committee; and Risk Committee; Corporate Governance Policies; Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors; Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders; Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions; Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan; Code of Ethics and Business Conduct; Code of Conduct; and Integrity Hotline information.  

Morgan Stanley’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Financial Officer and Controller.  

    1      

Table of Contents 

 The Company will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on the Company’s internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

Business Segments.  

The Company is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments—Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management.  

Institutional Securities.  

The Company provides financial advisory and capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (“MS&Co.”), Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited, and certain joint venture entities that include Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. (“MSMS”) and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (“MUMSS”). The Company, primarily through these entities, also conducts sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and provides related financing services on behalf of institutional investors.  

Investment Banking and Corporate Lending Activities.  

Capital Raising. The Company manages and participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. The Company is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities and American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”). The Company is also a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities, tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities.  

Financial Advisory Services. The Company provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, corporate restructurings, recapitalizations, spin-offs, exchange offers and leveraged buyouts and takeover defenses as well as shareholder relations. The Company also provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and financial planning. In addition, the Company furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.  

Corporate Lending. The Company provides loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing, to select corporate clients through its subsidiaries, including Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A (“MSBNA”). These loans and lending commitments have varying terms; may be senior or subordinated; may be secured or unsecured; are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the Company. The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.  

Sales and Trading Activities.  

The Company conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter (“OTC”) markets around the world. The Company’s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities comprise Equity Trading; Fixed Income and Commodities; Clients and Services; Research; and Investments.  

      2    

Table of Contents 

Equity Trading. The Company acts as principal (including as a market-maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.  

The Company’s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making activities cover equity-related products globally, including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. The Company also issues and makes a principal market in equity-linked products to institutional and individual investors.  

Fixed Income and Commodities. The Company trades, invests and makes markets in fixed income securities and related products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt, bank loans, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt obligations, credit, currency, interest rate and other fixed income-linked notes, securities issued by structured investment vehicles, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate-loan products, municipal securities, preferred stock and commercial paper, money-market and other short-term securities. The Company is a primary dealer of U.S. federal government securities and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. The Company is also a primary dealer or market-maker of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market countries.  

The Company trades, invests and makes markets globally in listed futures and OTC cleared and uncleared swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products.  

The Company trades, invests and makes markets in major foreign currencies, such as the British pound, Canadian dollar, euro, Japanese yen and Swiss franc, as well as in emerging markets currencies. The Company trades these currencies on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets.  

Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, the Company acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. The Company also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan products and other securitizable asset classes. In addition, the Company engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers.  

The Company advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and tax planning. The Company structures debt securities, derivatives and other instruments with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.  

The Company trades, invests and makes markets in the spot, forward, derivatives and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. The Company trades and is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations and monetization. The Company is an electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns electricity-generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.  

The Company owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and owns a minority interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.  

    3      

Table of Contents 

Clients and Services. The Company provides financing services, including prime brokerage, which offers, among other services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. In addition, the Company’s institutional distribution and sales activities are overseen and coordinated through Clients and Services.  

Research. The Company’s research department (“Research”) coordinates globally across all of the Company’s businesses and consists of economists, strategists and industry analysts who engage in equity and fixed income research activities and produce reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual companies and industry developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside the U.S.; provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary developments that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends; and provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are traded and data are disseminated to investors through third-party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Linksm and Matrixsm, and the Company’s global representatives.  

Investments. The Company from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or other investing activities. Such investments are typically strategic investments undertaken by the Company to facilitate core business activities. From time to time, the Company may also make investments and capital commitments to public and private companies, funds and other entities.  

The Company sponsors and manages investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, infrastructure, mezzanine lending and real estate-related and other alternative investments. The Company may also invest in and provide capital to such investment vehicles. See also “Asset Management” herein.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform required to support Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This is done for listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world. This activity is undertaken through the Company’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Global Wealth Management Group.  

The Company’s Global Wealth Management Group business segment, which includes the Company’s 65% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC (the “Wealth Management Joint Venture” or “Wealth Management JV”), provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of more than 16,700 global representatives in 712 locations at year-end. As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s Global Wealth Management Group had $1,776 billion in client assets.  

Clients.  

Global Wealth Management Group professionals serve individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Global representatives are located in branches across the U.S. and provide solutions designed to accommodate the individual investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs of investors residing in and outside the U.S. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside of the U.S., Global Wealth Management Group has offices in Australia, Hong Kong, the European Union (“E.U.”), India, the Middle East, Singapore and Switzerland.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Products and Services.  

The Global Wealth Management Group provides clients with a comprehensive array of financial solutions, including products and services from the Company, Citigroup Inc. (“Citi”) and third-party providers, such as insurance companies and mutual fund families. Global Wealth Management Group provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various types of investments, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual funds, structured products, alternative investments, unit investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset allocation programs. Global Wealth Management Group also engages in fixed income principal trading, which primarily facilitates clients’ trading or investments in such securities. In addition, Global Wealth Management Group offers education savings programs, financial and wealth planning services, and annuity and other insurance products.  

In addition, Global Wealth Management Group offers its clients access to several cash management services through various banks and other third parties, including deposits, debit cards, electronic bill payments and check writing, as well as lending products through affiliates such as Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (“MS Private Bank”) and MSBNA, including securities based lending, mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. Global Wealth Management Group also provides trust and fiduciary services, offers access to cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small- and medium-sized businesses in the U.S., and provides individual and corporate retirement solutions, including individual retirement accounts and 401(k) plans and U.S. and global stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses.  

Global Wealth Management Group provides clients a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

The operations and technology supporting the Wealth Management Joint Venture is provided by a combination of the Company and the Wealth Management Joint Venture’s Operations and Information Technology departments. Pursuant to contractual agreements, the Company and the Wealth Management Joint Venture perform various broker-dealer related functions, such as execution and clearing of brokerage transactions, margin lending and custody of client assets. For the Company and the Wealth Management Joint Venture, these activities are undertaken through their own facilities, through memberships in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties. Although Citi no longer provides support for broker-dealer related clearing functions, Citi continues to provide certain other services and systems to support the Global Wealth Management Group through transition services agreements with the Wealth Management Joint Venture.  

Asset Management.  

The Company’s Asset Management business segment, consisting of Merchant Banking, Traditional Asset Management and Real Estate Investing activities, is one of the largest global investment management organizations of any full-service financial services firm and offers clients a broad array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. Portfolio managers located in the U.S., Europe and Asia manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity and fixed income strategies, alternative investment and merchant banking products in developed and emerging markets across geographies and market cap ranges.  

The Company offers a range of alternative investment, real estate investing and merchant banking products for institutional investors and high net worth individuals. The Company’s alternative investments platform includes funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity and real estate funds and portable alpha strategies. The Company’s alternative investments platform also includes minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners, Avenue Capital Group and  

5  

Table of Contents 

 Traxis Partners LP. The Company’s real estate and merchant banking businesses include its real estate investing business, private equity funds, corporate mezzanine debt investing group and infrastructure investing group. The Company typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its alternative investment, real estate and merchant banking funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.  

Institutional Investors.  

The Company provides investment management strategies and products to institutional investors worldwide, including corporations, pension plans, endowments, foundations, sovereign wealth funds, insurance companies and banks through a broad range of pooled vehicles and separate accounts. Additionally, the Company provides sub-advisory services to various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A Global Sales and Client Service team is engaged in business development and relationship management for consultants to help serve institutional clients.  

Intermediary Clients and Individual Investors.  

The Company offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies, financial planners and other intermediaries. Closed-end funds managed by the Company are available to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. The Company also distributes mutual funds through numerous retirement plan platforms. Internationally, the Company distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors and distributes alternative investment products through affiliated broker-dealers and banks.  

Operations and Information Technology.  

The Company’s Operations and Information Technology departments provide or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its Asset Management business segment. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and certain fiduciary services on behalf of institutional, intermediary and high net worth clients. These activities are undertaken through the Company’s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.  

Competition.  

All aspects of the Company’s businesses are highly competitive, and the Company expects them to remain so. The Company competes in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. The Company’s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality and consistency of its long-term investment performance. The Company’s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. The Company competes with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have left businesses, been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. Such changes could result in the Company’s remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity, or new competitors may emerge. See also “—Supervision and Regulation” below and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A herein.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

The Company’s competitive position for its Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group business segments depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. The Company competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis.  

The Company’s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by the Company’s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients may request that the Company provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to increase in the future.  

It is possible that competition may become even more intense as the Company continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure in its businesses. The complementary trends in the financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for the Company to remain competitive. In addition, the Company’s business is subject to increased regulation in the U.S. and abroad, while certain of its competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the Company, thereby putting the Company at a competitive disadvantage.  

The Company has experienced intense price competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions or comparable fees. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional markets move to more automated trading models. It is possible that the Company will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing).  

Asset Management.   

Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including the Company’s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. The Company’s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and hedge funds, compete with similar products offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers, who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than the Company.  

Supervision and Regulation.  

As a major financial services firm, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it conducts its business. Moreover, in response to the 2007–2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and around the world, are in the process of adopting and implementing a wide range of reforms that will result in major changes to the way the Company is regulated and conducts its business. It will take time for the comprehensive effects of these reforms to emerge and be understood.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Regulatory Outlook.  

The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted on July 21, 2010. While certain portions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective immediately, other portions will be effective following extended transition periods or through numerous rulemakings by multiple governmental agencies, and only a portion of those rulemakings have been completed. It remains difficult to assess fully the impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on the Company and on the financial services industry generally. In addition, various international developments, such as the adoption of risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, known as “Basel III,” will continue to impact the Company in the coming years.  

It is likely that 2013 and subsequent years will see further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which the Company operates, although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period.  

Financial Holding Company.  

The Company has operated as a bank holding company and financial holding company under the BHC Act since September 2008.  

Consolidated Supervision.  

As a bank holding company, the Company is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve also gained heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of the Company’s subsidiaries. In particular, as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company is, or will become, subject to (among other things) significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision, to more intensive scrutiny of its businesses and plans for expansion of those businesses, to new activities limitations, to a systemic risk regime which will impose heightened capital and liquidity requirements, to new restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the BHC Act added by the Dodd-Frank Act referred to as the “Volcker Rule” and to comprehensive new derivatives regulation. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable.  

Scope of Permitted Activities. The BHC Act provides a two-year period from September 21, 2008, the date that the Company became a bank holding company, for the Company to conform or dispose of certain nonconforming activities as defined by the BHC Act. Three one-year extensions may be granted by the Federal Reserve upon approval of the Company’s application for each extension. The Company has received the third of these extensions with respect to certain activities relating to its real estate and other funds businesses. It has also disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed certain activities to the requirements of the BHC Act. The Company expects to have conformed or sold its remaining nonconforming real estate fund businesses by the September 21, 2013 deadline and does not believe that such conformance or divestiture will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition.  

In addition, the Company continues to engage in discussions with the Federal Reserve regarding its commodities activities, as the BHC Act also grandfathers “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,” provided that the Company was engaged in “any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States” and provided that certain other conditions that are within the Company’s reasonable control are satisfied. If the Federal Reserve were to determine that any of the Company’s commodities activities did not qualify for the BHC Act grandfather exemption, then the Company would likely be required to divest any such activities that did not otherwise conform to the BHC Act by the end of any extensions of the grace period. At this time, the Company does not believe, based on its interpretation of applicable law, that any such required divestment would have a material adverse impact on its financial condition.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule will, over time, prohibit “banking entities,” including the Company and its affiliates, from engaging in “proprietary trading,” as defined by the regulators. The Volcker Rule will also require banking entities to either restructure or unwind certain investments and relationships with “hedge funds,” “private equity funds” and other “similar funds” as such terms are defined in the Volcker Rule and by the regulators.  

The Volcker Rule became effective on July 21, 2012. However, banking entities have until July 21, 2014 to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker Rule, subject to possible extensions. U.S. regulators issued proposed rules to implement the Volcker Rule in 2011 and have not yet issued final regulations. There remains considerable uncertainty about what the final version of those regulations will be or the impact they may have on our businesses. Even after the final rules are issued, there may be continued uncertainty regarding their interpretation and impact on our businesses. The Company is closely monitoring regulatory developments related to the Volcker Rule, and when the regulations are final, it will complete a review of its relevant activities and make plans to implement compliance with the Volcker Rule.  

The Company continues to review its private equity fund, hedge fund and trading operations in relation to the Volcker Rule. With respect to the “proprietary trading” prohibition of the Volcker Rule, as of January 1, 2013, the Company has divested control of its remaining in-house proprietary quantitative trading unit, Process-Driven Trading (“PDT”). For the year ended December 31, 2012, PDT did not have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. The Company has also previously exited other standalone proprietary trading businesses (defined as those businesses dedicated solely to investing the Company’s capital), and the Company is continuing to liquidate legacy positions related to those businesses.  

Capital and Liquidity Standards. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for the Company and evaluates its compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the Company’s national bank subsidiaries. Under current capital requirements, for the Company to remain a financial holding company, its national bank subsidiaries must qualify as “well capitalized” by maintaining a total capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 10% and a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%. To maintain its status as a financial holding company, the Company is also required to be “well capitalized” by maintaining these capital ratios. The Federal Reserve may require the Company and its peer financial holding companies to maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. In addition, under the Federal Reserve’s leverage capital rules, bank holding companies that have implemented the Federal Reserve’s risk-based capital measure for market risk, such as the Company, are subject to a Tier 1 minimum leverage ratio (Tier 1 capital to average total consolidated assets) of 3%.  

The Company calculates its capital ratios and risk-weighted assets in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Federal Reserve. These standards are based upon a framework described in the “International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,” July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations incorporating the Basel II Accord, which requires internationally active U.S. banking organizations, as well as certain of their U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. In July 2010, the Company began reporting its capital adequacy standards on a parallel basis to its regulators under Basel I and Basel II as part of a phased implementation of Basel II. On January 1, 2013, the U.S. banking regulators’ rules to implement the Basel Committee’s market risk capital framework, referred to as “Basel 2.5,” became effective.  

In December 2010, the Basel Committee reached an agreement on Basel III. In June 2012, the U.S. banking regulators proposed rules to implement many aspects of Basel III (the “Basel III proposals”). The U.S. Basel III proposals contain new capital standards that raise the quality of capital, strengthen counterparty credit risk capital requirements, introduce a leverage ratio as a supplemental measure to the risk-based ratio and replace the use of  

9  

Table of Contents 

 externally developed credit ratings with alternatives such as internally developed credit ratings. The proposals include a new capital conservation buffer, which imposes a common equity Tier 1 capital requirement above the new minimum that can be depleted under stress, and could result in restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses under certain circumstances. The proposals also provide for a potential countercyclical buffer which regulators can activate during periods of excessive credit growth in their jurisdiction. Although the U.S. Basel III proposals do not address the Basel Committee’s new additional loss absorbency capital requirement for Global Systemically Important Banks (“G-SIBs”), such as the Company, the U.S. banking regulators indicated that guidance on the implementation of the Basel Committee’s G-SIB capital surcharge in the U.S. would be forthcoming. In November 2012, the Financial Stability Board provisionally assigned the Company a capital surcharge of 1.5 percent of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets on a scale of 1.0 percent to 2.5 percent. The U.S. Basel III proposals contemplate that the new capital requirements would be phased in over several years, beginning in 2013. In November 2012, the U.S. banking regulators announced that the U.S. Basel III proposals would not become effective on January 1, 2013. The announcement did not specify new implementation or phase in dates for the U.S. Basel III proposals.  

In June 2011, the U.S. banking regulators published final regulations implementing a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring that certain institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve, including the Company, be subject to minimum capital requirements that are not less than the generally applicable risk-based capital requirements. Currently, this minimum “capital floor” is based on Basel I. The U.S. Basel III proposals would replace the current Basel I-based “capital floor” with a standardized approach that, among other things, modifies the existing risk weights for certain types of asset classes.  

See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted new capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including the Company. Under the Federal Reserve’s capital plan final rule, bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets, such as the Company, must submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the bank holding company and the Federal Reserve.  

The capital plan must include a description of all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution (i.e., payments of dividends or stock repurchases), and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could impact the bank holding company’s consolidated capital. The capital plan must include a discussion of how the bank holding company will maintain capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratios and above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5%, and serve as a source of strength to its subsidiary U.S. depository institutions under supervisory stress scenarios. The capital plan final rule requires that such companies receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution. In addition, even with an approved capital plan, the bank holding company must seek the approval of the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, the bank holding company would not meet its regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution. In addition to capital planning requirements, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the Company, MSBNA and MS Private Bank, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these policies and other requirements could influence the Company’s ability to pay dividends, or require it to provide capital assistance to MSBNA or MS Private Bank under circumstances under which the Company would not otherwise decide to do so.  

The Company expects that, by March 14, 2013, the Federal Reserve will either object or provide a notice of non-objection to the Company’s 2013 capital plan that was submitted to the Federal Reserve on January 7, 2013.  

In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued its stress test final rule as required by the Dodd-Frank Act that requires the Company to conduct semi-annual company-run stress tests. Under this rule, the Company is required to publicly disclose the summary results of its company-run stress tests under the severely adverse economic  

10  

Table of Contents 

 scenario. The rule also subjects the Company to an annual supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve has announced that it will, by March 7, 2013, publish a summary of the supervisory stress test results of each company subject to the stress test final rule, including the Company.  

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires national banks and federal savings associations with total consolidated assets of more than $10 billion to conduct an annual stress test. Beginning in 2013, the implementing regulation requires national banks with more than $50 billion in average total consolidated assets, including MSBNA, to conduct its first stress test. MSBNA submitted its stress test results to the OCC and the Federal Reserve in January 2013. 

See also “—Capital and Liquidity Standards” above and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7 herein.  

Systemic Risk Regime. The Dodd-Frank Act established a new regulatory framework applicable to financial institutions deemed to pose systemic risks. Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as the Company, became automatically subject to the systemic risk regime in July 2010. A new oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “Council”), can recommend prudential standards, reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for systemically important financial institutions, and must approve any finding by the Federal Reserve that a financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating actions. The Council is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation, and, assisted by the new Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”) (established by the Dodd-Frank Act), can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including the Company.  

Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, each bank holding company with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets must also provide to the Federal Reserve and FDIC an annual plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress. The Company submitted its first resolution plan to the Federal Reserve and FDIC on June 29, 2012. In addition, the Company’s principal U.S. bank subsidiary, MSBNA, submitted a resolution plan for its rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure on June 29, 2012, as required by the FDIC.  

In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act’s systemic risk regime. Among other provisions, the proposed rules would require bank holding companies with over $50 billion in assets, such as the Company, and any other company designated by the Council, to maintain a sufficient quantity of highly liquid assets to survive a projected 30-day liquidity stress event, to conduct regular liquidity stress tests, and to implement various liquidity risk management requirements. More generally, the proposed rules would require institutions to comply with a range of corporate governance requirements, such as establishment of a risk committee of the board of directors and appointment of a chief risk officer, both of which the Company already has.  

The proposed rules would also limit the aggregate exposure of each bank holding company with over $500 billion in assets, such as the Company, and each company designated by the Council, to each other such institution to 10% of the aggregate capital and surplus of each institution, and limit the aggregate exposure of such institutions to any other bank holding company with $50 billion or more of consolidated assets to 25% of each institution’s aggregate capital and surplus. In addition, the proposed rules would create a new early remediation regime to address financial distress or material management weaknesses determined with reference to four levels of early remediation, including heightened supervisory review, initial remediation, recovery, and resolution assessment, with specific limitations and requirements tied to each level.  

11  

Table of Contents 

The systemic risk regime also provides that, for institutions posing a grave threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon Council vote, must limit that institution’s ability to merge, restrict its ability to offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it to dispose of assets. Upon a grave threat determination by the Council, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that require financial institutions subject to the systemic risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15-to-1 if the Council considers it necessary to mitigate the risk. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures.  

See also “—Capital and Liquidity Standards” above and “—Orderly Liquidation Authority” below.  

Orderly Liquidation Authority. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the Company and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a new orderly liquidation authority. The U.S. Treasury must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations. Absent such U.S. Treasury determinations, the Company as a bank holding company would remain subject to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  

The orderly liquidation authority went into effect in July 2010, and rulemaking to render it fully operative is proceeding in stages, with some implementing regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed. If the Company were subjected to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable rights and powers that it must exercise with the goal of liquidating and winding up the Company, including (i) the FDIC’s right to assign assets and liabilities and transfer some to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (ii) the ability of the FDIC to differentiate among creditors, including by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (iii) the broad powers given the FDIC to administer the claims process to determine which creditor receives what, and in which order, from assets not transferred to a third party or bridge financial institution.  

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries.  

U.S. Banking Institutions. MSBNA, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers consumer margin lending and commercial lending services in addition to deposit products. Certain foreign exchange activities are also conducted in MSBNA. As an FDIC-insured national bank, MSBNA is subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.  

MS Private Bank offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products primarily for customers of its affiliate retail broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC (“MSSB LLC”). MS Private Bank also offers certain deposit products, as well as personal trust and prime brokerage custody services. MS Private Bank is an FDIC-insured national bank whose activities are subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC.  

Effective July 1, 2013, the lending limits applicable to the Company’s U.S. bank subsidiaries will be required to take into account credit exposure from derivative transactions, securities lending, securities borrowing and repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements with counterparties.  

Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” (“PCA”) with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current PCA regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as MSBNA or MS Private Bank and not to their parent holding companies, such as Morgan Stanley. The Federal Reserve is, however, subject to limitations, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level. In addition, as described above, under the systemic risk regime, the Company will become subject to an  

12  

Table of Contents 

 early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. The Dodd-Frank Act also formalized the requirement that bank holding companies, such as Morgan Stanley, serve as a source of strength to their U.S. bank subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress.  

Transactions with Affiliates. The Company’s U.S. bank subsidiaries are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on any extensions of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions with, any affiliates. These restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that they may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms. Effective July 2012, derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between the Company’s U.S. bank subsidiaries and their affiliates became subject to these restrictions. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will propose rulemaking to implement these restrictions. These reforms will place limits on the Company’s U.S. bank subsidiaries’ ability to engage in derivatives, repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions with other affiliates of the Company.  

In addition, the Volcker Rule imposes similar restrictions on transactions between the Company or any of its affiliates and hedge funds, private equity funds or similar funds for which the banking entity serves as the investment manager, investment adviser or sponsor.  

FDIC Regulation. An FDIC–insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. As FDIC-insured depository institutions, MSBNA and MS Private Bank are exposed to each other’s losses. In addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. In 2010, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan to replenish the reserve fund over a multi-year period. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, some of the restoration must be paid for exclusively by large depository institutions, including MSBNA, and assessments are calculated using a new methodology that generally favors banks that are mostly funded by deposits.  

Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.  

Broker-Dealer Regulation. The Company’s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. In addition, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are registered investment advisers with the SEC. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes various provisions that affect the regulation of broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, the SEC is authorized to adopt a fiduciary duty applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new category of regulation for “municipal advisors,” which are subject to a fiduciary duty with respect to certain activities. The U.S. Department of Labor is considering revisions to regulations under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that could subject broker-dealers to a fiduciary duty and prohibit specified transactions for a wider range of customer interactions. If the SEC exercises authority provided to it under the Dodd-Frank Act to prohibit or limit the use of mandatory pre-dispute arbitration agreements between a broker-dealer and its customers, it may materially increase the Company’s litigation costs. These developments  

13  

Table of Contents 

 may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential liabilities.  

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve’s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, the Company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules.  

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of the Company are subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory authorities and self-regulatory organizations. Many non-U.S. regulatory authorities and exchanges also have rules relating to capital and, in some cases, liquidity requirements that apply to the Company’s non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or more liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Consolidated Supervision” and “—Financial Holding Company—Capital and Liquidity Standards” above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets.  

Compliance with regulatory capital requirements may limit the Company’s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict the Company’s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt, or redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually large charge against capital, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require the Company to make substantial capital infusions into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules.  

MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”), which provides protection for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. SIPC protects customers’ eligible securities held by a member broker-dealer up to $500,000 per customer for all accounts in the same capacity subject to a limitation of $250,000 for claims for uninvested cash balances. To supplement this SIPC coverage, each of MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have purchased additional protection for the benefit of their customers in the form of an annual policy issued by certain underwriters and various insurance companies that provides protection for each eligible customer above SIPC limits subject to an aggregate firmwide cap of $1 billion with no per client sublimit for securities and a $1.9 million per client limit for the cash portion of any remaining shortfall. As noted under “—Financial Holding Company—Systemic Risk Regime” above, the Dodd-Frank Act contains special provisions for the orderly liquidation of covered financial institutions (which could potentially include MS&Co. and/or MSSB LLC). While these provisions are generally intended to provide customers of covered broker-dealers with protections at least as beneficial as they would enjoy in a broker-dealer liquidation proceeding under the Securities Investor Protection Act, the details and implementation of such protections are subject to further rulemaking.  

Over the past few years, the SEC has undertaken a review of a wide range of equity market structure issues. As a part of this review, the SEC has adopted new regulations and proposed various rules regarding market transparency and stability. A new short sale uptick rule that limits the ability to sell short securities that have experienced specified price declines is now in effect. The SEC also adopted rules requiring broker-dealers to maintain risk management controls and supervisory procedures with respect to providing access to securities markets, which became fully effective in 2012. In July 2012, the SEC adopted a consolidated audit trail rule, which, when fully implemented, will require large broker-dealers to report into one consolidated audit trail comprehensive information about every material event in the lifecycle of every quote, order, and execution in all exchange-listed stocks and options. It is possible that the SEC or self-regulatory organizations could propose or adopt additional market structure rules in the future. The provisions, new rules and proposals discussed above  

14  

Table of Contents 

 could result in increased costs and could otherwise adversely affect trading volumes and other conditions in the markets in which we operate. 

Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities. As futures commission merchants, MS&Co. and MSSB LLC are subject to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated by, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) and various commodity futures exchanges. The Company’s futures and options-on-futures also are regulated by the National Futures Association (“NFA”), a registered futures association, of which MS&Co. and MSSB LLC and certain of their affiliates are members. These regulatory requirements address obligations related to, among other things, the segregation of customer funds and the holding apart of a secured amount, the use of customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations, risk disclosure and discretionary trading. MS&Co. and MSSB LLC have affiliates that are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance. Under CFTC and NFA rules, commodity trading advisors who manage accounts and are registered with the NFA must distribute disclosure documents and maintain specified records relating to their activities, and clients and commodity pool operators have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they operate. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships.  

The Company’s commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading. Terminal facilities and other assets relating to the Company’s commodities activities also are subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Scope of Permitted Activities” above.  

Derivatives Regulation. Through the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company will face a comprehensive U.S. regulatory regime for its activities in certain OTC derivatives. The regulation of “swaps” and “security-based swaps” (collectively, “Swaps”) in the U.S. will be effected and implemented through the CFTC, SEC and other agency regulations, which are currently being adopted.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires central clearing of certain types of Swaps, public and regulatory reporting, and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities. These requirements are subject to some exceptions and will be phased in over time, with the first clearing requirements coming into effect for certain swaps with certain counterparties beginning in March 2013. When fully implemented, market participants, including the Company’s entities engaging in Swaps, will have to centrally clear, report and trade on an exchange or execution facility certain Swap transactions that are currently uncleared, not reported publicly and executed bilaterally.  

The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the registration of “swap dealers” and “major swap participants” with the CFTC and “security-based swap dealers” and “major security-based swap participants” with the SEC (collectively, “Swaps Entities”). Certain of the Company’s subsidiaries have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers and in the future additional subsidiaries may register with the CFTC as swap dealers. Certain subsidiaries of the Company will in the future be required to register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers.  

Swaps Entities are subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the Swaps activities for which they are registered, including new capital requirements, a new margin regime for uncleared Swaps and a new segregation regime for collateral of counterparties to uncleared Swaps. Swaps Entities are subject to  

15  

Table of Contents 

 additional duties, including, among others, internal and external business conduct and documentation standards with respect to their Swaps counterparties, recordkeeping and reporting. Certain subsidiaries of the Company will be or are also subject to new rules under the Dodd-Frank Act regarding segregation of customer collateral for cleared transactions, large trader reporting regimes, compensation requirements and anti-fraud and anti-manipulation requirements related to activities in Swaps.  

The specific parameters of these requirements for Swaps are being developed through CFTC, SEC and bank regulator rulemakings. While some of these requirements are already final and effective, others are subject to further rulemaking or deferred compliance dates. In particular, the CFTC, SEC and the banking regulators have proposed, but not yet adopted, rules regarding margin and capital requirements for Swaps Entities. Furthermore, in July 2012 and again in February 2013, the Basel Committee and the International Organization of Securities Commissions released a consultative document proposing margin requirements for non-centrally-cleared derivatives. The full impact of these proposals on the Company will not be known with certainty until the rules are finalized.  

Although the full impact of U.S. derivatives regulation on the Company remains unclear, the Company will face increased costs and regulatory oversight due to the registration and regulatory requirements indicated above. Complying with the Swaps rules also has required, and will in the future require, the Company to restructure its Swaps businesses, and has required, and will in the future require, extensive systems and personnel changes, and raise additional potential liabilities. Compliance with Swap-related partially finalized regulatory capital requirements may require the Company to devote more capital to its Swaps business. The extraterritorial impact of the rules also remains unclear.  

The E.U. and other non-U.S. jurisdictions are in the process of adopting and implementing legislation emanating from the G20 commitments that will require, among other things, the central clearing of certain OTC derivatives, mandatory reporting of derivatives and bilateral risk mitigation procedures for non-cleared trades. It is unclear at present how the non-U.S. and U.S. derivatives regulatory regimes will interact.  

Non-U.S. Regulation. The Company’s institutional securities businesses also are regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which the Company maintains an office. Non-U.S. policy makers and regulators, including the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities, continue to propose and adopt numerous market reforms, including those that may further impact the structure of banks, and formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to the Company’s European operations. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) Financial Services Authority (“FSA”), which is expected to be replaced by the Prudential Regulatory Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority on April 1, 2013, and several U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe, regulate the Company’s activities in the U.K.; the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) and the Deutsche Bôrse AG regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; Eidgenôssische Finanzmarktaufsicht (the Financial Market Supervisory Authority) regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.  

Asset Management.  

Many of the subsidiaries engaged in the Company’s asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Many aspects of the Company’s asset management activities are subject to federal and  

16  

Table of Contents 

 state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the Company from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on the Company engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. In order to facilitate its asset management business, the Company owns a registered U.S. broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc., which acts as distributor to the Morgan Stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by the Company’s asset management business segment. See also “—Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group—Broker-Dealer Regulation” above.  

As a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, the Company’s asset management activities will be subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds), restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds under the Volcker Rule (subject to certain limited exceptions) and certain rules and regulations regarding trading activities, including trading in derivatives markets. Many of these new requirements may increase the expenses associated with the Company’s asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns the Company is able to generate for its asset management clients. Many important elements of the Dodd-Frank Act will not be known until rulemaking is finalized and certain final regulations are adopted. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule” and “—Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group—Derivatives Regulation” above.  

The Company’s Asset Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the FSA regulates the Company’s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates the Company’s business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange Board of India regulates the Company’s business in India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates the Company’s business in Singapore. European and local regulators are proposing additional obligations on the management and marketing of funds in the E.U.  

Anti-Money Laundering and Economic Sanctions.  

The Company’s Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding company subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, and mutual funds to implement AML programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement AML programs. The Company has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. The Company has also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to the U.S. foreign policy, national security, or economy; by other governments; or by global or regional multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations Security Council and the E.U. as applicable.  

Anti-Corruption.  

The Company is subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. The Company has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Protection of Client Information.  

Many aspects of the Company’s business are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the E.U. Data Protection Directive and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. The Company has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.  

Research.  

Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which the Company is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.  

Compensation Practices and Other Regulation.  

The Company’s compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve. In particular, the Company is subject to the Federal Reserve’s guidance that is designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations’ safety and soundness. The scope and content of the Federal Reserve’s policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its peer review process, and the Company expects that these policies will evolve over a number of years.  

The Company is subject to the compensation-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which may impact its compensation practices. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things, federal regulators, including the Federal Reserve, must prescribe regulations to require covered financial institutions, including the Company, to report the structures of all of their incentive-based compensation arrangements and prohibit incentive-based payment arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing employees, directors or principal shareholders with compensation that is excessive or that could lead to material financial loss to the covered financial institution. In April 2011, seven federal agencies, including the Federal Reserve, jointly proposed an interagency rule implementing this requirement. The rule has not yet been finalized. Further, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC must direct listing exchanges to require companies to implement policies relating to disclosure of incentive-based compensation that is based on publicly reported financial information and the clawback of such compensation from current or former executive officers following certain accounting restatements.  

In addition to the guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and referenced above, the Company’s compensation practices may also be impacted by other regulations promulgated in accordance with the Financial Stability Board compensation principles and standards. These standards are to be implemented by local regulators, including in the U.K., where the remuneration of employees of certain banks is governed by the Remuneration Code.  

For a discussion of certain risks relating to the Company’s regulatory environment, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A herein.  

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.  

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of February 26, 2013 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Gregory J. Fleming (49). Executive Vice President (since February 2010), President of Asset Management (since February 2010) and President of Global Wealth Management Group of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011). President of Research of Morgan Stanley (February 2010 to January 2011). Senior Research Scholar at Yale Law School and Distinguished Visiting Fellow of the Center for the Study of Corporate Law at Yale Law School (January 2009 to December 2009). President of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”) (February 2008 to January 2009). Co-President of Merrill Lynch (May 2007 to February 2008). Executive Vice President and Co-President of the Global Markets and Investment Banking Group of Merrill Lynch (August 2003 to May 2007).  

James P. Gorman (54). Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). President and Chief Executive Officer (January 2010 through December 2011) and member of the Board of Directors (since January 2010). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer of Global Wealth Management Group (February 2006 to April 2008).  

Eric F. Grossman (46). Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). Global Head of Legal (September 2010 to January 2012). Global Head of Litigation (January 2006 to September 2010) and General Counsel of the Americas (May 2009 to September 2010). General Counsel of Global Wealth Management Group (November 2008 to June 2009) and General Counsel of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management (June 2009 to September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP (June 2001 to December 2005).  

Keishi Hotsuki (50). Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2011). Interim Chief Risk Officer (January 2011 to May 2011) and Head of Market Risk Department (since March 2008). Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (since May 2010). Global Head of Market Risk Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007).  

Colm Kelleher (55). Executive Vice President (since October 2007) and President of Institutional Securities (since January 2013). Co-President of Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (January 2010 to December 2012). Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006).  

Ruth Porat (55). Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Vice Chairman of Investment Banking (September 2003 to December 2009). Global Head of Financial Institutions Group (September 2006 to December 2009) and Chairman of the Financial Sponsors Group (July 2004 to September 2006) within Investment Banking.  

James A. Rosenthal (59). Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2011). Head of Corporate Strategy (January 2010 to May 2011). Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management (January 2010 to August 2011). Head of Firmwide Technology and Operations of Morgan Stanley (March 2008 to January 2010). Chief Financial Officer of Tishman Speyer (May 2006 to March 2008).  

19  

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.