Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and applicable notes to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8, and other information in this report, including Risk Factors set forth in Item 1A and Critical Accounting Policies and Cautionary Information at the end of this Item 7.  

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable business segment. Although revenue is analyzed by commodity, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of the rail network.  

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY  

2014 Results  

   •    Safety – During 2014, we continued focusing on safety to reduce risk and eliminate incidents for our employees, our customers and the public. We achieved our best ever reportable personal injury incidents per 200,000 employee-hours of 0.98 and, for the first time, we ended the year below 1.0. In addition, our full year reportable derailment incident per million train miles improved 7%. These results demonstrate our employees’ dedication to our safety initiatives and our employee engagement efforts through Courage to Care, Total Safety Culture, and UP Way (our continuous improvement culture). We finished 2014 with a 5% higher crossing incident rate per million train miles than the year prior. Previous prevention and mitigation efforts for at-grade crossing improvements continue with new approaches planned for 2015 to reduce our exposure to crossing accidents.  

   •    Financial Performance – In 2014, we continued our record-setting financial performance, generating operating income of $8.8 billion, an 18% increase over 2013. Core pricing gains of 2.5%, business demand and productivity, partially offset by costs of running a slower network and inflation, drove this increase. Our operating ratio for 2014 of 63.5% was an all-time best, improving from last year’s operating ratio of 66.1%. Net income of $5.2 billion surpassed our previous milestone set in 2013, translating into earnings of $5.75 per diluted share for 2014.  

   •    Freight Revenues – Our freight revenues grew 9% year-over-year to a record $22.6 billion driven by volume growth along with core pricing gains of 2.5%. Compared to 2013, freight revenues and volume grew in all six commodity groups with double digit growth in Agricultural and Industrial Products. Our fuel surcharge increased 6% versus 2013 driven by volume growth, improved fuel recovery provisions and the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months).  

   •    Network Operations – Significant carload growth levels coupled with severe weather affected the performance of our network and the North American rail network as a whole. Average train speed, as reported to the AAR, declined 8% in 2014 compared to 2013, reflecting the 7% volume increase, a major infrastructure project in Fort Worth, Texas and severe weather conditions. Average terminal dwell time increased 12% primarily due to higher volumes and inclement weather.  

   •    Fuel Prices – Our average price per gallon of diesel fuel in 2014 decreased 6% from the average price in 2013, as both crude oil and the conversion spreads between crude oil and diesel declined in 2014. The lower price decreased operating expenses by over $200 million (excluding any impact from year-over-year volume). Our fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, decreased 1% compared to 2013 also lowering fuel expense. These declines were offset by a 7% increase in gross-ton miles, which increased fuel expense.  

   •    Free Cash Flow – Cash generated by operating activities totaled $7.4 billion, yielding free cash flow of $1.5 billion after reductions of $4.2 billion for cash used in investing activities and a 22% increase in dividends paid. Free cash flow is defined as cash provided by operating activities less cash used in investing activities and dividends paid.  

Free cash flow is not considered a financial measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP) by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe free cash flow is important to management and investors in evaluating our financial performance and measures our ability to  

23  

Table of Contents 

 generate cash without additional external financings. Free cash flow should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, cash provided by operating activities. The following table reconciles cash provided by operating activities (GAAP measure) to free cash flow (non-GAAP measure):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2015 Outlook  

   •    Safety – Operating a safe railroad benefits all our constituents: our employees, customers, shareholders and the communities we serve. We will continue using a multi-faceted approach to safety, utilizing technology, risk assessment, quality control, training and employee engagement, and targeted capital investments. We will continue using and expanding the deployment of Total Safety Culture and Courage to Care throughout our operations, which allows us to identify and implement best practices for employee and operational safety. We will continue our efforts to increase detection of rail defects; improve or close crossings; and educate the public and law enforcement agencies about crossing safety through a combination of our own programs (including risk assessment strategies), industry programs and local community activities across our network.  

   •    Network Operations – In 2015, we will continue to add resources to support growth, improve service, and replenish our surge capability.  

   •    Fuel Prices – With the dramatic drop in fuel prices at the end of 2014, there is even more uncertainty around the projections of fuel prices. We again could see volatile fuel prices during the year, as they are sensitive to global and U.S. domestic demand, refining capacity, geopolitical events, weather conditions and other factors. As prices fluctuate there will be a timing impact on earnings, as our fuel surcharge programs trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months.  

Lower fuel prices could have a positive impact on the economy by increasing consumer discretionary spending that potentially could increase demand for various consumer products that we transport. Alternatively, lower fuel prices will likely have a negative impact on other commodities such as coal, frac sand and crude oil shipments.  

   •    Capital Plan – In 2015, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $4.3 billion, including expenditures for PTC and 218 locomotives. The capital plan may be revised if business conditions warrant or if new laws or regulations affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. (See further discussion in this Item 7 under Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Plan.)  

   •    Financial Expectations – We expect the overall U.S. economy to continue to improve at a moderate pace. One of the biggest uncertainties is the outlook for energy markets, which will bring both challenges and opportunities. On balance, we expect to see positive volume growth for 2015 versus the prior year. In the current environment, we expect continued margin improvement driven by continued pricing opportunities, ongoing productivity initiatives and the ability to leverage our resources as we improve the fluidity of our network.  

24  

Table of Contents 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Operating Revenues  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We generate freight revenues by transporting freight or other materials from our six commodity groups. Freight revenues vary with volume (carloads) and average revenue per car (ARC). Changes in price, traffic mix and fuel surcharges drive ARC. We provide some of our customers with contractual incentives for meeting or exceeding specified cumulative volumes or shipping to and from specific locations, which we record as reductions to freight revenues based on the actual or projected future shipments. We recognize freight revenues as shipments move from origin to destination. We allocate freight revenues between reporting periods based on the relative transit time in each reporting period and recognize expenses as we incur them.  

Other revenues include revenues earned by our subsidiaries, revenues from our commuter rail operations, and accessorial revenues, which we earn when customers retain equipment owned or controlled by us or when we perform additional services such as switching or storage. We recognize other revenues as we perform services or meet contractual obligations.  

Freight revenues from all six commodity groups increased during 2014 compared to 2013 driven by 7% volume growth and core pricing gains of 2.5%. Volume growth from grain, frac sand, rock, and intermodal (domestic and international) shipments offset declines in crude oil.  

Freight revenues from five of our six commodity groups increased during 2013 compared to 2012. Revenue from Agricultural Products was down slightly compared to 2012. ARC increased 5%, driven by core pricing gains, shifts in business mix and an automotive logistics management arrangement. Volume essentially was flat year over year as growth in automotive, frac sand, crude oil and domestic intermodal offset declines in coal, international intermodal and grain shipments.  

Our fuel surcharge programs generated freight revenues of $2.8 billion, $2.6 billion, and $2.6 billion in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Fuel surcharge in 2014 increased 6% driven by our 7% carloadings increase. Fuel surcharge in 2013 essentially was flat versus 2012 as lower fuel price offset improved fuel recovery provisions and the lag effect of our programs (surcharges trail fluctuations in fuel price by approximately two months).  

In 2014, other revenue increased from 2013 due to higher revenues at our subsidiaries, primarily those that broker intermodal and automotive services, accessorial revenue driven by increased volume and per diem revenue for container usage (previously included in automotive freight revenue).  

In 2013, other revenue increased from 2012 due primarily to miscellaneous contract revenue and higher revenues at our subsidiaries that broker intermodal and automotive services.  

25  

Table of Contents 

The following tables summarize the year-over-year changes in freight revenues, revenue carloads, and ARC by commodity type:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  Each intermodal container or trailer equals one carload.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Agricultural Products – Higher volume and pricing gains drove the increase in freight revenue from agricultural shipments in 2014 versus 2013. Grain shipments increased 27%, reflecting the strong overall harvest in 2013 and 2014. The 2012 drought negatively impacted the first three quarters of 2013, which created favorable comparisons for the first three quarters of 2014. Lower export wheat shipments due to a larger world crop partially offset gains in grain. 

In 2013, lower volume offset price improvements as freight revenue declined slightly versus 2012. In the fourth quarter, grain shipments increased 41% due to a robust fall harvest. Despite the fourth quarter growth, grain shipments still    

2014 Agricultural Products Carloads 

  decreased 4% for the full year when compared to 2012, reflecting the impact of the severe drought in 2012 that affected territory served by us during the first three quarters of 2013. Export wheat shipped to the Gulf and Pacific Northwest increased in the second half of 2013, partially offsetting the declines in grain.  

  Automotive – Freight revenue from automotive shipments increased compared to 2013. Growth in automotive parts and finished vehicle shipments and core price improvements drove the higher revenue. The increase in automotive parts volume was driven by continued strength in production and market penetration. Finished vehicles shipments increased the last three quarters of 2014 with improved sales and production, which offset declines in the first quarter due to winter weather. Shifts in business mix and a change in how we are compensated for container usage, which is now included as a per diem charge in other revenue, negatively impacted ARC compared to 2013.    

2014 Automotive Carloads 

Higher ARC due to price increases and the logistics management arrangement that covers fees and container costs, coupled with increased shipments of automotive parts and finished vehicles, improved automotive revenue in 2013 compared to 2012. Higher production and sales levels during 2013 drove the volume growth.  

  Chemicals – Core price improvements, higher volumes and ARC driven by positive business mix increased freight revenue from chemicals compared to 2013. Shipments of industrial chemicals grew as a result of continued strong demand in the drilling market. Fertilizer shipments increased due to strong exports of potash. Reduced shipments of crude oil from the Bakken and Permian shale formations to the Gulf area partially offset these gains as market factors, primarily regional pricing differences for various types of crude oil, displaced some of the former Gulf Coast shipments to the East and West Coasts.    

2014 Chemicals Carloads 

Volume gains and price improvement increased freight revenue from chemicals in 2013 versus 2012. Shipments of crude oil from the Bakken, Permian, Niobrara and Eagle Ford shale formations primarily to the Gulf area drove the growth in shipments of  

27  

Table of Contents 

 chemicals. In addition, shipments of industrial chemicals increased as manufacturing, housing and automotive markets improved.  

  Coal – Freight revenue from coal shipments increased in 2014 compared to 2013, driven by higher volumes. Shifts in business mix negatively impacted ARC compared to 2013. Southern Powder River Basin (SPRB) shipments increased 3% from 2013. Strong demand continued throughout the year due to inventory replenishment but network performance and contract losses limited year-over-year volume growth. Shipments from Colorado and Utah mines increased 6% compared to 2013, driven by higher natural gas prices for most of the year and strong exports through the West Coast. However, in the fourth quarter volumes from Colorado and Utah mines declined as exports to the Gulf Coast decreased.    

2014 Coal Carloads 

ARC gains driven by price increases and positive business mix, partially offset by volume declines, increased freight revenue from coal shipments in 2013 versus 2012. SPRB shipments declined 10% from 2012 due to the loss of a customer contract at the beginning of the year, relatively mild summer weather, and tighter coal inventory management by utilities. Shipments from Colorado and Utah mines decreased 13% compared to 2012, driven by soft domestic demand and mine production issues, partially offset by second half growth in international shipments. Severe flooding and washouts in Colorado also reduced volumes from certain producers in the third quarter.  

Industrial Products – Volume growth, core pricing gains and positive business mix increased freight revenue from industrial products versus 2013. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand, up 31%) grew as a result of drilling activity for energy products, as well as evolving drilling practices, which can increase the amount of frac sand used at certain wells. Additionally, rock and lumber shipments increased from 2013, driven by new housing and commercial construction. 

Freight revenue from industrial products increased in 2013 versus 2012 driven by volume growth and higher ARC due to pricing gains and favorable business mix. Shipments of non-metallic minerals (primarily frac sand) grew as a result of drilling activity for energy products. Additionally, growth in new housing construction and home improvements drove an    

2014 Industrial Products Carloads 

  increase in lumber shipments. Declines in ferrous scrap and government shipments partially offset these higher volumes.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Intermodal – Freight revenue from intermodal shipments increased in 2014 compared to 2013 driven by volume growth, core pricing improvements and positive business mix. Domestic traffic increased 11% due to continued conversions from truck transportation to rail and new premium services. International traffic grew 5% versus 2013, driven primarily by new business and improving economic conditions. International gains in the last three quarters of the year offset the declines in the first quarter due to severe weather that negatively impacted consumer demand. 

Pricing improvements and slight volume growth drove increased freight revenue from intermodal shipments in 2013    

2014 Intermodal Carloads 

compared to 2012. Domestic traffic increased 3% due to overall economic growth along with conversions from truck transportation to rail. International traffic declined 2% versus 2012, reflecting market share shifts within the ocean carrier industry and an increase in transloading in the second half of the year. Transloading involves the transfer of goods from international to domestic containers at distribution centers near West coast ports, which reduces demand for rail transportation from these centers in international containers.  

Mexico Business – Each of our commodity groups includes revenue from shipments to and from Mexico. Revenue from Mexico business increased 8% to $2.3 billion in 2014 versus 2013. Volume levels increased 8% from 2013, as increases in Agricultural Products, Chemicals, Intermodal, Automotive and Industrial Products offset lower export Coal shipments.  

Revenue from Mexico business increased 9% to $2.1 billion in 2013 versus 2012. Shipments were up 3% versus 2012; all commodity groups grew with the exception of Agricultural Products. The largest growth came from Automotive and Industrial Products shipments.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Operating Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating expenses increased $718 million in 2014 versus 2013. Volume-related expenses, incremental costs associated with operating a slower network, depreciation, wage and benefit inflation, and locomotive and freight car materials contributed to the higher costs. Lower fuel price partially offset these increases. In addition, there were approximately $35 million of weather related costs in the first quarter of 2014. 

Operating expenses increased $336 million in 2013 versus 2012. Wage and benefit inflation, new logistics management fees and container costs for our automotive business, locomotive overhauls, property taxes and repairs on jointly owned property contributed to higher expenses during the year. Lower fuel prices partially offset the cost increases.    

2014 Operating Expenses 

Compensation and Benefits – Compensation and benefits include wages, payroll taxes, health and welfare costs, pension costs, other postretirement benefits, and incentive costs. Volume-related expenses, including training, and a slower network increased our train and engine work force, which, along with general wage and benefit inflation, drove increased wages. Weather-related costs in the first quarter of 2014 also increased costs.  

General wages and benefits inflation, including increased pension and other postretirement benefits, and higher work force levels drove the increases in 2013 versus 2012. The impact of ongoing productivity initiatives partially offset these increases.  

Fuel – Fuel includes locomotive fuel and gasoline for highway and non-highway vehicles and heavy equipment. Volume growth of 7%, as measured by gross ton-miles, drove the increase in fuel expense. This was essentially offset by lower locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $2.97 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2014, compared to $3.15 in 2013, along with a slight improvement in fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles.  

Lower locomotive diesel fuel prices, which averaged $3.15 per gallon (including taxes and transportation costs) in 2013, compared to $3.22 in 2012, decreased expenses by $75 million. Volume, as measured by gross ton-miles, decreased 1% while the fuel consumption rate, computed as gallons of fuel consumed divided by gross ton-miles, increased 2% compared to 2012. Declines in heavier, more fuel-efficient coal shipments drove the variances in gross-ton-miles and the fuel consumption rate.  

Purchased Services and Materials – Expense for purchased services and materials includes the costs of services purchased from outside contractors and other service providers (including equipment maintenance and contract expenses incurred by our subsidiaries for external transportation services); materials used to maintain the Railroad’s lines, structures, and equipment; costs of operating facilities jointly used by UPRR and other railroads; transportation and lodging for train crew employees; trucking and contracting costs for intermodal containers; leased automobile maintenance expenses; and tools and supplies. Expenses for purchased services increased 8% compared to 2013 primarily due to volume- 

30  

Table of Contents 

 related expenses incurred by our logistics subsidiaries for external transportation and increased crew transportation and lodging due to volumes and a slower network. In addition, higher consulting fees and higher contract expenses (including equipment maintenance) increased costs compared to 2013. Locomotive and freight car material expenses increased in 2014 compared to 2013 due to additional volumes, including the impact of activating stored equipment to address operational issues caused by demand and a slower network.  

Expenses for purchased services increased 10% in 2013 compared to 2012 due to logistics management fees, an increase in locomotive overhauls and repairs on jointly owned property.  

Depreciation – The majority of depreciation relates to road property, including rail, ties, ballast, and other track material. Depreciation was up 7% compared to 2013. A higher depreciable asset base, reflecting higher ongoing capital spending drove the increase.  

Depreciation was up 1% in 2013 compared to 2012. Recent depreciation studies allowed us to use longer estimated service lives for certain equipment, which partially offset the impact of a higher depreciable asset base resulting from larger capital spending in recent years.  

Equipment and Other Rents – Equipment and other rents expense primarily includes rental expense that the Railroad pays for freight cars owned by other railroads or private companies; freight car, intermodal, and locomotive leases; and office and other rent expenses. Higher intermodal volumes and longer cycle times increased short-term freight car rental expense in 2014 compared to 2013. Lower equipment leases essentially offset the higher freight car rental expense, as we exercised purchase options on some of our leased equipment.  

Additional container costs resulting from the logistics management arrangement, and increased automotive shipments, partially offset by lower cycle times drove a $51 million increase in our short-term freight car rental expense in 2013 versus 2012. Conversely, lower locomotive and freight car lease expenses partially offset the higher freight car rental expense.  

Other – Other expenses include state and local taxes, freight, equipment and property damage, utilities, insurance, personal injury, environmental, employee travel, telephone and cellular, computer software, bad debt, and other general expenses. Higher property taxes, personal injury expense and utilities costs partially offset by lower environmental expense and costs associated with damaged freight drove the increase in other costs in 2014 compared to 2013.  

Higher property taxes and costs associated with damaged freight and property increased other costs in 2013 compared to 2012. Continued improvement in our safety performance and lower estimated liability for personal injury, which reduced our personal injury expense year-over-year, partially offset increases in other costs.  

Non-Operating Items  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other Income – Other income increased in 2014 versus 2013 due to higher gains from real estate sales and a sale of a permanent easement. These gains were partially offset by higher environmental costs on non-operating property in 2014 and lower lease income due to the $17 million settlement of a land lease contract in 2013.  

Other income increased in 2013 versus 2012 due to higher gains from real estate sales and increased lease income, including the favorable impact from the $17 million settlement of a land lease contract. These increases were partially offset by interest received from a tax refund in 2012.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Interest Expense – Interest expense increased in 2014 versus 2013 due to an increased weighted-average debt level of $10.8 billion in 2014 from $9.6 billion in 2013, which more than offset the impact of the lower effective interest rate of 5.3% in 2014 versus 5.7% in 2013.  

Interest expense decreased in 2013 versus 2012 due to a lower effective interest rate of 5.7% in 2013 versus 6.0% in 2012. The increase in the weighted-average debt level to $9.6 billion in 2013 from $9.1 billion in 2012 partially offset the impact of the lower effective interest rate.  

Income Taxes – Higher pre-tax income increased income taxes in 2014 compared to 2013. Our effective tax rate for 2014 was 37.9% compared to 37.7% in 2013.  

Higher pre-tax income increased income taxes in 2013 compared to 2012. Our effective tax rate for 2013 was 37.7% compared to 37.6% in 2012.  

OTHER OPERATING/PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS  

We report a number of key performance measures weekly to the Association of American Railroads (AAR). We provide this data on our website at www.up.com/investor/aar-stb_reports/index.htm.  

Operating/Performance Statistics  

Railroad performance measures are included in the table below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average Train Speed – Average train speed is calculated by dividing train miles by hours operated on our main lines between terminals. Average train speed, as reported to the Association of American Railroads, decreased 8% in 2014 versus 2013. The decline was driven by a 7% volume increase, a major infrastructure project in Fort Worth, Texas and inclement weather, including flooding in the Midwest in the second quarter and severe weather conditions in the first quarter that impacted all major U.S. and Canadian railroads.  

Average train speed decreased 2% in 2013 versus 2012. The decline was driven by severe weather conditions and shifts of traffic to sections of our network with higher utilization.  

Average Terminal Dwell Time – Average terminal dwell time is the average time that a rail car spends at our terminals. Lower average terminal dwell time improves asset utilization and service. Average terminal dwell time increased 12% in 2014 compared to 2013, caused by higher volumes and inclement weather.  

Average terminal dwell time increased 3% in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to growth of manifest traffic which requires more time in terminals for switching cars and building trains.  

Gross and Revenue Ton-Miles – Gross ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of loaded and empty freight cars by the number of miles hauled. Revenue ton-miles are calculated by multiplying the weight of freight by the number of tariff miles. Gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloadings all increased 7% in 2014 compared to 2013.  

Gross ton-miles and revenue ton-miles declined 1% in 2013 compared to 2012 and carloads remained relatively flat driven by declines in coal and agricultural products offset by growth in chemical, autos and industrial products. Changes in commodity mix drove the year-over-year variances between gross ton-miles, revenue ton-miles and carloads.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Operating Ratio – Operating ratio is our operating expenses reflected as a percentage of operating revenue. Our operating ratio improved 2.6 points to a new record low of 63.5% in 2014 versus 2013. Core pricing, business demand and productivity more than offset the incremental operating costs associated with volume, a slower network, weather and inflation.  

Our operating ratio improved 1.7 points to a then record low of 66.1% in 2013 versus 2012. Core pricing and productivity gains more than offset the impact of inflation.  

Employees – Employee levels increased 2% in 2014 versus 2013. A decrease in our capital workforce due to improved productivity and project mix partially offset the larger train and engine workforce required for higher volume levels and a slower network. We successfully managed the growth of our full-time equivalent train and engine force levels at a rate less than our volume growth in 2014 compared to 2013.  

Employee levels increased 1% in 2013 versus 2012. Shifts in our traffic mix, which required more resources, largely concentrated in the Southern region, work related to higher capital investment in positive train control and more individuals in the training pipeline contributed to the higher employee levels.  

Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Return on Invested Capital as Adjusted (ROIC)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

ROIC is considered a non-GAAP financial measure by SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our long-term capital investments. In addition, we currently use ROIC as a performance criteria in determining certain elements of equity compensation for our executives. ROIC should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, other information provided in accordance with GAAP. The most comparable GAAP measure is Return on Average Common Shareholders’ Equity. The tables above provide reconciliations from return on average common shareholders’ equity to ROIC. Our 2014 ROIC improved 1.5 points compared to 2013, primarily as a result of higher earnings.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Debt to Capital  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Adjusted debt to capital is a non-GAAP financial measure under SEC Regulation G and Item 10 of SEC Regulation S-K, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner. We believe this measure is important to management and investors in evaluating the total amount of leverage in our capital structure, including off-balance sheet lease obligations, which we generally incur in connection with financing the acquisition of locomotives and freight cars and certain facilities. Operating leases were discounted using 5.3% and 5.7% at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The discount rate reflects our effective interest rate. We monitor the ratio of adjusted debt to capital as we manage our capital structure to balance cost-effective and efficient access to the capital markets with our overall cost of capital. Adjusted debt to capital should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, debt to capital. The tables above provide reconciliations from debt to capital to adjusted debt to capital. Our December 31, 2014 debt to capital ratios increased as a result of a $1.9 billion increase in debt from December 31, 2013.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

As of December 31, 2014, our principal sources of liquidity included cash, cash equivalents, our receivables securitization facility, and our revolving credit facility, as well as the availability of commercial paper and other sources of financing through the capital markets. We had $1.7 billion of committed credit available under our credit facility, with no borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2014. We did not make any borrowings under this facility during 2014. The value of the outstanding undivided interest held by investors under the $650 million capacity receivables securitization facility was $400 million as of December 31, 2014, and is included in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as debt due after one year. Our access to this receivables securitization facility may be reduced or restricted if our bond ratings fall to certain levels below investment grade. If our bond rating were to deteriorate, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity. Access to commercial paper as well as other capital market financings is dependent on market conditions. Deterioration of our operating results or financial condition due to internal or external factors could negatively impact our ability to access capital markets as a source of liquidity. Access to liquidity through the capital markets is also dependent on our financial stability. We expect that we will continue to have access to liquidity through any or all of the following sources or activities: (i) increasing the size or utilization of our receivables securitization, (ii) issuing commercial paper, (iii) entering into bank loans, outside of our revolving credit facility, or (iv) issuing bonds or other debt securities to public or private investors based on our assessment of the current condition of the credit markets. The Company’s $1.7 billion revolving credit facility is intended to support the issuance of commercial paper by UPC and also serves as an emergency source of liquidity. The Company currently does not intend to make any borrowings under this facility.  

At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had a modest working capital surplus. This reflects a strong cash position that provides enhanced liquidity in an uncertain economic environment. In addition, we believe  

34  

Table of Contents 

 we have adequate access to capital markets to meet any foreseeable cash requirements, and we have sufficient financial capacity to satisfy our current liabilities.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities  

Higher net income in 2014 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2013, despite higher income tax payments. 2014 income tax payments were higher than 2013 primarily due to higher income, but also because we paid taxes previously deferred by bonus depreciation (discussed below).  

Higher net income in 2013 increased cash provided by operating activities compared to 2012. In addition, we made payments in 2012 for past wages as a result of national labor negotiations, which reduced cash provided by operating activities in 2012. Lower tax benefits from bonus depreciation (as discussed below) partially offset the increases.  

Federal tax law provided for 100% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2011 and 50% bonus depreciation for qualified investments made during 2012-2013. As a result, the Company deferred a substantial portion of its 2011-2013 income tax expense, contributing to the positive operating cash flow in those years. Congress extended 50% bonus depreciation for 2014, but this extension occurred in December and did not have a significant benefit on our income tax payments during 2014.  

Investing Activities  

Higher capital investments, including the early buyout of the long-term operating lease of our headquarters building for approximately $261 million, drove the increase in cash used in investing activities compared to 2013. Significant investments also were made for new locomotives, freight cars and containers, and capacity and commercial facility projects. Capital investments in 2014 also included $99 million for the early buyout of locomotives and freight cars under long-term operating leases, which we exercised due to favorable economic terms and market conditions.  

Lower capital investments in locomotives and freight cars in 2013 drove the decrease in cash used in investing activities compared to 2012. Included in capital investments in 2012 was $75 million for the early buyout of 165 locomotives under long-term operating and capital leases during the first quarter of 2012, which we exercised due to favorable economic terms and market conditions.  

35  

Table of Contents 

The following tables detail cash capital investments and track statistics for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  Other includes bridges and tunnels, signals, other road assets, and road work equipment.  

 [b]  Technology and other includes the early buyout of our headquarters building operating lease.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Capital Plan – In 2015, we expect our capital plan to be approximately $4.3 billion, which may be revised if business conditions or the regulatory environment affect our ability to generate sufficient returns on these investments. While asset replacements will fluctuate as part of our renewal strategy, we expect to use 55% to 60% of our capital investments to renew and improve existing capital assets. Our major investment categories include renewing track infrastructure and upgrading our fleet of locomotives, freight cars, and domestic intermodal containers. In 2015, we plan to acquire 218 locomotives and increase freight car and container acquisitions. Additionally, we will continue increasing our network and terminal capacity, especially in the Southern region, while balancing terminal capacity with mainline capacity. In 2015, we also plan to begin constructing a major classification yard at Hearne, Texas, and continue developing several intermodal, automotive and chemicals facilities. Significant investments in technology improvements are planned, including approximately $450 million for PTC.  

We expect to fund our 2015 cash capital plan by using some or all of the following: cash generated from operations, proceeds from the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt, and cash on hand. Our annual capital plan is a critical component of our long-term strategic plan. We expect our plan will enhance the long-term value of the Company for our shareholders by providing sufficient resources to (i) replace and improve our existing track infrastructure to provide safe and fluid operations, (ii) increase network efficiency by adding or improving facilities and track, and (iii) make investments that meet customer demand and take advantage of opportunities for long-term growth.  

Financing Activities  

Cash used in financing activities remained flat in 2014 versus 2013. Increases for the repurchase of shares under our common stock repurchase program and higher dividend payments in 2014 of $1.6 billion compared to $1.3 billion in 2013 were offset by higher debt issuances in 2014.  

Cash used in financing activities increased in 2013 versus 2012, driven by a $744 million increase for the repurchase of shares under our common stock repurchase program and higher dividend payments in 2013 of $1.3 billion compared to $1.1 billion in 2012. We increased our debt levels in 2013, which partially offset the increase in cash used in financing activities.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Dividends – On February 5, 2015, we increased the quarterly dividend to $0.55 per share, payable on March 30, 2015, to shareholders of record on February 27, 2015, We expect to fund the increase in the quarterly dividend through cash generated from operations and cash on hand at December 31, 2014.  

Credit Facilities – During the second quarter of 2014, we replaced our $1.8 billion revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to expire in May 2015, with a new $1.7 billion facility that expires in May 2019 (the facility). The facility is based on substantially similar terms as those in the previous credit facility. On December 31, 2014, we had $1.7 billion of credit available under the facility, which is designated for general corporate purposes and supports the issuance of commercial paper. We did not draw on either facility at any time during 2014. Commitment fees and interest rates payable under the facility are similar to fees and rates available to comparably rated, investment-grade borrowers. The facility allows for borrowings at floating rates based on London Interbank Offered Rates, plus a spread, depending upon credit ratings for our senior unsecured debt.  

The facility requires that the Corporation maintain a debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio as a condition to making a borrowing. At December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013 (and at all times during the year), we were in compliance with this covenant. The definition of debt used for purposes of calculating the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio includes, among other things, certain credit arrangements, capital leases, guarantees and unfunded and vested pension benefits under Title IV of ERISA. At December 31, 2014, the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio allowed us to carry up to $42.4 billion of debt (as defined in the facility), and we had $11.6 billion of debt (as defined in the facility) outstanding at that date. Under our current capital plans, we expect to continue to satisfy the debt-to-net-worth coverage ratio; however, many factors beyond our reasonable control could affect our ability to comply with this provision in the future. The facility does not include any other financial restrictions, credit rating triggers (other than rating-dependent pricing), or any other provision that could require us to post collateral. The facility also includes a $125 million cross-default provision and a change-of-control provision.  

During 2014, we did not issue or repay any commercial paper, and at December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our revolving credit facility supports our outstanding commercial paper balances, and, unless we change the terms of our commercial paper program, our aggregate issuance of commercial paper will not exceed the amount of borrowings available under the facility.  

(See further discussion in this Item 7 under Receivables Securitization Facility for information regarding the Company’s receivables securitization facility.)  

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges  

For each of the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, our ratio of earnings to fixed charges was 13.5, 11.8, and 10.4, respectively. The ratio of earnings to fixed charges was computed on a consolidated basis. Earnings represent income from continuing operations, less equity earnings net of distributions, plus fixed charges and income taxes. Fixed charges represent interest charges, amortization of debt discount, and the estimated amount representing the interest portion of rental charges. (See Exhibit 12 to this report for the calculation of the ratio of earnings to fixed charges.)  

Common Shareholders’ Equity  

Dividend Restrictions – Our revolving credit facility includes a debt-to-net worth covenant (discussed in the Credit Facilities section above) that, under certain circumstances, restricts the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders. The amount of retained earnings available for dividends was $15.4 billion and $16.3 billion at December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Share Repurchase Program  

Effective January 1, 2014, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 120 million shares of our common stock by December 31, 2017, replacing our previous repurchase program. As of December 31, 2014, we repurchased a total of $12.6 billion of our common stock since the commencement of our repurchase programs in 2007. The table below represents shares repurchased in 2013 under our previous repurchase program, and shares repurchased in 2014 under the new program.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Management’s assessments of market conditions and other pertinent facts guide the timing and volume of all repurchases. We expect to fund any share repurchases under this program through cash generated from operations, the sale or lease of various operating and non-operating properties, debt issuances, and cash on hand. Repurchased shares are recorded in treasury stock at cost, which includes any applicable commissions and fees.  

From January 1, 2015, through February 6, 2015, we repurchased 2.8 million shares at an aggregate cost of approximately $327 million.  

Shelf Registration Statement and Significant New Borrowings – Under our current shelf registration, we may issue, from time to time, any combination of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, or warrants for debt securities or preferred stock in one or more offerings. We have no immediate plans to issue equity securities; however, we will continue to explore opportunities to replace existing debt or access capital through issuances of debt securities under our shelf registration, and, therefore, we may issue additional debt securities at any time.  

During 2014, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:  

  Date   Description of Securities 

  January 10, 2014   $300 million of 2.25% Notes due February 15, 2019 

    $400 million of 3.75% Notes due March 15, 2024 

    $300 million of 4.85% Notes due June 15, 2044 

  August 12, 2014   $350 million of 3.25% Notes due January 15, 2025 

     $350 million of 4.15% Notes due January 15, 2045  

We used the net proceeds from the offerings for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. At December 31, 2014, we had remaining authority to issue up to $1.15 billion of debt securities under our shelf registration.  

Subsequent Event – In 2015, we issued the following unsecured, fixed-rate debt securities under our current shelf registration:  

  Date   Description of Securities 

  January 29, 2015   $250 million of 1.80% Notes due February 1, 2020 

    $450 million of 3.375% Notes due February 1, 2035 

     $450 million of 3.875% Notes due February 1, 2055  

38  

Table of Contents 

Proceeds from this offering are for general corporate purposes, including the repurchase of common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program. These debt securities include change-of-control provisions. This offering exhausted our current authority to issue debt securities under our existing shelf registration.  

On February 5, 2015, the Board of Directors approved proceeding with a new shelf registration statement and authorized the issuance of up to $4.0 billion of debt securities.  

Equipment Trust – On May 20, 2014, UPRR consummated a pass-through (P/T) financing, whereby a P/T trust was created, which issued $500 million of P/T trust certificates with a stated interest rate of 3.227%. The P/T trust certificates will mature on May 14, 2026. The proceeds from the issuance of the P/T trust certificates (net of $3 million in transaction fees) were used to purchase equipment trust certificates to be issued by UPRR to finance the acquisition of 245 locomotives. The equipment trust certificates are secured by a lien on the locomotives.  

Debt Exchange – On August 21, 2013, we exchanged $1,170 million of various outstanding notes and debentures due between 2016 and 2040 (the Existing Notes) for $439 million of 3.646% notes (the New 2024 Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $700 million of 4.821% notes (the New 2044 Notes) due February 1, 2044, plus cash consideration of approximately $280 million in addition to $8 million for accrued and unpaid interest on the Existing Notes. In accordance with ASC 470-50-40, Debt-Modifications and Extinguishments-Derecognition, this transaction was accounted for as a debt exchange, as the exchanged debt instruments are not considered to be substantially different. The cash consideration was recorded as an adjustment to the carrying value of debt, and the balance of the unamortized discount and issue costs from the Existing Notes is being amortized as an adjustment of interest expense over the terms of the New 2024 Notes and the New 2044 Notes. No gain or loss was recognized as a result of the exchange. Costs related to the debt exchange that were payable to parties other than the debt holders totaled approximately $9 million and were included in interest expense during the three months ended September 30, 2013.  

The following table lists the outstanding notes and debentures that were exchanged:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Debt Redemption – On May 14, 2013, we redeemed all $40 million of our outstanding 5.65% Port of Corpus Christi Authority Revenue Refunding Bonds due December 1, 2022. The redemption resulted in an early extinguishment charge of $1 million in the second quarter of 2013.  

Receivables Securitization Facility – On July 29, 2014, we completed the renewal of our receivables securitization facility. The new $650 million, 3-year facility replaces the prior $600 million, 364-day facility. Under the facility, the Railroad sells most of its eligible third-party receivables to Union Pacific Receivables, Inc. (UPRI), a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary that may subsequently transfer, without recourse, an undivided interest in accounts receivable to investors. The investors have no  

39  

Table of Contents 

 recourse to the Railroad’s other assets except for customary warranty and indemnity claims. Creditors of the Railroad do not have recourse to the assets of UPRI.  

The amount outstanding under the facility was $400 million and $0 at December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, respectively. The facility was supported by $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion of accounts receivable as collateral at December 31, 2014, and December 31, 2013, respectively, which, as a retained interest, is included in accounts receivable, net in our Consolidated Statements of Financial Position.  

The outstanding amount the Railroad is allowed to maintain under the facility, with a maximum of $650 million, may fluctuate based on the availability of eligible receivables and is directly affected by business volumes and credit risks, including receivables payment quality measures such as default and dilution ratios. If default or dilution ratios increase one percent, the allowable outstanding amount under the facility would not materially change.  

The costs of the receivables securitization facility include interest, which will vary based on prevailing benchmark and commercial paper rates, program fees paid to participating banks, commercial paper issuing costs, and fees of participating banks for unused commitment availability. The costs of the receivables securitization facility are included in interest expense and were $4 million, $5 million and $3 million for 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively.  

Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments  

As described in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and as referenced in the tables below, we have contractual obligations and commercial commitments that may affect our financial condition. Based on our assessment of the underlying provisions and circumstances of our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, including material sources of off-balance sheet and structured finance arrangements, other than the risks that we and other similarly situated companies face with respect to the condition of the capital markets (as described in Item 1A of Part II of this report), there is no known trend, demand, commitment, event, or uncertainty that is reasonably likely to occur that would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. In addition, our commercial obligations, financings, and commitments are customary transactions that are similar to those of other comparable corporations, particularly within the transportation industry.  

The following tables identify material obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2014:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  Excludes capital lease obligations of $1,520 million and unamortized discount of $(591) million. Includes an interest component of $7,346 million.  

 [b]  Includes leases for locomotives, freight cars, other equipment, and real estate.  

 [c]  Represents total obligations, including interest component of $407 million.  

 [d]  Purchase obligations include locomotive maintenance contracts; purchase commitments for fuel purchases, locomotives, ties, ballast, rail, and aircraft; and agreements to purchase other goods and services. For amounts where we cannot reasonably estimate the year of settlement, they are reflected in the Other column.  

 [e]  Includes estimated other post retirement, medical, and life insurance payments, payments made under the unfunded pension plan for the next ten years.  

 [f]  Future cash flows for income tax contingencies reflect the recorded liabilities and assets for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, as of December 31, 2014. For amounts where the year of settlement is uncertain, they are reflected in the Other column.  

40  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [a]  None of the credit facility was used as of December 31, 2014.  

 [b]  $400 million of the receivables securitization facility was utilized as of December 31, 2014, which is accounted for as debt. The full program matures in July 2017.  

 [c]  Includes guaranteed obligations related to our equipment financings and affiliated operations.  

 [d]  None of the letters of credit were drawn upon as of December 31, 2014.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Guarantees – At December 31, 2014, and 2013, we were contingently liable for $82 million and $299 million in guarantees. We have recorded liabilities of $0.3 million and $1 million for the fair value of these obligations as of December 31, 2014, and 2013, respectively. We entered into these contingent guarantees in the normal course of business, and they include guaranteed obligations related to our equipment financings and affiliated operations. The final guarantee expires in 2022. We are not aware of any existing event of default that would require us to satisfy these guarantees. We do not expect that these guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity.  

OTHER MATTERS  

Labor Agreements – Approximately 85% of our 47,201 full-time-equivalent employees are represented by 14 major rail unions. On January 1, 2015, current labor agreements became subject to modification and we began the current round of negotiations with the unions. Existing agreements remain in effect until new agreements are reached or the Railway Labor Act’s procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention) are exhausted. Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time and we rarely experience work stoppages while negotiations are pending.  

Inflation – Long periods of inflation significantly increase asset replacement costs for capital-intensive companies. As a result, assuming that we replace all operating assets at current price levels, depreciation charges (on an inflation-adjusted basis) would be substantially greater than historically reported amounts.  

Derivative Financial Instruments – We may use derivative financial instruments in limited instances to assist in managing our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and fuel prices. We are not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. We formally document the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items at inception, as well as our risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions, and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Changes in the fair market value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are charged to earnings. We may use swaps, collars, futures, and/or forward contracts to mitigate the risk of adverse movements in interest rates and fuel prices; however, the use of these derivative financial instruments may limit future benefits from favorable price movements.  

Market and Credit Risk – We address market risk related to derivative financial instruments by selecting instruments with value fluctuations that highly correlate with the underlying hedged item. We manage credit risk related to derivative financial instruments, which is minimal, by requiring high credit standards for counterparties and periodic settlements. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, we were not required to provide collateral, nor had we received collateral, relating to our hedging activities.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Determination of Fair Value – We determine the fair values of our derivative financial instrument positions based upon current fair values as quoted by recognized dealers or the present value of expected future cash flows.  

Sensitivity Analyses – The sensitivity analyses that follow illustrate the economic effect that hypothetical changes in interest rates could have on our results of operations and financial condition. These hypothetical changes do not consider other factors that could impact actual results.  

At December 31, 2014, we had variable-rate debt representing approximately 5.3% of our total debt. If variable interest rates average one percentage point higher in 2015 than our December 31, 2014 variable rate, which was approximately 0.9%, our interest expense would increase by approximately $4 million. This amount was determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate on the balances of our variable-rate debt at December 31, 2014.  

Market risk for fixed-rate debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates as of December 31, 2014, and amounts to an increase of approximately $1.3 billion to the fair value of our debt at December 31, 2014. We estimated the fair values of our fixed-rate debt by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on quoted market prices and current borrowing rates.  

Interest Rate Fair Value Hedges – We manage our overall exposure to fluctuations in interest rates by adjusting the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt instruments within our debt portfolio over a given period. We generally manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the issuance of targeted amounts of each as debt matures or as we require incremental borrowings. We employ derivatives, primarily swaps, as one of the tools to obtain the targeted mix. In addition, we also obtain flexibility in managing interest costs and the interest rate mix within our debt portfolio by evaluating the issuance of and managing outstanding callable fixed-rate debt securities.  

Swaps allow us to convert debt from fixed rates to variable rates and thereby hedge the risk of changes in the debt’s fair value attributable to the changes in interest rates. We account for swaps as fair value hedges using the short-cut method as allowed by the Derivatives and Hedging Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC 815; therefore, we do not record any ineffectiveness within our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, we had no interest rate fair value hedges outstanding.  

Interest Rate Cash Flow Hedges – We report changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged item affects earnings. At December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had reductions of $0 and $1 million, respectively, recorded as an accumulated other comprehensive loss. As of December 31, 2014, and 2013, we had no interest rate cash flow hedges outstanding.  

Accounting Pronouncements – In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 (ASU 2014-09), Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASU 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition guidance in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods and services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in the exchange for those goods or services. This standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. ASU 2014-09 is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.  

Asserted and Unasserted Claims – Various claims and lawsuits are pending against us and certain of our subsidiaries. We cannot fully determine the effect of all asserted and unasserted claims on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity; however, to the extent possible, where asserted and unasserted claims are considered probable and where such claims can be reasonably estimated, we have recorded a liability. We do not expect that any known lawsuits, claims, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, or guarantees will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity after taking into account liabilities and insurance recoveries previously recorded for these matters.  

Indemnities – Our maximum potential exposure under indemnification arrangements, including certain tax indemnifications, can range from a specified dollar amount to an unlimited amount, depending on the  

42  

Table of Contents 

 nature of the transactions and the agreements. Due to uncertainty as to whether claims will be made or how they will be resolved, we cannot reasonably determine the probability of an adverse claim or reasonably estimate any adverse liability or the total maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements. We do not have any reason to believe that we will be required to make any material payments under these indemnity provisions.  

Climate Change – Although climate change could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial performance in the future (see Risk Factors under Item 1A of this report), we are currently unable to predict the manner or severity of such impact. However, we continue to take steps and explore opportunities to reduce the impact of our operations on the environment, including investments in new technologies, using training programs to reduce fuel consumption, and changing our operations to increase fuel efficiency.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires estimation and judgment that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The following critical accounting policies are a subset of our significant accounting policies described in Note 2 to the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8. These critical accounting policies affect significant areas of our financial statements and involve judgment and estimates. If these estimates differ significantly from actual results, the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements may be material.  

Personal Injury – The cost of personal injuries to employees and others related to our activities is charged to expense based on estimates of the ultimate cost and number of incidents each year. We use an actuarial analysis to measure the expense and liability, including unasserted claims. The Federal Employers’ Liability Act (FELA) governs compensation for work-related accidents. Under FELA, damages are assessed based on a finding of fault through litigation or out-of-court settlements. We offer a comprehensive variety of services and rehabilitation programs for employees who are injured at work.  

Our personal injury liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 93% of the recorded liability is related to asserted claims and approximately 7% is related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2014. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of personal injury claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $335 million to $368 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other. Estimates can vary over time due to evolving trends in litigation.  

Our personal injury liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

43  

Table of Contents 

Our personal injury claims activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2014, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2014, and 2013.  

Asbestos – We are a defendant in a number of lawsuits in which current and former employees and other parties allege exposure to asbestos. We assess our potential liability using a statistical analysis of resolution costs for asbestos-related claims. This liability is updated annually and excludes future defense and processing costs. The liability for resolving both asserted and unasserted claims was based on the following assumptions:  

   •    The ratio of future claims by alleged disease would be consistent with historical averages adjusted for inflation.  

   •    The number of claims filed against us will decline each year.  

   •    The average settlement values for asserted and unasserted claims will be equivalent to historical averages.  

   •    The percentage of claims dismissed in the future will be equivalent to historical averages.  

Our liability for asbestos-related claims is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments. Approximately 21% of the recorded liability related to asserted claims and approximately 79% related to unasserted claims at December 31, 2014. Because of the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate outcome of asbestos-related claims, it is reasonably possible that future costs to settle these claims may range from approximately $126 million to $135 million. We record an accrual at the low end of the range as no amount of loss within the range is more probable than any other.  

Our asbestos-related liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In conjunction with the liability update performed in 2014, we also reassessed our estimated insurance recoveries. We have recognized an asset for estimated insurance recoveries at December 31, 2014, and 2013. The amounts recorded for asbestos-related liabilities and related insurance recoveries were based on currently known facts. However, future events, such as the number of new claims filed each year, average settlement costs, and insurance coverage issues, could cause the actual costs and insurance recoveries to be higher or lower than the projected amounts. Estimates also may vary in the future if  

44  

Table of Contents 

 strategies, activities, and outcomes of asbestos litigation materially change; federal and state laws governing asbestos litigation increase or decrease the probability or amount of compensation of claimants; and there are material changes with respect to payments made to claimants by other defendants.  

Environmental Costs – We are subject to federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. We have identified 270 sites at which we are or may be liable for remediation costs associated with alleged contamination or for violations of environmental requirements. This includes 29 sites that are the subject of actions taken by the U.S. government, 16 of which are currently on the Superfund National Priorities List. Certain federal legislation imposes joint and several liability for the remediation of identified sites; consequently, our ultimate environmental liability may include costs relating to activities of other parties, in addition to costs relating to our own activities at each site.  

When we identify an environmental issue with respect to property owned, leased, or otherwise used in our business, we perform, with assistance of our consultants, environmental assessments on the property. We expense the cost of the assessments as incurred. We accrue the cost of remediation where our obligation is probable and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Our environmental liability is not discounted to present value due to the uncertainty surrounding the timing of future payments.  

Our environmental liability activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our environmental site activity was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The environmental liability includes future costs for remediation and restoration of sites, as well as ongoing monitoring costs, but excludes any anticipated recoveries from third parties. Cost estimates are based on information available for each site, financial viability of other potentially responsible parties, and existing technology, laws, and regulations. The ultimate liability for remediation is difficult to determine because of the number of potentially responsible parties, site-specific cost sharing arrangements with other potentially responsible parties, the degree of contamination by various wastes, the scarcity and quality of volumetric data related to many of the sites, and the speculative nature of remediation costs. Estimates of liability may vary over time due to changes in federal, state, and local laws governing environmental remediation. Current obligations are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  

Property and Depreciation – Our railroad operations are highly capital intensive, and our large base of homogeneous, network-type assets turns over on a continuous basis. Each year we develop a capital program for the replacement of assets and for the acquisition or construction of assets that enable us to enhance our operations or provide new service offerings to customers. Assets purchased or constructed throughout the year are capitalized if they meet applicable minimum units of property criteria. Properties and equipment are carried at cost and are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated service lives, which are measured in years, except for rail in high-density traffic corridors (i.e., all rail lines except for those subject to abandonment, yard and switching tracks, and electronic yards) for which lives are measured in millions of gross tons per mile of track. We use the group method of depreciation in which all items with similar characteristics, use, and expected lives are grouped together in asset classes,  

45  

Table of Contents 

 and are depreciated using composite depreciation rates. The group method of depreciation treats each asset class as a pool of resources, not as singular items. We currently have more than 60 depreciable asset classes, and we may increase or decrease the number of asset classes due to changes in technology, asset strategies, or other factors.  

We determine the estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property by means of depreciation studies. We perform depreciation studies at least every three years for equipment and every six years for track assets (i.e., rail and other track material, ties, and ballast) and other road property. Our depreciation studies take into account the following factors:  

   •    Statistical analysis of historical patterns of use and retirements of each of our asset classes;  

   •    Evaluation of any expected changes in current operations and the outlook for continued use of the assets;  

   •    Evaluation of technological advances and changes to maintenance practices; and  

   •    Expected salvage to be received upon retirement.  

For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we measure estimated service lives in millions of gross tons per mile of track. It has been our experience that the lives of rail in high-density traffic corridors are closely correlated to usage (i.e., the amount of weight carried over the rail). The service lives also vary based on rail weight, rail condition (e.g., new or secondhand), and rail type (e.g., straight or curve). Our depreciation studies for rail in high-density traffic corridors consider each of these factors in determining the estimated service lives. For rail in high-density traffic corridors, we calculate depreciation rates annually by dividing the number of gross ton-miles carried over the rail (i.e., the weight of loaded and empty freight cars, locomotives and maintenance of way equipment transported over the rail) by the estimated service lives of the rail measured in millions of gross tons per mile. Rail in high-density traffic corridors accounts for approximately 70 percent of the historical cost of rail and other track material. Based on the number of gross ton-miles carried over our rail in high density traffic corridors during 2014, the estimated service lives of the majority of this rail ranged from approximately 18 years to approximately 35 years. For all other depreciable assets, we compute depreciation based on the estimated service lives of our assets as determined from the analysis of our depreciation studies. Changes in the estimated service lives of our assets and their related depreciation rates are implemented prospectively.  

Estimated service lives of depreciable railroad property may vary over time due to changes in physical use, technology, asset strategies, and other factors that will have an impact on the retirement profiles of our assets. We are not aware of any specific factors that are reasonably likely to significantly change the estimated service lives of our assets. Actual use and retirement of our assets may vary from our current estimates, which would impact the amount of depreciation expense recognized in future periods.  

Changes in estimated useful lives of our assets due to the results of our depreciation studies could significantly impact future periods’ depreciation expense and have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were increased by one year, annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $63 million. If the estimated useful lives of all depreciable assets were decreased by one year, annual depreciation expense would increase by approximately $68 million. Our recent depreciation studies have resulted in lower depreciation rates for some asset classes. The lower rates combined with a projected higher depreciable asset base will increase total depreciation expense by approximately 4% to 6% in 2015 versus 2014.  

Under group depreciation, the historical cost (net of salvage) of depreciable property that is retired or replaced in the ordinary course of business is charged to accumulated depreciation and no gain or loss is recognized. The historical cost of certain track assets is estimated using (i) inflation indices published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics and (ii) the estimated useful lives of the assets as determined by our depreciation studies. The indices were selected because they closely correlate with the major costs of the properties comprising the applicable track asset classes. Because of the number of estimates inherent in the depreciation and retirement processes and because it is impossible to precisely estimate each of these variables until a group of property is completely retired, we continually monitor the estimated service lives of our assets and the accumulated depreciation associated with each asset class to ensure our depreciation rates are appropriate. In addition, we determine if the recorded amount of accumulated depreciation is deficient (or in excess) of the amount indicated by our depreciation studies. Any deficiency (or excess) is amortized as a component of depreciation expense over the remaining service lives of the applicable classes of assets.  

46  

Table of Contents 

For retirements of depreciable railroad properties that do not occur in the normal course of business, a gain or loss may be recognized if the retirement meets each of the following three conditions: (i) it is unusual, (ii) it is material in amount, and (iii) it varies significantly from the retirement profile identified through our depreciation studies. During the last three fiscal years, no gains or losses were recognized due to the retirement of depreciable railroad properties. A gain or loss is recognized in other income when we sell land or dispose of assets that are not part of our railroad operations.  

Income Taxes – We account for income taxes by recording taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. These expected future tax consequences are measured based on current tax law; the effects of future tax legislation are not anticipated. Future tax legislation, such as a change in the corporate tax rate, could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. For example, a 1% increase in future income tax rates would increase our deferred tax liability by approximately $380 million.  

When appropriate, we record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets to reflect that these tax assets may not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is appropriate, we consider whether it is more likely than not that all or some portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, based on management’s judgments using available evidence for purposes of estimating whether future taxable income will be sufficient to realize a deferred tax asset. In 2014 and 2013, there were no valuation allowances.  

We recognize tax benefits that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized upon settlement. A liability for “unrecognized tax benefits” is recorded for any tax benefits claimed in our tax returns that do not meet these recognition and measurement standards.  

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits – We use an actuarial analysis to measure the liabilities and expenses associated with providing pension and medical and life insurance benefits (OPEB) to eligible employees. In order to use actuarial methods to value the liabilities and expenses, we must make several assumptions. The critical assumptions used to measure pension obligations and expenses are the discount rate and expected rate of return on pension assets. For OPEB, the critical assumptions are the discount rate and health care cost trend rate.  

We evaluate our critical assumptions at least annually, and selected assumptions are based on the following factors:  

   •    Discount rate is based on a Mercer yield curve of high quality corporate bonds (rated AA by a recognized rating agency) for which the timing and amount of cash flows matches our plans’ expected benefit payments.  

   •    Expected return on plan assets is based on our asset allocation mix and our historical return, taking into consideration current and expected market conditions.  

   •    Health care cost trend rate is based on our historical rates of inflation and expected market conditions.  

The following tables present the key assumptions used to measure net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) for 2014 and the estimated impact on 2014 net periodic pension and OPEB cost/(benefit) relative to a change in those assumptions:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

47  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The following table presents the net periodic pension and OPEB cost for the years ended December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our net periodic pension cost is expected to increase to approximately $105 million in 2015 from $69 million in 2014. Our net periodic OPEB expense is expected to increase to approximately $18 million in 2015 from $15 million in 2014. The increases are driven by the implementation of new mortality tables issued by the Society of Actuaries in October 2014, along with a decrease in the pension discount rate to 3.94% and a decrease in the OPEB discount rate to 3.74%.  

CAUTIONARY INFORMATION  

Certain statements in this report, and statements in other reports or information filed or to be filed with the SEC (as well as information included in oral statements or other written statements made or to be made by us), are, or will be, forward-looking statements as defined by the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements and information include, without limitation, (A) statements in the Chairman’s letter preceding Part I; statements regarding planned capital expenditures under the caption “2015 Capital Expenditures” in Item 2 of Part I; statements regarding dividends in Item 5 of Part II; and statements and information set forth under the captions “2015 Outlook” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Item 7 of Part II, and (B) any other statements or information in this report (including information incorporated herein by reference) regarding: expectations as to financial performance, revenue growth and cost savings; the time by which goals, targets, or objectives will be achieved; projections, predictions, expectations, estimates, or forecasts as to our business, financial and operational results, future economic performance, and general economic conditions; expectations as to operational or service performance or improvements; expectations as to the effectiveness of steps taken or to be taken to improve operations and/or service, including capital expenditures for infrastructure improvements and equipment acquisitions, any strategic business acquisitions, and modifications to our transportation plans; expectations as to existing or proposed new products and services; expectations as to the impact of any new regulatory activities or legislation on our operations or financial results; estimates of costs relating to environmental remediation and restoration; estimates and expectations regarding tax matters; expectations that claims, litigation, environmental costs, commitments, contingent liabilities, labor negotiations or agreements, or other matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity and any other similar expressions concerning matters that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements may be identified by their use of forward-looking terminology, such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “should,” “would,” “will,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “anticipates,” “projects” and similar words, phrases or expressions.  

Forward-looking statements should not be read as a guarantee of future performance or results, and will not necessarily be accurate indications of the times that, or by which, such performance or results will be achieved. Forward-looking statements and information are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual performance or results to differ materially from those expressed in the statements and information. Forward-looking statements and information reflect the good faith consideration by management of currently available information, and may be based on underlying assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. However, such information and assumptions (and, therefore, such forward-looking statements and information) are or may be subject to variables or unknown or unforeseeable events or circumstances over which management has little or no influence or control. The Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report could affect our future results and could cause those results or other outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements or  

48  

Table of Contents 

 information. To the extent circumstances require or we deem it otherwise necessary, we will update or amend these risk factors in a Form 10-Q, Form 8-K or subsequent Form 10-K. All forward-looking statements are qualified by, and should be read in conjunction with, these Risk Factors.  

Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statement was made. We assume no obligation to update forward-looking information to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting forward-looking information. If we do update one or more forward-looking statements, no inference should be drawn that we will make additional updates with respect thereto or with respect to other forward-looking statements.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk