Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Registrant’s reportable segments have been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for  

segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of customer and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The reportable segments are Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking. The Company’s international activities are discussed in note 17 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

The only activities that, as a class, contributed 10% or more of the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in any of the last three years were interest on loans and investment securities and fees for providing deposit account services. The amount of income from such sources during those years is set forth on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Supervision and Regulation of the Company  

M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank and financial holding companies and their subsidiaries. Regulation of financial institutions such as M&T and its subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC’s DIF and the banking system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of stockholders, creditors or other investors. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to M&T and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of M&T and its subsidiaries.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Overview  

M&T is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) as a bank holding company under the BHCA. As such, M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHCA and the regulations of the Federal Reserve Board.  

In general, the BHCA limits the business of a bank holding company (“BHC”) to banking, managing or controlling banks and other activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board), without prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments.  

To maintain financial holding company status, a financial holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” M&T became a financial holding company on March 1, 2011. If a financial holding company fails to continue to meet any of the prerequisites for financial holding company status after engaging in activities not permissible for bank holding companies that have not elected to be treated as financial holding companies, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve Board may order the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a bank holding company electing to be treated as a financial holding company. In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity permitted by the BHCA or to acquire a company engaged in any new activity permitted by the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have at least a “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the “CRA”). See the section captioned “Community Reinvestment Act” included elsewhere in this item.  

Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which the federal banking agencies will regulate the banking activities of financial holding companies and banks’ financial subsidiaries, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will regulate their securities activities, and state insurance regulators will regulate their insurance activities. Rules developed by the federal financial institutions regulators under these laws require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent the disclosure of certain personal information to nonaffiliated third parties.  

Recent Developments  

The events of the past few years have led to numerous new laws in the United States and internationally for financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act” or “Dodd-Frank”), which was enacted in July 2010, significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States and provides for enhanced supervision and prudential standards for, among other things, bank holding companies like M&T that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for the Company’s businesses will depend to a large extent on the manner in which rules adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act are implemented by the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies as well as potential changes in market practices and structures in response to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and financial reforms in other jurisdictions. Among other things:  

   —    Dodd-Frank repealed the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts.  

   —    Dodd-Frank centralized responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”), and giving it responsibility for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer protection laws.  

   —    Dodd-Frank provided that debit card interchange fees must be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. This provision is known as the “Durbin Amendment.” In June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board adopted regulations setting the maximum permissible interchange fee as the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction, with an additional adjustment of up to one cent per transaction if the  

7  

Table of Contents 

     issuer implements certain fraud-prevention standards. For more information regarding the impact of the Durbin Amendment on M&T’s results of operations, see Part II, Item 7.  

   —    Dodd-Frank created a new systemic risk oversight body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”), to oversee and coordinate the efforts of the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies in establishing regulations to address financial stability concerns.  

   —    Dodd-Frank directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the Federal Reserve Board as to enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to large, interconnected financial institutions, including as indicated above bank holding companies like M&T with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more (often referred to as “systemically important financial institutions”), and authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to establish such standards either on its own or upon the recommendations of the FSOC. Dodd-Frank mandates that the requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions be more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies. In December 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued for public comment a notice of proposed rulemaking establishing enhanced prudential standards responsive to these provisions for:  

   —    risk-based capital requirements and leveraged limits;  

   —    stress testing of capital;  

   —    liquidity requirements;  

   —    overall risk management requirements;  

   —    resolution plan and credit exposure reporting; and  

   —    concentration/credit exposure limits.  

Comments on the proposed rules (the “Proposed SIFI Rules”) are due by March 31, 2012. The Proposed SIFI Rules address a wide, diverse array of regulatory areas, each of which is highly complex. In some cases they would implement financial regulatory requirements being proposed for the first time, and in others over-lap with other regulatory reforms (including the Basel III capital and liquidity reforms discussed below in this section). The requirements generally will become effective on the first day of the fifth calendar quarter after the effective date of the final rule, although certain requirements have different transition periods. M&T is analyzing the impact of the Proposed SIFI Rules on its businesses. However, the full impact will not be known until the rules, and other regulatory initiatives that overlap with the rules, are finalized and their combined impacts can be understood.  

   —    Dodd-Frank requires various U.S. financial regulatory agencies to implement comprehensive rules governing the supervision, structure, trading and regulation of swap and over-the-counter derivative markets and participants. Dodd-Frank requires a large number of rulemaking in this area, many of which are not yet final. Once these rules are finalized, they could affect the way M&T or its subsidiaries operate, and changes to the markets and participants could impact business models and profitability of M&T or its subsidiaries.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal financial regulatory agencies to adopt rules that prohibit banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain unregistered investment companies (defined as hedge funds and private equity funds), with implementation starting as early as July 2012. The statutory provision is commonly called the “Volcker Rule”. In October 2011, federal regulators proposed rules to implement the Volcker Rule that included an extensive request for comments on the proposal, which were due by February 13, 2012. The proposed rules are highly complex, and many aspects of their application remain uncertain. Based on the proposed rules, M&T does not currently anticipate that the Volcker Rule will have a material effect on the operations of M&T and its subsidiaries. Until a final rule is adopted, the precise financial impact of the rule on M&T, its customers or the financial industry more generally, cannot be determined.  

New laws or regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations (including changes in interpretation or enforcement) could materially adversely affect M&T’s financial condition or results of operations. As discussed further throughout this section, many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on M&T and its subsidiaries or the financial services industry generally. In addition to the  

8  

Table of Contents 

 discussion in this section, see “Recent Legislative Developments” in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of the potential impact legislative and regulatory reforms may have on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.  

Dividends  

The Registrant is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Historically, the majority of the Registrant’s revenue has been from dividends paid to the Registrant by its subsidiary banks. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are subject, under one or more of the banking laws, to restrictions on the amount of dividend declarations. Future dividend payments to the Registrant by its subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors, including the earnings and financial condition of each such bank, and are subject to the limitations referred to in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and to other statutory powers of bank regulatory agencies.  

An insured depository institution is prohibited from making any capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if, after making such distribution, the depository institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure, including the risk-based capital adequacy and leverage standards discussed herein.  

Dividend payments by M&T to its shareholders and stock repurchases by M&T are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve Board. As described below under the heading “Federal Reserve Board’s Comprehensive Capital Assessment Review”, dividends and stock repurchases generally may only be paid or made under a capital plan as to which the Federal Reserve Board has not objected.  

As described herein under the heading “U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program”, in connection with the issuance of Series A Preferred Stock to the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”), M&T is restricted from increasing its common stock dividend.  

Supervision and Regulation of M&T Bank’s Subsidiaries  

M&T Bank has a number of subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulations of both the federal government and the various states in which they conduct business. For example, M&T Securities is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators.  

Federal Reserve Board’s Comprehensive Capital Assessment Review  

In November 2011, the Federal Reserve Board published a final rule requiring bank holding companies (including M&T) with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets to submit annual capital plans to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank. The capital analysis and review process provided for in the rule is known as the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or “CCAR”. The capital plans are required to be submitted on an annual basis. Such bank holding companies will also be required to collect and report certain related data on a quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve Board to monitor the companies’ progress against their annual capital plans. The comprehensive capital plans, which are prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, include a view of capital adequacy under four scenarios – a BHC-defined baseline scenario, a baseline scenario provided by the Federal Reserve Board, at least one BHC-defined stress scenario, and a stress scenario provided by the Federal Reserve Board. Covered bank holding companies, including M&T, may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by the Federal Reserve Board and as to which the Federal Reserve Board has not objected. The rules provide that the Federal Reserve Board may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and maintain a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5% on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. The rules also require, among other things, that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless after giving effect to the distribution it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. As part of this process, M&T also provides the Federal Reserve Board with projections covering the time period it will take to fully comply with Basel III capital guidelines, including the 7% Tier 1 common equity, 8.5% Tier 1 capital and 3% leverage ratios as well as granular components of those elements. M&T’s capital plan was filed with the Federal Reserve Board on January 9, 2012.  

9  

Table of Contents 

 The purpose of the Federal Reserve Board’s capital plan review is to ensure that these bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each BHC’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. The CCAR rule, consistent with prior Federal Reserve Board guidance, provides that capital plans contemplating dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of projected after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.  

Capital Requirements  

M&T and its subsidiary banks are required to comply with the applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve Board. There are two basic measures of capital adequacy for bank holding companies that have been promulgated by the Federal Reserve Board: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure.  

Risk-based Capital Standards. The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among banks and financial holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items.  

The minimum guideline for the ratio of total capital (“Total Capital”) to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8.0%. At least half of the Total Capital must be “Tier 1 Capital,” which currently consists of qualifying common equity, qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), senior perpetual preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program — Capital Purchase Program (the “CPP”), minority interests relating to qualifying common or noncumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, and certain “restricted core capital elements,” as discussed below, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Currently, “Tier 2 Capital” may consist of, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt, mandatorily convertible debt securities, preferred stock and trust preferred securities not included in the definition of Tier 1 Capital, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. Non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, trust preferred securities and other so-called “restricted core capital elements” are currently limited to 25% of Tier 1 Capital. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be phased-out of the definition of Tier 1 Capital of bank holding companies having consolidated assets exceeding $500 million, such as M&T, over a three-year period beginning in January 2013.  

The minimum guideline to be considered well-capitalized for Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital is 6.0% and 10.0%, respectively. At December 31, 2011, the Registrant’s consolidated Tier 1 Capital ratio was 9.67% and its Total Capital ratio was 13.26%. The elements currently comprising Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital and the minimum Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios may in the future be subject to change, as discussed in greater detail below.  

Basel I and II Standards. M&T currently calculates its risk-based capital ratios under guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve Board based on the 1988 Capital Accord (“Basel I”) of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). In 2004, the Basel Committee published a new set of risk-based capital standards (“Basel II”) in order to update Basel I. Basel II provides two approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk — an internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’ circumstances and a standardized approach that bases risk-weighting on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in the existing risk-based capital guidelines. Basel II also would set capital requirements for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures. A definitive final rule for implementing the advanced approaches of Basel II in the United States, which applies only to internationally active banking organizations, or “core banks” (defined as those with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion or more) became effective on April 1, 2008. Other U.S. banking organizations may elect to adopt the requirements of this rule (if they meet applicable qualification requirements), but are not required to comply. The rule also allows a banking organization’s primary federal supervisor to determine that application of the rule would not be appropriate in light of the bank’s asset size, level of complexity, risk profile or scope of operations. Neither M&T Bank nor Wilmington Trust, N.A. is currently required to comply with Basel II.  

In July 2008, the U.S. bank regulatory agencies issued a proposed rule that would provide banking organizations that do not use the advanced approaches with the option to implement a new risk-based capital framework. This framework would adopt the standardized approach of Basel II for credit risk, the basic indicator approach of Basel II for operational risk, and related disclosure requirements. While this proposed rule generally parallels the relevant approaches under Basel II, it diverges where United States  

10  

Table of Contents 

 markets have unique characteristics and risk profiles, most notably with respect to risk weighting residential mortgage exposures. Comments on the proposed rule were due to the agencies by October 27, 2008, but a definitive final rule has not been issued as of February 2012.  

Leverage Requirements. Neither Basel I nor Basel II includes a leverage requirement as an international standard, however, the Federal Reserve Board has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines to be considered well-capitalized for bank holding companies. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 Capital to average total assets, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets (the “Leverage Ratio”), of 3.0% for bank holding companies that meet certain specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies generally are required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 4%. M&T’s Leverage Ratio at December 31, 2011 was 9.28%.  

The guidelines also provide that bank holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board has indicated that it will consider a “tangible Tier 1 Capital leverage ratio” (deducting all intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities.  

Basel III Standards. In December 2010, the Basel Committee released its final framework for strengthening international capital and liquidity regulation, now officially identified by the Basel Committee as “Basel III.” Basel III, when implemented by the U.S. bank regulatory agencies and fully phased-in, will require bank holding companies and their bank subsidiaries to maintain substantially more capital, with a greater emphasis on common equity. The Basel III final capital framework, among other things:  

   —    introduces as a new capital measure “Common Equity Tier 1”, or “CET1”, specifies that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, defines CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions or adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, and expands the scope of the deductions or adjustments as compared to existing regulations;  

   —    when fully phased in on January 1, 2019, requires banks to maintain:  

   —    as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%);  

   —    a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation);  

   —    a minimum ratio of Total (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation);  

   —    as a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio of 3%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to balance sheet exposures plus certain off-balance sheet exposures (as the average for each quarter of the month-end ratios for the quarter); and  

   —    provides for a “countercyclical capital buffer”, generally to be imposed when national regulators determine that excess aggregate credit growth becomes associated with a buildup of systemic risk, that would be a CET1 add-on to the capital conservation buffer in the range of 0% to 2.5% when fully implemented (potentially resulting in total buffers of between 2.5% and 5%).  

The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer (or below the combined capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer, when the latter is applied) will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.  

In July 2011, the Basel Committee introduced a consultative document establishing a requirement for a capital surcharge on certain globally systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”), and in November 2011, the Basel Committee issued final provisions substantially unchanged from the previous proposal. An “indicator-based approach” will be used to determine whether a bank is a G-SIB and the appropriate level of the surcharge to be applied. The “indicator-based approach” consists of five broad categories: size, interconnectedness, lack of substitutability, cross-jurisdictional activity and complexity. Banks found to be G-SIBs will be subject to a progressive CET1 surcharge ranging from 1% to 3.5% over the Basel III 7% CET1 requirement. The surcharge will become fully effective on January 1, 2019.  

11  

Table of Contents 

The implementation of the Basel III final framework will commence January 1, 2013. On that date, banking institutions will be required to meet the following minimum capital ratios before the application of any buffer:  

   —    3.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;  

   —    4.5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets; and  

   —    8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.  

The Basel III final framework provides for a number of new deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1.  

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 will begin on January 1, 2014 and will be phased-in over a five-year period (20% per year). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at 0.625% and be phased in over a four-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).  

The timing for the U.S. banking agency’s publication of proposed rules to implement the Basel III capital framework and the implementation schedule is uncertain. The release accompanying the Proposed SIFI Rules appears to indicate that rules implementing Basel III will be published for comment during the first quarter of 2012. The regulations ultimately applicable to M&T may be substantially different from the Basel III final framework as published in December 2010.  

The Dodd-Frank Act appears to require the Federal Reserve Board to adopt regulations imposing a continuing “floor” of the Basel I-based capital requirements in cases where the Basel II-based capital requirements and any changes in capital regulations resulting from Basel III otherwise would permit lower requirements. In December 2010, the Federal Reserve Board published for comment proposed regulations implementing this requirement. On June 14, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board, FDIC and OCC jointly approved a final rule which requires a banking organization operating under the agencies’ advanced approaches risk-based capital rules to adhere to the higher of the minimum requirements under the general risk-based capital rules and the minimum requirements under the advanced approaches risk-based capital rules.  

Liquidity Ratios under Basel III. Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures historically applied by banks and regulators for management and supervisory purposes, going forward will be required by regulation. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incent banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source. The Basel III liquidity framework contemplates that the LCR will be subject to an observation period continuing through mid-2013 and, subject to any revisions resulting from the analyses conducted and data collected during the observation period, implemented as a minimum standard on January 1, 2015. Similarly, it contemplates that the NSFR will be subject to an observation period through mid-2016 and, subject to any revisions resulting from the analyses conducted and data collected during the observation period, implemented as a minimum standard by January 1, 2018. These new standards are subject to further rulemaking and their terms may well change before implementation.  

The Proposed SIFI Rules address liquidity requirements for bank holding companies, including M&T, with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. In the release accompanying those rules, the Federal Reserve Board states a general intention to incorporate the Basel III liquidity framework for the bank holding companies covered by the Proposed SIFI Rules or a “subset” of those bank holding companies. Although these rules do not include prescriptive ratios like the LCR and NSFR, they do include detailed liquidity-related requirements, including requirements for cashflow projections, liquidity stress testing (including, at a minimum, over time horizons that include an overnight time horizon, a 30-day time  

12  

Table of Contents 

 horizon, a 90-day time horizon and a 1-year time horizon), and a requirement that covered bank holding companies maintain a liquidity buffer of unencumbered highly liquid assets sufficient to meet projected net cash outflows and the projected loss or impairment of existing funding sources for 30 days over a range of liquidity stress scenarios.  

Capital Requirements of Subsidiary Depository Institutions. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are subject to substantially similar capital requirements as those applicable to M&T. As of December 31, 2011, both M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. were in compliance with applicable minimum capital requirements. None of M&T, M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A. has been advised by any federal banking agency of a failure to meet any specific minimum capital ratio requirement applicable to it as of December 31, 2011. Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank to a variety of enforcement remedies, including the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on its business. See “Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” below.  

Given that the Basel III rules are subject to change and the scope and content of capital regulations that U.S. federal banking agencies may adopt under the Dodd-Frank Act is uncertain, M&T cannot be certain of the impact new capital regulations will have on its capital ratios or those of its bank subsidiaries.  

Safety and Soundness Standards  

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”), establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of the FDIA. See “Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” below. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.  

Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA  

The FDIA establishes a system of regulatory remedies to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions. The federal banking regulators have established five capital categories (“well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”) and must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions which are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depend upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. The federal bank regulatory agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital levels for each category:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

13  

Table of Contents 

For purposes of these regulations, the term “tangible equity” includes core capital elements counted as Tier 1 Capital for purposes of the risk-based capital standards plus the amount of outstanding cumulative perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), minus all intangible assets with certain exceptions. An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be classified as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment.  

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The bank holding company must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The obligation of a controlling bank holding company under the FDIA to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of an undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are significantly undercapitalized or undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator.  

Support of Subsidiary Banks  

Under longstanding Federal Reserve Board policy which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, M&T is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary banks. This support may be required at times when M&T may not be inclined to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.  

Cross-Guarantee Provisions  

Each insured depository institution “controlled” (as defined in the BHCA) by the same bank holding company can be held liable to the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any other insured depository institution controlled by that holding company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of those banks that is in danger of default. The FDIC’s claim under the cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its holding company and to most claims arising out of obligations or liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository institution. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisions if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the DIF.  

Transactions with Affiliates  

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which M&T and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. In general, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Board Act and Federal Reserve Board Regulation W require that any “covered transaction” by M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. (or any of their respective subsidiaries) with an affiliate must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and must be limited to (a) in the case of any single such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of such insured depository institution, and (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of an  

14  

Table of Contents 

 insured depository institution and its subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of such insured depository institution. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expanded the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization, including for example, the requirement that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions begin to apply to financial subsidiaries. “Covered transactions” are defined by statute to include, among other things, a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve Board) from the affiliate, certain derivative transactions that create a credit exposure to an affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. All covered transactions, including certain additional transactions (such as transactions with a third party in which an affiliate has a financial interest), must be conducted on market terms.  

FDIC Insurance Assessments  

Deposit Insurance Assessments. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. pay deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC.  

On April 1, 2011, the deposit insurance assessment base changed from total domestic deposits to the average consolidated total assets of the depository institution minus its average tangible equity, pursuant to a rule issued by the FDIC as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Additionally, the FDIC revised the deposit insurance assessment system to create a two scorecard system for large institutions, one for most large institutions that have more than $10 billion in assets, such as M&T Bank, and another for “highly complex” institutions that have over $50 billion in assets and are fully owned by a parent with over $500 billion in assets. Each scorecard has a performance score and a loss-severity score that is combined to produce a total score, which is translated into an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC utilizes the bank’s capital level and supervisory ratings (its “CAMELS” ratings) and certain new forward-looking financial measures to assess an institution’s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The new assessment rule also eliminates the use of risk categories and long-term debt issuer ratings for calculating risk-based assessments for institutions having more than $10 billion in assets. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score, up or down, based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the scorecard. The total score is then translated to an initial base assessment rate on a non-linear, sharply-increasing scale.  

For large institutions, including M&T Bank, the initial base assessment rate ranges from 5 to 35 basis points (hundredths of one percent) on an annualized basis. After the effect of potential base-rate adjustments, the total base assessment rate could range from 2.5 to 45 basis points on an annualized basis. The potential adjustments to an institution’s initial base assessment rate include (i) a potential decrease of up to 5 basis points for certain long-term unsecured debt and (ii) (except for well-capitalized institutions with a CAMELS rating of 1 or 2) a potential increase of up to 10 basis points for brokered deposits in excess of 10% of domestic deposits. As the DIF reserve ratio grows, the rate schedule will be adjusted downward. Additionally, the rule includes a new adjustment for depository institution debt whereby an institution will pay an additional premium equal to 50 basis points on every dollar (above 3% of an institution’s Tier 1 capital) of long-term, unsecured debt held that was issued by another insured depository institution (excluding debt guaranteed under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program).  

In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new restoration plan to ensure the designated reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 2020. The FDIC will, at least semi-annually, update its income and loss projections for the DIF and, if necessary, propose rules to further increase assessment rates.  

On November 17, 2009, the FDIC implemented a final rule requiring insured institutions, such as M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A., to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. Such prepaid assessments were paid on December 30, 2009, along with each institution’s quarterly risk-based deposit insurance assessment for the third quarter of 2009 (assuming 5% annual growth in deposits between the third quarter of 2009 and the end of 2012 and taking into account, for 2011 and 2012, the annualized three basis point increase discussed below). The remaining amount of prepaid insurance assessments at December 31, 2011 related to 2012 for M&T Bank was $89.2 million and for Wilmington Trust, N.A. was $1.7 million.  

In November 2010, the FDIC issued a final rule to implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act that provide for temporary unlimited coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts. The separate coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction accounts became effective on December 31, 2010 and terminates on December 31, 2012.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.  

FICO Assessments. In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. M&T Bank recognized $5 million of expense related to its FICO assessments and Wilmington Trust, N.A. recognized $51 thousand of such expense in 2011.  

Acquisitions  

The BHCA requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. Since July 2011, financial holding companies and bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion, such as M&T, have been required to (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring certain nonbank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Since July 2011, bank holding companies seeking approval to complete an acquisition have been required to be well-capitalized and well-managed.  

The BHCA further provides that the Federal Reserve Board may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve Board is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties’ performance under the CRA. The Federal Reserve Board must take into account the institutions’ effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHCA was amended to require the Federal Reserve Board, when evaluating a proposed transaction, to consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system.  

U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program  

Pursuant to the CPP, on December 23, 2008, M&T issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury in a private offering (i) $600 million of Series A Preferred Stock and (ii) a warrant to purchase 1,218,522 shares of M&T Common Stock at an exercise price of $73.86 per share, subject to certain anti-dilution and other adjustments. M&T elected to participate in the capital purchase program at an amount equal to approximately 1% of its risk-weighted assets at the time. On May 18, 2011, M&T redeemed and retired $370 million of the Series A Preferred Stock. In connection with its acquisition of Provident on May 23, 2009, M&T issued $151.5 million of Series C Preferred Stock in exchange for the securities issued by Provident to the U.S. Treasury on November 14, 2008, and assumed a warrant issued by Provident to the U.S. Treasury, which, on a converted basis, provides for the purchase of 407,542 shares of M&T Common Stock at $55.76 per share.  

The securities purchase agreement, dated December 23, 2008, pursuant to which the securities issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP were sold, limits the payment of quarterly dividends on M&T’s common stock to $0.70 per share without prior approval of the U.S. Treasury, limits M&T’s ability to repurchase shares of its common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based compensation awards), grants the holders of the Series A Preferred  

16  

Table of Contents 

 Stock, the Warrant and the common stock of M&T to be issued under the warrant certain registration rights, and subjects M&T to certain of the executive compensation limitations included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”), described below under “Executive and Incentive Compensation”. The securities purchase agreement between Provident and the U.S. Treasury, to which M&T succeeded, has the same limitations and effects.  

Executive and Incentive Compensation  

ARRA, an economic stimulus package signed into law on February 17, 2009, significantly expanded the restrictions on executive compensation that were included in Section 111 of EESA and imposed various corporate governance standards on recipients of TARP funds, including under the U.S. Treasury’s capital purchase program, until such funds are repaid. On June 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury issued the TARP Interim Final Rule to clarify and provide additional guidance with respect to the restrictions on executive compensation that apply to executives and certain other employees of TARP recipients that includes: (i) a prohibition on paying bonuses, retention awards and incentive compensation, other than long-term restricted stock or pursuant to certain preexisting employment contracts, to its Senior Executive Officers (“SEOs”) and next 20 most highly-compensated employees; (ii) a prohibition on the payment of “golden parachute payments” to its SEOs and next five most highly compensated employees; (iii) a prohibition on paying incentive compensation for “unnecessary and excessive risks” and earnings manipulations; (iv) a requirement to clawback any bonus, retention award, or incentive compensation paid to a SEO and any of the next twenty most highly compensated employees based on statements of earnings, revenues, gains, or other criteria later found to be materially inaccurate; (v) a requirement to establish a policy on luxury or excessive expenditures, including entertainment or events, office and facility renovations, company owned aircraft and other transportation and similar activities or events; (vi) a requirement to provide shareholders with a non-binding advisory “say on pay” vote on executive compensation; (vii) a prohibition on deducting more than $500,000 in annual compensation or performance based compensation for the SEOs under Internal Revenue Code Section 162(m); (viii) a requirement that the compensation committee of the board of directors evaluate and review on a semi-annual basis the risks involved in employee compensation plans; and (ix) a requirement that the chief executive officer and chief financial officer provide written certifications of compliance with the foregoing requirements.  

Guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the FDIA prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies (the “Incentive Compensation Guidance”) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Incentive Compensation Guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. These three principles are incorporated into the proposed joint compensation regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, discussed above. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The Incentive Compensation Guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies and the Securities and Exchange Commission to establish joint regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities, such as M&T and M&T Bank, having at least $1 billion in total assets that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to regulators of incentive-based compensation arrangements. The agencies proposed such regulations in April  

17  

Table of Contents 

 2011, which may become effective before the end of 2012. If the regulations are adopted in the form initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which M&T may structure compensation for its executives.  

The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of M&T and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees.  

Resolution Planning  

As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve Board and FDIC have jointly issued a final rule that requires certain organizations, including bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, to report periodically to regulators a resolution plan for their rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. M&T’s resolution plan must, among other things, ensure that its depository institution subsidiaries are adequately protected from risks arising from its other subsidiaries. The final rule sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan’s components, a description of the range of specific actions the company proposes to take in resolution, and a description of the company’s organizational structure, material entities, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.  

In addition, the FDIC has issued a final rule that requires insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as M&T Bank, to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure. The rule requires these insured institutions to submit a resolution plan that will enable the FDIC, as receiver, to resolve the bank in a manner that ensures that depositors receive access to their insured deposits within one business day of the institution’s failure, maximizes the net-present-value return from the sale or disposition of its assets, and minimizes the amount of any loss to be realized by the institution’s creditors. The final rule also sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan’s components, a description of the strategies for achieving the least costly resolution, and analyses of the financial company’s organization, material entities, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements.  

Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company  

If the FDIC is appointed as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution such as M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A., upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:  

   —    to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor, including a newly formed “bridge” bank without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors;  

   —    to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms without regard to any provisions triggered by the appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or  

   —    to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.  

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A., the debt holders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the bank. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime (known as “orderly liquidation authority”) for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding companies and their affiliates. Under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver for the systemically important institution, and its failed non-bank subsidiaries, for purposes of liquidating the entity if, among other conditions, it is determined at the time of the institution’s failure that it is in default or in danger of default and the failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S. financial system.  

If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, then the powers of the receiver, and the rights and obligations of creditors and other parties who have dealt with the institution, would be determined under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, and not under the insolvency law that would  

18  

Table of Contents 

 otherwise apply. The powers of the receiver under the orderly liquidation authority were based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver for depository institutions under the FDIA. However, the provisions governing the rights of creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified in certain respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors’ claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist as between these two regimes, including the right of the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors’ claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity.  

The orderly liquidation authority provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective upon enactment. However, a number of rulemakings are required under the terms of Dodd-Frank, and a number of provisions of the new authority require clarification. The FDIC has completed its initial phase of rulemaking under the orderly liquidation authority, but additional rules are under consideration.  

An orderly liquidation fund will fund such liquidation proceedings through borrowings from the Treasury Department and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, M&T could face assessments for the orderly liquidation fund.  

Depositor Preference  

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are payable only outside of the United States and the parent bank holding company, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution.  

Financial Privacy  

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services.  

Consumer Protection Laws  

In connection with their respective lending and leasing activities, M&T Bank, Wilmington Trust, N.A., and certain of their subsidiaries, are each subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and various state law counterparts.  

In addition, federal law currently contains extensive customer privacy protection provisions. Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial information. These provisions also provide that, except for certain limited exceptions, a financial institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Since July 1, 2010, a federal banking rule under the Electronic Fund Transfer Act prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machines (“ATM”) and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those type of transactions. If a consumer does not opt in, any ATM transaction or debit that overdraws the consumer’s account will be denied. Overdrafts on the payment of checks and regular electronic bill payments are not covered by this new rule. Before opting in, the consumer must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices. Financial institutions must provide consumers who do not opt in with the same account terms, conditions and features (including pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in.  

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Supervision  

In July 2011, M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. were notified that they will be supervised by the CFPB for certain consumer protection purposes. The CFPB will focus on:  

   —    risks to consumers and compliance with the federal consumer financial laws, when it evaluates the policies and practices of a financial institution;  

   —    the markets in which firms operate and risks to consumers posed by activities in those markets;  

   —    depository institutions that offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services;  

   —    depository institutions with a more specialized focus; and  

   —    non-depository companies that offer one or more consumer financial products or services.  

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 implemented a broad range of corporate governance, accounting and reporting measures for companies that have securities registered under the Exchange Act, including publicly-held bank holding companies such as M&T. Specifically, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the various regulations promulgated thereunder, established, among other things: (i) requirements for audit committees, including independence, expertise, and responsibilities; (ii) responsibilities regarding financial statements for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of the reporting company; (iii) the forfeiture of bonuses or other incentive-based compensation and profits from the sale of the reporting company’s securities by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer in the twelve-month period following the initial publication of any financial statements that later require restatement; (iv) the creation of an independent accounting oversight board; (v) standards for auditors and regulation of audits, including independence provisions that restrict non-audit services that accountants may provide to their audit clients; (vi) disclosure and reporting obligations for the reporting company and their directors and executive officers, including accelerated reporting of stock transactions and a prohibition on trading during pension blackout periods; (vii) a prohibition on personal loans to directors and officers, except certain loans made by insured financial institutions on nonpreferential terms and in compliance with other bank regulatory requirements; and (viii) a range of civil and criminal penalties for fraud and other violations of the securities laws.  

Community Reinvestment Act  

M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess such bank’s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the communities served by that bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. During these examinations, the regulatory agency rates such bank’s compliance with the CRA as “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” The regulatory agency’s assessment of the institution’s record is part of the regulatory agency’s consideration of applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, or to open or relocate a branch office. M&T Bank has a CRA rating of “Outstanding” and Wilmington Trust, N.A. has a CRA rating of “Satisfactory.” In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or bank holding company, the Federal Reserve Board will assess the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company in considering the application, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. The Banking Law contains provisions similar to the CRA which are applicable to New York-chartered banks. M&T Bank has a CRA rating of “Outstanding” as determined by the New York State Department of Financial Services.  

20  

Table of Contents 

USA Patriot Act  

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) imposes obligations on U.S. financial institutions, including banks and broker dealer subsidiaries, to implement and maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls which are reasonably designed to prevent, detect and report instances of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and to verify the identity of their customers. In addition, provisions of the USA Patriot Act require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and bank holding company acquisitions. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. The Registrant and its impacted subsidiaries have approved policies and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the USA Patriot Act.  

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation  

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on “U.S. persons” engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g. property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.  

Regulation of Insurers and Insurance Brokers  

The Company’s operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of M&T’s insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations.  

Governmental Policies  

The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open-market operations in U.S. Government securities and federal funds, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits. The Federal Reserve Board frequently uses these instruments of monetary policy, especially its open-market operations and the discount rate, to influence the level of interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the level of inflation or the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to predict the nature of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies, or the effect which they may have on the Company’s business and earnings.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Competition  

The Company competes in offering commercial and personal financial services with other banking institutions and with firms in a number of other industries, such as thrift institutions, credit unions, personal loan companies, sales finance companies, leasing companies, securities firms and insurance companies. Furthermore, diversified financial services companies are able to offer a combination of these services to their customers on a nationwide basis. The Company’s operations are significantly impacted by state and federal regulations applicable to the banking industry. Moreover, the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Interstate Banking Act and the Banking Law have allowed for increased competition among diversified financial services providers.  

Other Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives  

Proposals may be introduced in the United States Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Registrant in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. M&T cannot predict whether any such legislation will be enacted, and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on the financial condition or results of operations of the Registrant. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to M&T or any of its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business of the Registrant. See the section captioned “Recent Developments” included elsewhere in this item.  

Other Information  

Through a link on the Investor Relations section of M&T’s website at www.mtb.com, copies of M&T’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Copies of such reports and other information are also available at no charge to any person who requests them or at www.sec.gov. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5138).  

Corporate Governance  

M&T’s Corporate Governance Standards and the following corporate governance documents are also available on M&T’s website at the Investor Relations link: Disclosure and Regulation FD Policy; Executive Committee Charter; Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee Charter; Audit and Risk Committee Charter; Financial Reporting and Disclosure Controls and Procedures Policy; Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters. Copies of such governance documents are also available, free of charge, to any person who requests them. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5138).  

Statistical Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3  

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional information is included in the following tables.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Table 1  

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 2  

SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND OFFICES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

23  

Table of Contents 

Table 3  

CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

24  

Table of Contents 

Table 4  

COMMON SHAREHOLDER DATA  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 5  

CHANGES IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE(a)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The apportionment of changes resulting from the combined effect of both volume and rate was based on the separately determined volume and rate changes.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

M&T and its subsidiaries could be adversely impacted by various risks and uncertainties which are difficult to predict. As a financial institution, the Company has significant exposure to market risk, including interest-rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk, among others. Adverse experience with these or other risks could have a material impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as on the value of the Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T’s common stock, in particular.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Interest Rate Risk — The Company is exposed to interest rate risk in its core banking activities of lending and deposit-taking since assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. As a result, net interest income, which represents the largest revenue source for the Company, is subject to the effects of changing interest rates. The Company closely monitors the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates and attempts to limit the variability of net interest income as interest rates change. The Company makes use of both on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. Possible actions to mitigate such risk include, but are not limited to, changes in the pricing of loan and deposit products, modifying the composition of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and adding to, modifying or terminating interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes.  

Liquidity Risk — Liquidity refers to the Company’s ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future financial obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and for other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ. The Company obtains funding through deposits and various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, brokered certificates of deposit, Cayman Islands branch deposits and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York and others. Should the Company experience a substantial deterioration in its financial condition or its debt ratings, or should the availability of funding become restricted due to disruption in the financial markets, the Company’s ability to obtain funding from these or other sources could be negatively impacted. The Company attempts to quantify such credit-event risk by modeling scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact resulting from a short-term ratings downgrade over various grading levels. The Company estimates such impact by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets. To mitigate such risk, the Company maintains available lines of credit with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Federal Home Loan Bank of New York that are secured by loans and investment securities. On an ongoing basis, management closely monitors the Company’s liquidity position for compliance with internal policies and believes that available sources of liquidity are adequate to meet funding needs in the normal course of business.  

Credit Risk — Factors that influence the Company’s credit loss experience include overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, in general, and, due to the size of the Company’s real estate loan portfolio and mortgage-related investment securities portfolio, real estate valuations, in particular. Other factors that can influence the Company’s credit loss experience, in addition to general economic conditions and borrowers’ specific abilities to repay loans, include: (i) the impact of declining real estate values in the Company’s portfolio of loans to residential real estate builders and developers; (ii) the repayment performance associated with the Company’s portfolio of residential mortgage loans and residential and other mortgage loans supporting mortgage-related securities; (iii) the concentrations of commercial real estate loans in the Company’s loan portfolio; (iv) the amount of commercial and industrial loans to businesses in areas of New York State outside of the New York City metropolitan area and in central Pennsylvania that have historically experienced less economic growth and vitality than the vast majority of other regions of the country; and (v) the size of the Company’s portfolio of loans to individual consumers, which historically have experienced higher net charge-offs as a percentage of loans outstanding than many other loan types. Considerable concerns exist about economic conditions in both national and international markets; the level and volatility of energy prices; a weakened housing market; the troubled state of financial and credit markets; Federal Reserve positioning of monetary policy; high levels of unemployment; the impact of economic conditions on businesses’ operations and abilities to repay loans in light of continued stagnant population growth in the upstate New York and central Pennsylvania regions; and continued uncertainty about possible responses to state and local government budget deficits.  

Numerous factors can affect the Company’s credit loss experience. To help manage credit risk, the Company maintains a detailed credit policy and utilizes various committees that include members of senior management to approve significant extensions of credit. The Company also maintains a credit review department that regularly reviews the Company’s loan and lease portfolios to ensure compliance with established credit policy. The Company utilizes a loan grading system which is applied to all commercial and commercial real estate loans. Loan grades are utilized to differentiate risk within the portfolio and consider the expectations of default for each loan. Commercial loans and commercial real estate loans with a lower expectation of default are assigned one of ten possible “pass” loan grades and are generally ascribed lower loss factors when determining the allowance for credit losses. Loans with an elevated level of credit risk are  

26  

Table of Contents 

 classified as “criticized” and are ascribed a higher loss factor when determining the allowance for credit losses. Criticized loans may be classified as “nonaccrual” if the Company no longer expects to collect all amounts according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement or the loan is delinquent 90 days or more. Loan officers with the support of loan review personnel in different geographic locations are responsible to continuously review and reassign loan grades to pass and criticized loans based on their detailed knowledge of individual borrowers and their judgment of the impact on such borrowers resulting from changing conditions in their respective geographic regions. On a quarterly basis, the Company’s centralized loan review department reviews all larger balance criticized commercial and commercial real estate loans to determine the appropriateness of the assigned loan grade, including whether the loan should be reported as accruing or nonaccruing. For criticized nonaccrual loans, additional meetings are held with loan officers and their managers, workout specialists and senior management to discuss each of the relationships. In analyzing criticized loans, borrower-specific information is reviewed, including operating results, future cash flows, recent developments and the borrower’s outlook, and other pertinent data. The timing and extent of potential losses, considering collateral valuation and other factors, and the Company’s potential courses of action are reviewed. The collectibility of other loans is generally evaluated collectively by loan type after considering such factors as payment performance and recent loss experience and trends, which are mainly driven by current collateral values in the market place as well as the amount of loan defaults. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses that in management’s judgment appropriately reflects the losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio. In addition, the Company regularly reviews its investment securities for declines in value below amortized cost that might be characterized as “other than temporary.” Any declines in value below amortized cost that are deemed to be “other than temporary” are charged to earnings.  

Economic Risk — The U.S. economy experienced weak economic conditions during the last several years. Those conditions contributed to risk as follows:  

   —    The significant downturn in the residential real estate market that began in 2007 continued through the 2011 year-end. The impact of that downturn has resulted in depressed home prices, higher than historical levels of foreclosures and loan charge-offs, and lower market prices on investment securities backed by residential real estate. Those factors have negatively impacted M&T’s results of operations and could continue to do so.  

   —    Lower demand for the Company’s products and services and lower revenues and earnings could result from ongoing weak economic conditions. Those conditions could also result in higher loan charge-offs due to the inability of borrowers to repay loans.  

   —    Lower fee income from the Company’s brokerage and trust businesses could result from significant declines in stock market prices.  

   —    Lower earnings could result from other-than-temporary impairment charges related to the Company’s investment securities portfolio.  

   —    Higher FDIC assessments could be imposed on the Company due to bank failures that have caused the FDIC Deposit Insurance Fund to fall below minimum required levels.  

   —    There is no assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 or the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 will improve the condition of the financial markets.  

Supervision and Regulation — The Company is subject to extensive state and federal laws and regulations governing the banking industry, in particular, and public companies, in general, including laws related to corporate taxation. Many of those laws and regulations are described in Part I, Item 1 “Business.” Changes in those or other laws and regulations, or the degree of the Company’s compliance with those laws and regulations as judged by any of several regulators, including tax authorities, that oversee the Company, could have a significant effect on the Company’s operations and its financial results. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the United States and requires federal agencies to implement many new rules. It is expected that at a minimum those new rules will result in increased costs, decreased revenues and more stringent capital and liquidity requirements.  

Detailed discussions of the specific risks outlined above and other risks facing the Company are included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K in Part I, Item 1 “Business,” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Furthermore, in Part II, Item 7 under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements” is included a description of certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions identified by management that are difficult to predict and that could materially affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations, as well as the value of the Company’s financial instruments in general, and M&T common stock, in particular.  

27  

Table of Contents 

In addition, the market price of M&T common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, including changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance, volatility of stock market prices and volumes, rumors or erroneous information, changes in market valuations of similar companies and changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other regulatory agencies.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties.  

Both M&T and M&T Bank maintain their executive offices at One M&T Plaza in Buffalo, New York. This twenty-one story headquarters building, containing approximately 300,000 rentable square feet of space, is owned in fee by M&T Bank and was completed in 1967. M&T, M&T Bank and their subsidiaries occupy approximately 98% of the building and the remainder is leased to non-affiliated tenants. At December 31, 2011, the cost of this property (including improvements subsequent to the initial construction), net of accumulated depreciation, was $9.7 million.  

In September 1992, M&T Bank acquired an additional facility in Buffalo, New York with approximately 395,000 rentable square feet of space. Approximately 89% of this facility, known as M&T Center, is occupied by M&T Bank and its subsidiaries, with the remainder leased to non-affiliated tenants. At December 31, 2011, the cost of this building (including improvements subsequent to acquisition), net of accumulated depreciation, was $9.7 million.  

M&T Bank also owns and occupies two separate facilities in the Buffalo area which support certain back-office and operations functions of the Company. The total square footage of these facilities approximates 225,000 square feet and their combined cost (including improvements subsequent to acquisition), net of accumulated depreciation, was $19.9 million at December 31, 2011.  

M&T Bank also owns a facility in Syracuse, New York with approximately 160,000 rentable square feet of space. Approximately 48% of this facility is occupied by M&T Bank. At December 31, 2011, the cost of this building (including improvements subsequent to acquisition), net of accumulated depreciation, was $5.1 million.  

M&T Bank also owns facilities in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania and Millsboro, Delaware with approximately 215,000 and 325,000 rentable square feet of space, respectively. M&T Bank occupies approximately 34% and 85% of these respective facilities. At December 31, 2011, the cost of these buildings (including improvements subsequent to acquisition), net of accumulated depreciation, was $11.6 million and $7.0 million, respectively.  

The Company obtained facilities in connection with the Wilmington Trust acquisition in Wilmington, Delaware, with approximately 355,000 (known as Wilmington Trust Center) and 295,000 (known as Wilmington Trust Plaza) rentable square feet of space, respectively. The Company occupies approximately 50% of each of these respective facilities. At December 31, 2011, the cost of these buildings, net of accumulated depreciation, was $40.5 million and $14.3 million, respectively.  

No other properties owned by the Company have more than 100,000 square feet of space. The cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, of the Company’s premises and equipment is detailed in note 6 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Of the 776 domestic banking offices of the Registrant’s subsidiary banks at December 31, 2011, 313 are owned in fee and 463 are leased.  

 Item 3. Legal Proceedings.  

M&T and its subsidiaries are subject in the normal course of business to various pending and threatened legal proceedings in which claims for monetary damages are asserted. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, does not anticipate that the aggregate ultimate liability arising out of litigation pending against M&T or its subsidiaries will be material to the Company’s consolidated financial position. On an on-going basis the Company assesses its liabilities and contingencies in connection with such legal proceedings. For those matters where it is probable that the Company will incur losses and the amounts of the losses can be reasonably estimated, the Company records an expense and corresponding liability in its consolidated financial statements. To the extent the pending or threatened litigation could result in exposure in excess of that liability, the amount of such excess is not currently estimable. Although not considered probable, the  

28  

Table of Contents 

 range of reasonably possible losses for such matters in the aggregate, beyond the existing recorded liability, was between $0 and $40 million. Although the Company does not believe that the outcome of pending litigations will be material to the Company’s consolidated financial position, it cannot rule out the possibility that such outcomes will be material to the consolidated results of operations for a particular reporting period in the future.  

 Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures.  

Not applicable.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

Information concerning the Registrant’s executive officers is presented below as of February 23, 2012. The year the officer was first appointed to the indicated position with the Registrant or its subsidiaries is shown parenthetically. In the case of each entity noted below, officers’ terms run until the first meeting of the board of directors after such entity’s annual meeting, which in the case of the Registrant takes place immediately following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and until their successors are elected and qualified.  

Robert G. Wilmers, age 77, is chief executive officer (2007), chairman of the board (2000) and a director (1982) of the Registrant. From April 1998 until July 2000, he served as president and chief executive officer of the Registrant and from July 2000 until June 2005 he served as chairman, president (1988) and chief executive officer (1983) of the Registrant. He is chief executive officer (2007), chairman of the board (2005) and a director (1982) of M&T Bank, and previously served as chairman of the board of M&T Bank from March 1983 until July 2003 and as president of M&T Bank from March 1984 until June 1996.  

Michael P. Pinto, age 56, is a vice chairman (2007) and a director (2003) of the Registrant. Previously, he was an executive vice president of the Registrant (1997). He is a vice chairman and a director (2003) of M&T Bank and is the chairman and chief executive officer of M&T Bank’s Mid-Atlantic Division (2005). Prior to April 2005, Mr. Pinto was the chief financial officer of the Registrant (1997) and M&T Bank (1996), and he oversaw the Company’s Finance Division, Technology and Banking Operations Division, Corporate Services Group, Treasury Division and General Counsel’s Office. He is an executive vice president (1996) and a director (1998) of Wilmington Trust, N.A., and a director (2011) of Wilmington Trust Company. Mr. Pinto is chairman of the board and a director of Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors (2006).  

Mark J. Czarnecki, age 56, is president and a director (2007) of the Registrant and president and a director (2007) of M&T Bank. Previously, he was an executive vice president of the Registrant (1999) and M&T Bank (1997) and was responsible for the M&T Investment Group and the Company’s Retail Banking network. Mr. Czarnecki is a director (1999) of M&T Securities, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer (2007) and a director (2005) of Wilmington Trust, N.A., and a director (2011) of Wilmington Trust Company.  

Robert J. Bojdak, age 56, is an executive vice president and chief credit officer (2004) of the Registrant and M&T Bank, and is responsible for managing the Company’s enterprise-wide risk including credit, operational, compliance and investment risk. From April 2002 to April 2004, Mr. Bojdak served as senior vice president and credit deputy for M&T Bank. Previous to joining M&T Bank in 2002, Mr. Bojdak served in several senior management positions at KeyCorp., most recently as executive vice president and regional credit executive. He is an executive vice president and a director of Wilmington Trust, N.A. (2004), and a director (2011) of Wilmington Trust Company.  

Stephen J. Braunscheidel, age 55, is an executive vice president (2004) of the Registrant and M&T Bank, and is in charge of the Company’s Human Resources Division. Previously, he was a senior vice president in the M&T Investment Group, where he managed the Private Client Services and Employee Benefits departments. Mr. Braunscheidel has held a number of management positions with M&T Bank since 1978.  

Atwood Collins, III, age 65, is an executive vice president of the Registrant (1997) and M&T Bank (1996), and is the president and chief operating officer of M&T Bank’s Mid-Atlantic Division. Mr. Collins is a trustee of M&T Real Estate (1995) and a director of M&T Securities (2008).  

William J. Farrell, II, age 54, is an executive vice president of the Registrant and M&T Bank (2011), and is responsible for M&T’s Wealth and Institutional Services Division, which includes Wealth Advisory Services, Corporate Client Services, Asset Management, M&T Securities and M&T Insurance Agency. Mr. Farrell joined the Company through the Wilmington Trust acquisition. He joined Wilmington Trust in 1976 and held a number of senior management positions, most recently as executive vice president and head of the Corporate Client Services business. Mr. Farrell is an executive vice president of Wilmington Trust, N.A. (2011), and an executive vice president (2002) of Wilmington Trust Company.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Richard S. Gold, age 51, is an executive vice president of the Registrant (2007) and M&T Bank (2006) and is responsible for managing the Company’s Residential Mortgage, Consumer Lending and Business Banking Divisions. Mr. Gold served as senior vice president of M&T Bank from 2000 to 2006, most recently responsible for the Retail Banking Division, including M&T Securities. Mr. Gold is an executive vice president of Wilmington Trust, N.A. (2006).  

Brian E. Hickey, age 59, is an executive vice president of the Registrant (1997) and M&T Bank (1996). He is a member of the Directors Advisory Council (1994) of the Rochester Division of M&T Bank. Mr. Hickey is responsible for managing all of the non-retail segments in Upstate and Western New York and in the Northern and Central/Western Pennsylvania regions. Mr. Hickey is also responsible for M&T Bank’s Middle Market segment and the Auto Floor Plan lending business.  

René F. Jones, age 47, is an executive vice president (2006) and chief financial officer (2005) of the Registrant and M&T Bank. Previously, Mr. Jones was a senior vice president in charge of the Financial Performance Measurement department within M&T Bank’s Finance Division. Mr. Jones has held a number of management positions within M&T Bank’s Finance Division since 1992. Mr. Jones is an executive vice president and chief financial officer (2005) and a director (2007) of Wilmington Trust, N.A., and he is chairman of the board, president (2009) and a trustee (2005) of M&T Real Estate. He is a director of M&T Insurance Agency (2007) and M&T Securities (2005). Mr. Jones is a director (2011) of Wilmington Trust Company.  

Darren J. King, age 42, is an executive vice president of the Registrant (2010) and M&T Bank (2009), and is in charge of the Retail Banking Division. Mr. King previously served as senior vice president of M&T Bank, most recently responsible for the Business Banking Division, and has held a number of management positions within M&T Bank since 2000. Mr. King is an executive vice president of Wilmington Trust, N.A. (2009).  

Kevin J. Pearson, age 50, is an executive vice president (2002) of the Registrant and M&T Bank. He is a member of the Directors Advisory Council (2006) of the New York City/Long Island Division of M&T Bank. Mr. Pearson is responsible for managing all of the non-retail segments in the New York metropolitan area and Philadelphia markets of M&T Bank, as well as the Company’s commercial real estate business, Commercial Marketing and Treasury Management. He is an executive vice president of M&T Real Estate (2003), chairman of the board (2009) and a director (2003) of M&T Realty Capital, an executive vice president and a director of Wilmington Trust, N.A. (2008) and a director (2011) of Wilmington Trust Company. Mr. Pearson served as senior vice president of M&T Bank from 2000 to 2002.  

Michele D. Trolli, age 50, is an executive vice president and chief information officer of the Registrant and M&T Bank (2005). She is in charge of the Company’s Technology/Banking Operations Division, which encompasses Technology, Alternative Banking, Central and Lending Operations, Corporate Services and Global Sourcing. Ms. Trolli served as senior director, global systems support, with Franklin Resources, Inc., a worldwide investment management company, from May 2000 through December 2004.  

D. Scott N. Warman, age 46, is an executive vice president (2009) and treasurer (2008) of the Registrant and M&T Bank. He is responsible for managing the Company’s Treasury Division. Mr. Warman previously served as senior vice president of M&T Bank and has held a number of management positions within M&T Bank since 1995. He is an executive vice president and treasurer of Wilmington Trust, N.A. (2008), a trustee of M&T Real Estate (2009) and a director of M&T Securities (2008).  

PART II  

 Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.  

The Registrant’s common stock is traded under the symbol MTB on the New York Stock Exchange. See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for market prices of the Registrant’s common stock, approximate number of common shareholders at year-end, frequency and amounts of dividends on common stock and restrictions on the payment of dividends.  

During the fourth quarter of 2011, M&T did not issue any shares of its common stock that were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933.  

Equity Compensation Plan Information  

The following table provides information as of December 31, 2011 with respect to shares of common stock that may be issued under M&T Bank Corporation’s existing equity compensation plans. M&T Bank Corporation’s existing equity compensation plans include the M&T Bank Corporation 1983 Stock Option  

30  

Table of Contents 

 Plan, the 2001 Stock Option Plan, the 2005 Incentive Compensation Plan, which replaced the 2001 Stock Option Plan, the 2009 Equity Incentive Compensation Plan, and the M&T Bank Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan, each of which has been previously approved by shareholders, and the M&T Bank Corporation 2008 Directors’ Stock Plan and the M&T Bank Corporation Deferred Bonus Plan, each of which did not require shareholder approval.  

The table does not include information with respect to shares of common stock subject to outstanding options and rights assumed by M&T Bank Corporation in connection with mergers and acquisitions of the companies that originally granted those options and rights. Footnote (1) to the table sets forth the total number of shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of such assumed options and rights as of December 31, 2011, and their weighted-average exercise price.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) As of December 31, 2011, a total of 285,832 shares of M&T Bank Corporation common stock were issuable upon exercise of outstanding options or rights assumed by M&T Bank Corporation in connection with merger and acquisition transactions. The weighted-average exercise price of those outstanding options or rights is $145.46 per common share.  

Equity compensation plans adopted without the approval of shareholders are described below:  

2008 Directors’ Stock Plan. M&T Bank Corporation maintains a plan for non-employee members of the Board of Directors of M&T Bank Corporation and the members of its Directors Advisory Council, and the non-employee members of the Board of Directors of M&T Bank and the members of its regional Directors Advisory Councils, which allows such directors, advisory directors and members of regional Directors Advisory Councils to receive all or a portion of their directorial compensation in shares of M&T common stock.  

Deferred Bonus Plan. M&T Bank Corporation maintains a deferred bonus plan which was frozen effective January 1, 2010 and did not allow any deferrals after that date. Prior to January 1, 2010, the plan allowed eligible officers of M&T and its subsidiaries to elect to defer all or a portion of their annual incentive compensation awards and allocate such awards to several investment options, including M&T common stock. At the time of the deferral election, participants also elected the timing of distributions from the plan. Such distributions are payable in cash, with the exception of balances allocated to M&T common stock which are distributable in the form of shares of common stock.  

Performance Graph  

The following graph contains a comparison of the cumulative shareholder return on M&T common stock against the cumulative total returns of the KBW Bank Index, compiled by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., and the S&P 500 Index, compiled by Standard & Poor’s Corporation, for the five-year period beginning on December 31, 2006 and ending on December 31, 2011. The KBW Bank Index is a market capitalization index consisting of 24 leading national money-center banks and regional institutions.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Shareholder Value at Year End*  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Assumes a $100 investment on December 31, 2006 and reinvestment of all dividends.  

In accordance with and to the extent permitted by applicable law or regulation, the information set forth above under the heading “Performance Graph” shall not be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or the Exchange Act and shall not be deemed to be “soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the SEC under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

In February 2007, M&T announced that it had been authorized by its Board of Directors to purchase up to 5,000,000 shares of its common stock. M&T did not repurchase any shares pursuant to such plan during 2011.  

During the fourth quarter of 2011 M&T purchased shares of its common stock as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The total number of shares purchased during the periods indicated reflects shares deemed to have been received from employees who exercised stock options by attesting to previously acquired common shares in satisfaction of the exercise price, as is permitted under M&T’s stock option plans.  

 (2) On February 22, 2007, M&T announced a program to purchase up to 5,000,000 shares of its common stock. No shares were purchased under such program during the periods indicated.  

32  

Table of Contents 

 Item 6. Selected Financial Data.  

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

Corporate Profile and Significant Developments  

M&T Bank Corporation (“M&T”) is a bank holding company headquartered in Buffalo, New York with consolidated assets of $77.9 billion at December 31, 2011. The consolidated financial information presented herein reflects M&T and all of its subsidiaries, which are referred to collectively as “the Company.” M&T’s wholly owned bank subsidiaries are M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, National Association (“Wilmington Trust, N.A.”).  

M&T Bank, with total assets of $76.9 billion at December 31, 2011, is a New York-chartered commercial bank with 774 domestic banking offices in New York State, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia, a full-service commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada, and an office in the Cayman Islands. M&T Bank and its subsidiaries offer a broad range of financial services to a diverse base of consumers, businesses, professional clients, governmental entities and financial institutions located in their markets. Lending is largely focused on consumers residing in New York State, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Delaware and Washington, D.C., and on small and medium size businesses based in those areas, although loans are originated through lending offices in other states and in Ontario, Canada. Certain lending activities are also conducted in other states through various subsidiaries. M&T Bank’s subsidiaries include: M&T Real Estate Trust, a commercial mortgage lender; M&T Realty Capital Corporation, a multifamily commercial mortgage lender; M&T Securities, Inc., which provides brokerage, investment advisory and insurance services; Wilmington Trust Company, a non-depository trust company; Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc., which serves as investment advisor to the MTB Group of Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and other funds and institutional clients; and M&T Insurance Agency, Inc., an insurance agency.  

Wilmington Trust, N.A., with total assets of $1.1 billion at December 31, 2011, is a national bank with offices in Wilmington, Delaware and Oakfield, New York. Wilmington Trust, N.A., formerly known as M&T Bank, National Association, offers selected deposit and loan products on a nationwide basis, largely through telephone, Internet and direct mail marketing techniques. Wilmington Trust, N.A. and its subsidiaries offer various trust and wealth management services.  

On May 16, 2011, M&T acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Wilmington Trust Corporation (“Wilmington Trust”), headquartered in Wilmington, Delaware, in a stock-for-stock transaction. Wilmington Trust operated 55 banking offices in Delaware and Pennsylvania at the date of acquisition. The results of operations acquired in the Wilmington Trust transaction have been included in the Company’s financial results since May 16, 2011. Wilmington Trust shareholders received .051372 shares of M&T common stock in exchange for each share of Wilmington Trust common stock, resulting in M&T issuing a total of 4,694,486 common shares with an acquisition date fair value of $406 million.  

The Wilmington Trust transaction has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and, accordingly, assets acquired, liabilities assumed and consideration exchanged were recorded at estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Assets acquired totaled approximately $10.8 billion, including $6.4 billion of loans and leases (including approximately $3.2 billion of commercial real estate loans, $1.4 billion of commercial loans and leases, $680 million of residential real estate loans and $1.1 billion of consumer loans). Liabilities assumed aggregated $10.0 billion, including $8.9 billion of deposits. The common stock issued in the transaction added $406 million to M&T’s common shareholders’ equity. Immediately prior to the closing of the Wilmington Trust transaction, M&T redeemed the $330 million of preferred stock issued by Wilmington Trust as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program – Capital Purchase Program of the U.S. Department of Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”). In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded $112 million of core deposit and other intangible assets. The core deposit and other intangible assets are generally being amortized over periods of 5 to 7 years using an accelerated method. There was no goodwill recorded as a result of the transaction, however, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), a non-taxable gain of $65 million was realized, which represented the excess of the fair value of assets acquired less liabilities assumed over consideration exchanged. The acquisition of Wilmington Trust added to M&T’s market-leading position in the Mid-Atlantic region by giving M&T a leading deposit market share in Delaware.  

33  

Table of Contents 

On November 5, 2010, M&T Bank entered into a purchase and assumption agreement with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to assume all of the deposits, except certain brokered deposits, and acquire certain assets of K Bank, based in Randallstown, Maryland. As part of the transaction, M&T Bank entered into a loss-share arrangement with the FDIC whereby M&T Bank will be reimbursed by the FDIC for most losses it incurs on the acquired loan portfolio. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and, accordingly, assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Assets acquired in the transaction totaled approximately $556 million, including $154 million of loans and $186 million in cash, and liabilities assumed aggregated $528 million, including $491 million of deposits. There was no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded in connection with this transaction, however, in accordance with GAAP, M&T Bank recorded an after-tax gain on the transaction of $17 million ($28 million before taxes). The gain reflects the amount of financial support and indemnification against loan losses that M&T Bank obtained from the FDIC. The operations obtained in the K Bank acquisition transaction did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

On August 28, 2009, M&T Bank entered into a purchase and assumption agreement with the FDIC to assume all of the deposits and acquire certain assets of Bradford Bank (“Bradford”), based in Baltimore, Maryland. As part of the transaction, M&T Bank entered into a loss-share arrangement with the FDIC whereby M&T Bank will be reimbursed by the FDIC for most losses it incurs on the acquired loan portfolio. The transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and, accordingly, assets acquired and liabilities assumed were recorded at estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Assets acquired in the transaction totaled approximately $469 million, including $302 million of loans, and liabilities assumed aggregated $440 million, including $361 million of deposits. There was no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded in connection with this transaction, however, in accordance with GAAP, M&T Bank recorded an after-tax gain on the transaction of $18 million ($29 million before taxes). The gain reflects the amount of financial support and indemnification against loan losses that M&T Bank obtained from the FDIC. The operations obtained in the Bradford transaction did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

On May 23, 2009, M&T acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Provident Bankshares Corporation (“Provident”), a bank holding company based in Baltimore, Maryland, in a stock-for-stock transaction. Provident Bank, Provident’s banking subsidiary, was merged into M&T Bank on that date. The results of operations acquired in the Provident transaction have been included in the Company’s financial results since May 23, 2009. Provident common shareholders received .171625 shares of M&T common stock in exchange for each share of Provident common stock, resulting in M&T issuing a total of 5,838,308 common shares with an acquisition date fair value of $273 million. In addition, based on the merger agreement, outstanding and unexercised options to purchase Provident common stock were converted into options to purchase the common stock of M&T. Those options had an estimated fair value of approximately $1 million. In total, the purchase price was approximately $274 million based on the fair value on the acquisition date of M&T common stock exchanged and the options to purchase M&T common stock. Holders of Provident’s preferred stock were issued shares of new Series B and Series C Preferred Stock of M&T having substantially identical terms. That preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock associated with the Series C Preferred Stock added $162 million to M&T’s shareholders’ equity. The Series B Preferred Stock had a preference value of $27 million and paid non-cumulative dividends at a rate of 10%. In accordance with their terms, on April 1, 2011, the 26,500 shares of the Series B Preferred Stock converted into 433,144 shares of M&T common stock. The Series C Preferred Stock has a preference value of $152 million, pays cumulative dividends at a rate of 5% through November 2013 and 9% thereafter, and is held by the U.S. Treasury under the Troubled Asset Relief Program — Capital Purchase Program.  

The Provident transaction was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and, accordingly, assets acquired, liabilities assumed and consideration exchanged were recorded at estimated fair value on the acquisition date. Assets acquired totaled $6.3 billion, including $4.0 billion of loans and leases (including approximately $1.7 billion of commercial real estate loans, $1.4 billion of consumer loans, $700 million of commercial loans and leases and $300 million of residential real estate loans) and $1.0 billion of investment securities. Liabilities assumed were $5.9 billion, including $5.1 billion of deposits. The transaction added $436 million to M&T’s shareholders’ equity, including $280 million of common equity and $156 million of preferred equity. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded $332 million of goodwill and $63 million of core deposit intangible. The core deposit intangible is being amortized over seven years using an accelerated method. The acquisition of Provident expanded the  

34  

Table of Contents 

 Company’s presence in the Mid-Atlantic area, gave the Company the second largest deposit share in Maryland, and tripled the Company’s presence in Virginia.  

Net acquisition and integration-related gains and expenses (included herein as merger-related expenses) associated with the Wilmington Trust acquisition and, to a much lesser extent, with the November 2010 K Bank acquisition transaction incurred during 2011 totaled to a net gain of $13 million after tax-effect, or $.10 of diluted earnings per common share. Reflected in that amount are the $65 million non-taxable gain ($.52 of diluted earnings per common share) on the Wilmington Trust acquisition and $84 million of expenses ($52 million after tax-effect, or $.42 of diluted earnings per common share) associated with the Wilmington Trust and K Bank transactions. Net merger-related expenses incurred during 2010 totaled to a net gain of $27 million ($16 million after tax-effect, or $.14 of diluted earnings per common share). Reflected in that amount are the $28 million gain ($17 million after tax-effect, or $.14 of diluted earnings per common share) on the K Bank transaction and $771 thousand ($469 thousand after tax-effect) of expenses. Net merger-related expenses associated with the Bradford and Provident acquisition transactions incurred during 2009 totaled $60 million ($36 million after tax-effect, or $.31 of diluted earnings per common share). Reflected in that amount are the $29 million ($18 million after tax-effect, or $.15 of diluted earnings per common share) gain on the Bradford transaction and $89 million ($54 million after tax-effect, or $.46 of diluted earnings per common share) of expenses associated with the Provident and Bradford transactions. The expenses in 2011, 2010 and 2009 related to systems conversions and other costs of integrating and conforming acquired operations with and into the Company. These expenses consisted largely of professional services and other temporary help fees associated with the conversion of systems and/or integration of operations; costs related to branch and office consolidations; costs related to termination of existing contractual arrangements for various services; initial marketing and promotion expenses designed to introduce M&T Bank to customers; severance for former employees; incentive compensation costs; travel costs; and printing, supplies and other costs of completing the transaction and commencing operations in new markets and offices.  

The condition of the domestic and global economy over the last several years has significantly impacted the financial services industry as a whole, and specifically, the financial results of the Company. In particular, high unemployment levels and significantly depressed residential real estate valuations have led to increased loan charge-offs experienced by financial institutions throughout that time period. Since the official end of the recession in the United States sometime in the latter half of 2009, the recovery of the economy has been very slow. The Company has experienced loan charge-offs at higher than historical levels since 2008. In addition, many financial institutions have continued to experience unrealized losses related to investment securities backed by residential and commercial real estate due to a lack of liquidity in the financial markets and anticipated credit losses. Many financial institutions, including the Company, have taken charges for those unrealized losses that were deemed to be other than temporary. Also negatively impacting the financial results of financial institutions during 2011, including the Company, has been a series of new regulations, resulting in higher assessments by the FDIC and lower fee income.  

Pursuant to its capital plan, M&T undertook the following actions during the second quarter of 2011:  

   —    Redeemed $370 million of its Series A Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the Troubled Asset Relief Program — Capital Purchase Program of the U.S. Treasury; and  

   —    Issued $500 million of perpetual 6.875% non-cumulative preferred stock in order to supplement Tier 1 Capital.  

Several other noteworthy items are reflected in 2011’s financial results, as follows:  

   —    A $79 million other-than-temporary impairment charge was recorded during the fourth quarter related to M&T’s 20% investment in Bayview Lending Group LLC (“BLG”). While Bayview’s asset management operations continue to grow and its business of managing capital in the distressed real estate market is performing well, the small-balance commercial real estate securitization market that BLG previously operated in continues to be stagnant. Reflecting those conditions, management increased its estimate of the time frame over which M&T could reasonably anticipate recovery of the previously recorded investment amount and, as a result, concluded that the investment was other-than-temporarily impaired. That investment was written-down to its estimated fair value of $115 million. The impairment charge was recorded in “other costs of operations.”  

35  

Table of Contents 

   —    During December 2011, M&T received $55 million of cash resulting from the full settlement of a lawsuit initiated by M&T in 2008 against Deutsche Bank Securities, Inc. and several other parties. M&T sought damages arising from a 2007 investment in collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”) and alleged that the quality of the investment was not as represented. That $55 million is included in “other revenues from operations.”  

   —    The Company made a $30 million tax-deductible cash contribution in the fourth quarter to The M&T Charitable Foundation, a private charitable foundation that has supported thousands of not-for-profit organizations to improve the quality of life throughout the communities M&T serves.  

Allied Irish Banks (“AIB”) received 26,700,000 shares of M&T common stock on April 1, 2003 as a result of M&T’s acquisition of a subsidiary of AIB on that date. Those shares of common stock owned by AIB represented 22.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of M&T common stock on September 30, 2010. In an effort to raise its capital position to meet new Irish government-mandated capital requirements, AIB completed the sale of the 26,700,000 shares on November 4, 2010. As a result, the provisions of the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization between M&T and AIB related to AIB’s rights as a substantial shareholder in the corporate governance of M&T became inoperative as of that date.  

Recent Legislative Developments  

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) was signed into law on July 21, 2010. That law has and will continue to significantly change the bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies, and the system of regulatory oversight of the Company, including through the creation of the Financial Stability Oversight Council. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The Dodd-Frank Act could have a material adverse impact on the financial services industry as a whole, as well as on M&T’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  

The Dodd-Frank Act broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Beginning in the second quarter of 2011, assessments are based on average consolidated total assets less average Tier 1 capital and certain allowable deductions of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and noninterest-bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013.  

The legislation also requires that publicly traded companies give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The Dodd-Frank Act also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded.  

The Dodd-Frank Act established a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets.  

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things:  

   —    Weakens the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws;  

   —    Amends the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (“EFTA”) which has resulted in, among other things, the Federal Reserve Board issuing rules aimed at limiting debit-card interchange fees;  

   —    Applies the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies which, among other things, will, after a three-year phase-in period which begins January 1, 2013, remove trust preferred securities as a permitted component of a holding company’s Tier 1 capital;  

   —    Provides for an increase in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more and increases the minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund from 1.15% to 1.35%;  

36  

Table of Contents 

   —    Imposes comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, which would include certain provisions that would effectively prohibit insured depository institutions from conducting certain derivatives businesses in the institution itself;  

   —    Repeals the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts;  

   —    Provides mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer’s ability to repay, restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; and  

   —    Creates the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which will recommend to the Federal Reserve Board increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity.  

The environment in which banking organizations will operate after the financial crisis, including legislative and regulatory changes affecting capital, liquidity, supervision, permissible activities, corporate governance and compensation, changes in fiscal policy and steps to eliminate government support for banking organizations, may have long-term effects on the business model and profitability of banking organizations, the full extent of which cannot now be foreseen. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act still remain subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on M&T, its customers or the financial industry more generally. Provisions in the legislation that affect deposit insurance assessments, payment of interest on demand deposits and interchange fees directly impact the net income of financial institutions. Provisions in the legislation that revoke the Tier 1 capital treatment of trust preferred securities and otherwise require revisions to the capital requirements of M&T and M&T Bank could require M&T and M&T Bank to further seek other sources of capital in the future. The impact of new rules relating to overdraft fee practices and debit-card interchange fees are discussed herein under the heading “Other Income.”  

Critical Accounting Estimates  

The Company’s accounting policies conform with GAAP and are described in note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements. In applying those accounting policies, management of the Company is required to exercise judgment in determining many of the methodologies, assumptions and estimates to be utilized. Certain of the critical accounting estimates are more dependent on such judgment and in some cases may contribute to volatility in the Company’s reported financial performance should the assumptions and estimates used change over time due to changes in circumstances. Some of the more significant areas in which management of the Company applies critical assumptions and estimates include the following:  

   —    Allowance for credit losses — The allowance for credit losses represents the amount that in management’s judgment appropriately reflects credit losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio as of the balance sheet date. A provision for credit losses is recorded to adjust the level of the allowance as deemed necessary by management. In estimating losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio, assumptions and judgment are applied to measure amounts and timing of expected future cash flows, collateral values and other factors used to determine the borrowers’ abilities to repay obligations. Historical loss trends are also considered, as are economic conditions, industry trends, portfolio trends and borrower-specific financial data. For acquired loans, which are initially recorded at fair value with no carry-over of an acquired entity’s previously established allowance for credit losses, the excess cash flows expected at acquisition over their estimated fair value is recognized as interest income over the remaining lives of the loans. Subsequent decreases in the expected principal cash flows require the Company to evaluate the need for additions to the Company’s allowance for credit losses. Subsequent improvements in expected cash flows result first in the recovery of any applicable allowance for credit losses and then in the recognition of additional interest income over the remaining lives of the loans. Changes in the circumstances considered when determining management’s estimates and assumptions could result in changes in those estimates and assumptions, which may result in adjustment of the allowance or, in the case of acquired loans, increases in interest income in future periods. A detailed discussion of facts and circumstances considered by management in determining the allowance for credit losses is included herein under the heading “Provision for Credit Losses” and in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

37  

Table of Contents 

   —    Valuation methodologies — Management of the Company applies various valuation methodologies to assets and liabilities which often involve a significant degree of judgment, particularly when liquid markets do not exist for the particular items being valued. Quoted market prices are referred to when estimating fair values for certain assets, such as trading assets, most investment securities, and residential real estate loans held for sale and related commitments. However, for those items for which an observable liquid market does not exist, management utilizes significant estimates and assumptions to value such items. Examples of these items include loans, privately issued mortgage-backed securities, deposits, borrowings, goodwill, core deposit and other intangible assets, and other assets and liabilities obtained or assumed in business combinations; capitalized servicing assets; pension and other postretirement benefit obligations; value ascribed to stock-based compensation; estimated residual values of property associated with leases; and certain derivative and other financial instruments. These valuations require the use of various assumptions, including, among others, discount rates, rates of return on assets, repayment rates, cash flows, default rates, costs of servicing and liquidation values. The use of different assumptions could produce significantly different results, which could have material positive or negative effects on the Company’s results of operations. In addition to valuation, the Company must assess whether there are any declines in value below the carrying value of assets that should be considered other than temporary or otherwise require an adjustment in carrying value and recognition of a loss in the consolidated statement of income. Examples include investment securities, other investments, mortgage servicing rights, goodwill, core deposit and other intangible assets, among others. Specific assumptions and estimates utilized by management are discussed in detail herein in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in notes 1, 3, 4, 7, 8, 11, 12, 18, 19 and 20 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

   —    Commitments, contingencies and off-balance sheet arrangements — Information regarding the Company’s commitments and contingencies, including guarantees and contingent liabilities arising from litigation, and their potential effects on the Company’s results of operations is included in note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. In addition, the Company is routinely subject to examinations from various governmental taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in challenges to the tax return treatment applied by the Company to specific transactions. Management believes that the assumptions and judgment used to record tax-related assets or liabilities have been appropriate. Should tax laws change or the tax authorities determine that management’s assumptions were inappropriate, the result and adjustments required could have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations. Information regarding the Company’s income taxes is presented in note 13 of Notes to Financial Statements. The recognition or de-recognition in the Company’s consolidated financial statements of assets and liabilities held by so-called variable interest entities is subject to the interpretation and application of complex accounting pronouncements or interpretations that require management to estimate and assess the probability of financial outcomes in future periods and the degree to which the Company can influence those outcomes. Information relating to the Company’s involvement in such entities and the accounting treatment afforded each such involvement is included in note 19 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Overview  

Net income for the Company during 2011 was $859 million or $6.35 of diluted earnings per common share, up 17% and 12%, respectively, from $736 million or $5.69 of diluted earnings per common share in 2010. Basic earnings per common share increased 11% to $6.37 in 2011 from $5.72 in 2010. Net income in 2009 totaled $380 million, while diluted and basic earnings per common share were $2.89 and $2.90, respectively. The after-tax impact of net merger-related gains and expenses associated with the acquisition transactions previously described totaled to a net gain of $13 million (net expenses of $19 million pre-tax) or $.10 of basic and diluted earnings per common share in 2011, compared with a net gain of $16 million ($27 million pre-tax) or $.14 of basic and diluted earnings per common share in 2010. Net merger-related expenses of $36 million ($60 million pre-tax) or $.31 of basic and diluted earnings per common share were incurred in 2009. Expressed as a rate of return on average assets, net income in 2011 was 1.16%, compared with 1.08% in 2010 and .56% in 2009. The return on average common shareholders’ equity was 9.67% in 2011, 9.30% in 2010 and 5.07% in 2009.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Reflected in the Company’s financial results in 2011 were the operations acquired from Wilmington Trust since the May 16, 2011 acquisition date. The improved performance in 2011 as compared with 2010 was largely attributable to higher net interest income, lower credit costs and gains from the sale of investment securities available for sale.  

Taxable-equivalent net interest income increased 5% to $2.42 billion in 2011 from $2.29 billion in 2010. That increase was attributable to higher average earning assets, which rose to $64.7 billion in 2011 from $59.7 billion in 2010. Partially offsetting the higher level of average earning assets was an 11 basis point (hundredths of one percent) narrowing of the net interest margin, or taxable-equivalent net interest income divided by average earning assets, to 3.73% in 2011 from 3.84% in 2010. The higher average earning assets and the decline in the net interest margin were each largely attributable to the May 2011 acquisition of Wilmington Trust. Net interest income recorded on a taxable-equivalent basis rose 10% in 2010 from $2.08 billion in 2009, reflecting a wider net interest margin. Average earning assets during 2010 were little changed from $59.6 billion in 2009.  

The provision for credit losses was $270 million in 2011, 27% lower than $368 million in 2010. Net charge-offs also declined, to $265 million in 2011 from $346 million in 2010. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding were .47% in 2011 and .67% in 2010. While the levels of the provision and net charge-offs subsequent to 2007 have been higher than historical levels, the Company experienced some improvement in those credit quality metrics during 2011. Nevertheless, generally depressed real estate valuations and their impact on the Company’s portfolios of residential mortgage loans and loans to residential real estate builders and developers have continued to contribute significantly to the level of loan losses. The provision for credit losses in 2010 was down $236 million or 39% from $604 million in 2009. Net charge-offs in 2010 declined $168 million from $514 million in 2009. Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding were 1.01% in 2009. The provision in each year represents the result of management’s analysis of the composition of the loan and lease portfolio and other factors, including concern regarding uncertainty about economic conditions, both nationally and in many of the markets served by the Company, and the impact of such conditions and prospects on the abilities of borrowers to repay loans.  

Noninterest income rose 43% to $1.58 billion in 2011 from $1.11 billion in 2010. Gains and losses on bank investment securities totaled to a net gain of $73 million in 2011 and to a net loss of $84 million in 2010. The Company sold investment securities in 2011, predominantly mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by government sponsored entities, resulting in pre-tax gains of $150 million. Such securities were sold in the first half of the year in connection with the Wilmington Trust acquisition in order to manage the Company’s balance sheet composition and resultant capital ratios. Excluding gains and losses from bank investment securities, the aforementioned $55 million CDO litigation settlement in 2011, and merger-related gains of $65 million recorded in 2011 associated with the acquisition of Wilmington Trust and $28 million in 2010 related to the K Bank transaction, noninterest income was $1.39 billion in 2011, compared with $1.16 billion in 2010. The predominant factor in that improvement was higher trust income resulting from the Wilmington Trust transaction. Also contributing to the higher noninterest income were increased revenues from letter of credit and credit-related fees and merchant discount and credit card fees. Partially offsetting those favorable factors were declines in mortgage banking revenues and service charges on deposit accounts. Excluding gains and losses from bank investment securities, the $28 million gain recorded on the K Bank transaction in 2010 and a $29 million gain recorded on the Bradford transaction in 2009, noninterest income was $1.16 billion in each of 2010 and 2009. Declines in revenues related to residential mortgage banking, brokerage services and the Company’s trust business were offset by higher service charges on deposit accounts, credit-related fees and other revenues from operations. Other-than-temporary impairment charges on investment securities were $77 million in 2011, $86 million in 2010 and $138 million in 2009.  

Noninterest expense in 2011 totaled $2.48 billion, up 29% from $1.91 billion in 2010. During 2009, noninterest expense totaled $1.98 billion. Included in such amounts are expenses considered by M&T to be “nonoperating” in nature, consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $62 million, $58 million and $64 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and merger-related expenses of $84 million in 2011, $771,000 in 2010 and $89 million in 2009. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses aggregated $2.33 billion in 2011, $1.86 billion in 2010 and $1.83 billion in 2009. The rise in such expenses from 2010 to 2011 was largely attributable to the impact of the operations obtained in the Wilmington Trust acquisition, the $79 million other-than-temporary impairment charge related to BLG, the $30 million charitable contribution made in 2011’s fourth quarter and higher FDIC  

39  

Table of Contents 

 assessments. The increase in noninterest operating expenses from 2009 to 2010 was largely attributable to higher costs for professional services and advertising in 2010, and a $22 million reduction of the allowance for impairment of capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights in 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2010, there was no change to that impairment allowance. Partially offsetting those factors were declines in expenses in 2010 related to foreclosed properties and FDIC assessments.  

The efficiency ratio expresses the relationship of operating expenses to revenues. The Company’s efficiency ratio, or noninterest operating expenses (as previously defined) divided by the sum of taxable-equivalent net interest income and noninterest income (exclusive of gains and losses from bank investment securities and gains on merger transactions), was 60.4% in 2011, compared with 53.7% in 2010 and 56.5% in 2009. Excluding the $79 million impairment charge related to M&T’s investment in BLG, the $55 million litigation settlement and the $30 million charitable contribution in the fourth quarter of 2011, the efficiency ratio for 2011 would have been 58.4%. The calculations of the efficiency ratio are presented in table 2.  

Table 1  

EARNINGS SUMMARY  

Dollars in millions  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Changes were calculated from unrounded amounts.  

 (b) Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The taxable-equivalent adjustment represents additional income taxes that would be due if all interest income were subject to income taxes. This adjustment, which is related to interest received on qualified municipal securities, industrial revenue financings and preferred equity securities, is based on a composite income tax rate of approximately 39%.  

 (c) Includes other-than-temporary impairment losses, if any.  

Supplemental Reporting of Non-GAAP Results of Operations  

As a result of business combinations and other acquisitions, the Company had intangible assets consisting of goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets totaling $3.7 billion at each of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Included in such intangible assets was goodwill of $3.5 billion at each of those dates. Amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets, after tax effect, totaled $38 million, $35 million and $39 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

M&T consistently provides supplemental reporting of its results on a “net operating” or “tangible” basis, from which M&T excludes the after-tax effect of amortization of core deposit and other intangible  

40  

Table of Contents 

 assets (and the related goodwill, core deposit intangible and other intangible asset balances, net of applicable deferred tax amounts) and gains and expenses associated with merging acquired operations into the Company, since such items are considered by management to be “nonoperating” in nature. Although “net operating income” as defined by M&T is not a GAAP measure, M&T’s management believes that this information helps investors understand the effect of acquisition activity in reported results.  

Net operating income totaled $884 million in 2011, up 17% from $755 million in 2010. Diluted net operating earnings per common share in 2011 rose 12% to $6.55 from $5.84 in 2010. Net operating income and diluted net operating earnings per common share were $455 million and $3.54, respectively, during 2009.  

Expressed as a rate of return on average tangible assets, net operating income was 1.26% in 2011, compared with 1.17% in 2010 and .71% in 2009. Net operating return on average tangible common equity was 17.96% in 2011, compared with 18.95% and 13.42% in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Reconciliations of GAAP amounts with corresponding non-GAAP amounts are presented in table 2.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Table 2  

RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) After any related tax effect.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Net Interest Income/Lending and Funding Activities  

Net interest income expressed on a taxable-equivalent basis totaled $2.42 billion in 2011, 5% higher than $2.29 billion in 2010. That improvement resulted from growth in average earning assets partially offset by a narrowing of the Company’s net interest margin. Average earning assets aggregated $64.7 billion in 2011, up 8% from $59.7 billion in 2010 predominantly the result of earning assets obtained in the acquisition of Wilmington Trust, which at the May 16, 2011 acquisition date totaled approximately $9.6 billion. The net interest margin narrowed 11 basis points from 3.84% in 2010 to 3.73% in 2011, partially attributable to the Wilmington Trust acquisition. Also contributing to that narrowing were significantly higher cash balances on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.  

Average loans and leases rose 10% to $56.2 billion in 2011 from $51.3 billion in 2010, due predominantly to loans obtained in the acquisition of Wilmington Trust. Loans associated with Wilmington Trust totaled $6.4 billion on the acquisition date, consisting of approximately $1.4 billion of commercial loans and leases, $3.2 billion of commercial real estate loans, $680 million of residential real estate loans and $1.1 billion of consumer loans. Including the impact of the acquired loan balances, commercial loans and leases averaged $14.7 billion in 2011, up $1.6 billion or 12% from $13.1 billion in 2010. Average commercial real estate loans increased 11% to $22.9 billion in 2011 from $20.7 billion in 2010. Residential real estate loans averaged $6.8 billion in 2011, up 18% from $5.7 billion in 2010. In addition to the impact of Wilmington Trust, higher amounts of loans originated to be held in portfolio contributed to that increase. Average consumer loans in 2011 were $11.9 billion, up 1% from $11.7 billion in 2010. Largely offsetting the impact of consumer loans obtained in the Wilmington Trust transaction were declines in average automobile and home equity loans.  

Reflecting a 35 basis point widening of the net interest margin, taxable-equivalent net interest income rose 10% to $2.29 billion in 2010 from $2.08 billion in 2009. The Company’s net interest margin increased to 3.84% in 2010 from 3.49% in 2009, predominantly the result of lower interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings. Average earning assets were $59.7 billion in 2010, up slightly from $59.6 billion in 2009. As compared with 2009, a slight increase in average outstanding balances of loans and leases was offset by a decline in average outstanding balances of investment securities.  

Average loans and leases of $51.3 billion in 2010 were up 1% from $51.0 billion in 2009. The full-year impact of the loans obtained in the Provident and Bradford acquisition transactions was offset by sluggish borrower demand for commercial loans. Average commercial loans and leases declined 6% to $13.1 billion in 2010 from $13.9 billion in 2009. Commercial real estate loans averaged $20.7 billion in 2010, up 3% from $20.1 billion in 2009. Average residential real estate loans increased 8% to $5.7 billion in 2010 from $5.3 billion in 2009, largely due to the impact of adopting the new accounting rules on January 1, 2010 that required the Company to include in its consolidated financial statements one-to-four family residential mortgage loans that were included in non-recourse securitization transactions using qualified special-purpose trusts. The effect of that consolidation as of January 1, 2010 was to increase residential real estate loans by $424 million, decrease the amortized cost of available-for-sale investment securities by $360 million (fair value of $355 million as of January 1, 2010), and increase borrowings by $65 million. The Company’s consumer loan portfolio averaged $11.7 billion in each of 2010 and 2009.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Table 3  

AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT RATES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes nonaccrual loans.  

 (b) Includes available-for-sale investment securities at amortized cost.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Table 4 summarizes average loans and leases outstanding in 2011 and percentage changes in the major components of the portfolio over the past two years.  

Table 4  

AVERAGE LOANS AND LEASES  

(Net of unearned discount)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Commercial loans and leases, excluding loans secured by real estate, totaled $15.7 billion at December 31, 2011, representing 26% of total loans and leases. Table 5 presents information on commercial loans and leases as of December 31, 2011 relating to geographic area, size, borrower industry and whether the loans are secured by collateral or unsecured. Of the $15.7 billion of commercial loans and leases outstanding at the end of 2011, approximately $13.5 billion, or 86%, were secured, while 42%, 26% and 21% were granted to businesses in New York State, Pennsylvania and the Mid-Atlantic area (which includes Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia), respectively. The Company provides financing for leases to commercial customers, primarily for equipment. Commercial leases included in total commercial loans and leases at December 31, 2011 aggregated $1.3 billion, of which 48% were secured by collateral located in New York State, 15% were secured by collateral in the Mid-Atlantic area and another 11% were secured by collateral in Pennsylvania.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Table 5  

COMMERCIAL LOANS AND LEASES, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT  

(Excludes Loans Secured by Real Estate)  

December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

46  

Table of Contents 

International loans included in commercial loans and leases totaled $122 million and $105 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Included in such loans were $108 million and $61 million, respectively, of loans at M&T Bank’s commercial branch in Ontario, Canada, which opened in the second quarter of 2010. The Company participates in the insurance and guarantee programs of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. These programs provide U.S. government repayment coverage of 90% to 100% on loans supporting foreign borrowers’ purchases of U.S. goods and services and coverage of 90% on loans to U.S. exporters of goods and services to foreign buyers. The loans generally range up to $10 million. The outstanding balances of loans under those programs at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $9 million and $32 million, respectively.  

Loans secured by real estate, including outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit which the Company classifies as consumer loans, represented approximately 65% of the loan and lease portfolio during each of 2011 and 2010, compared with 62% in 2009. At December 31, 2011, the Company held approximately $24.4 billion of commercial real estate loans, $7.9 billion of consumer real estate loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties (including $210 million of loans held for sale) and $6.7 billion of outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit, compared with $21.2 billion, $5.9 billion and $6.6 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Included in total loans and leases were amounts due from builders and developers of residential real estate aggregating $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, of which $1.5 billion and $1.35 billion, respectively, were classified as commercial real estate loans.  

Commercial real estate loans originated by the Company include fixed-rate instruments with monthly payments and a balloon payment of the remaining unpaid principal at maturity, in many cases five years after origination. In many cases, for borrowers in good standing the terms of such loans may be extended by the customer for an additional five years at the then current market rate of interest. The Company also originates fixed-rate commercial real estate loans with maturities of greater than five years, generally having original maturity terms of approximately seven to ten years, and adjustable-rate commercial real estate loans. Excluding construction and development loans made to investors, adjustable-rate commercial real estate loans represented approximately 58% of the commercial real estate loan portfolio at the 2011 year-end. Table 6 presents commercial real estate loans by geographic area, type of collateral and size of the loans outstanding at December 31, 2011. New York City metropolitan area commercial real estate loans totaled $7.7 billion at December 31, 2011. The $6.3 billion of investor-owned commercial real estate loans in the New York City metropolitan area were largely secured by multifamily residential properties, retail space, and office space. The Company’s experience has been that office, retail and service-related properties tend to demonstrate more volatile fluctuations in value through economic cycles and changing economic conditions than do multifamily residential properties. Approximately 49% of the aggregate dollar amount of New York City-area loans were for loans with outstanding balances of $10 million or less, while loans of more than $50 million made up approximately 9% of the total.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Table 6  

COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT  

December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes $354 million of construction loans.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located in other parts of New York State, Pennsylvania and the Mid-Atlantic area tend to have a greater diversity of collateral types and include a significant amount of lending to customers who use the mortgaged property in their trade or business (owner-occupied). Approximately 83% of the aggregate dollar amount of commercial real estate loans in New York State secured by properties located outside of the metropolitan New York City area were for loans with outstanding balances of $10 million or less. Of the outstanding balances of commercial real estate loans in Pennsylvania and the Mid-Atlantic area, approximately 75% and 74%, respectively, were for loans with outstanding balances of $10 million or less.  

Commercial real estate loans secured by properties located outside of Pennsylvania, the Mid-Atlantic area, New York State and areas of states neighboring New York considered to be part of the New York City metropolitan area, comprised 10% of total commercial real estate loans as of December 31, 2011.  

Commercial real estate construction and development loans made to investors presented in table 6 totaled $3.8 billion at December 31, 2011, or 6% of total loans and leases. Approximately 95% of those construction loans had adjustable interest rates. Included in such loans at the 2011 year-end were $1.5 billion of loans to developers of residential real estate properties. Information about the credit performance of the Company’s loans to builders and developers of residential real estate properties is included herein under the heading “Provision For Credit Losses.” The remainder of the commercial real estate construction loan portfolio was comprised of loans made for various purposes, including the construction of office buildings, multifamily residential housing, retail space and other commercial development.  

M&T Realty Capital Corporation, a commercial real estate lending subsidiary of M&T Bank, participates in the Fannie Mae Delegated Underwriting and Servicing (“DUS”) program, pursuant to which commercial real estate loans are originated in accordance with terms and conditions specified by Fannie Mae and sold. Under this program, loans are sold with partial credit recourse to M&T Realty Capital Corporation. The amount of recourse is generally limited to one-third of any credit loss incurred by the purchaser on an individual loan, although in some cases the recourse amount is less than one-third of the outstanding principal balance. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately $1.8 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, of commercial real estate loan balances serviced for others had been sold with recourse. There have been no material losses incurred as a result of those recourse arrangements. Commercial real estate loans held for sale at December 31, 2011 and 2010 aggregated $161 million and $204 million, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, commercial real estate loans serviced for other investors by the Company were $9.0 billion and $8.1 billion, respectively. Those serviced loans are not included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.  

Real estate loans secured by one-to-four family residential properties were $7.9 billion at December 31, 2011, including approximately 38% secured by properties located in New York State, 14% secured by properties located in Pennsylvania and 25% secured by properties located in the Mid-Atlantic area. At December 31, 2011, $210 million of residential real estate loans were held for sale, compared with $341 million at December 31, 2010. The Company’s portfolio of Alt-A loans held for investment at December 31, 2011 totaled $542 million, compared with $648 million at December 31, 2010. Alt-A loans represent residential real estate loans that at origination typically included some form of limited borrower documentation requirements as compared with more traditional residential real estate loans. Loans in the Company’s Alt-A portfolio were originated by the Company prior to 2008. Loans to individuals to finance the construction of one-to-four family residential properties totaled $43 million at December 31, 2011, or approximately .1% of total loans and leases, compared with $71 million or .1% at December 31, 2010. Information about the credit performance of the Company’s Alt-A mortgage loans and other residential mortgage loans is included herein under the heading “Provision For Credit Losses.”  

Consumer loans comprised approximately 21% and 23% of the average loan portfolio during 2011 and 2010, respectively. The two largest components of the consumer loan portfolio are outstanding balances of home equity lines of credit and automobile loans. Average balances of home equity lines of credit outstanding represented approximately 11% of average loans outstanding in each of 2011 and 2010. Automobile loans represented approximately 5% of the Company’s average loan portfolio during each of 2011 and 2010. No other consumer loan product represented more than 4% of average loans outstanding in 2011. Approximately 41% of home equity lines of credit outstanding at December 31, 2011 were secured by properties in New York State, and 20% and 37% were secured by properties in Pennsylvania and the Mid-Atlantic area, respectively. Average outstanding balances on home equity lines of credit were approximately $5.9 billion and $5.8 billion in 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011, 35%, 26% and 19% of the automobile loan portfolio were to customers residing in New York State, Pennsylvania and  

49  

Table of Contents 

 the Mid-Atlantic area, respectively. Although automobile loans have generally been originated through dealers, all applications submitted through dealers are subject to the Company’s normal underwriting and loan approval procedures. Outstanding automobile loan balances were $2.7 billion at each of December 31, 2011 and 2010.  

Table 7 presents the composition of the Company’s loan and lease portfolio at the end of 2011, including outstanding balances to businesses and consumers in New York State, Pennsylvania, the Mid-Atlantic area and other states. Approximately 43% of total loans and leases at December 31, 2011 were to New York State customers, while 19% and 26% were to Pennsylvania and Mid-Atlantic area customers, respectively.  

Table 7  

LOANS AND LEASES, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT  

December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes loans secured by properties located in neighboring states generally considered to be within commuting distance of New York City.  

Balances of investment securities averaged $7.1 billion in 2011, compared with $8.0 billion and $8.4 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The 12% decline in such balances from 2010 to 2011 reflects the impact of sales of investment securities in 2011, as well as maturities and paydowns of mortgage-backed securities. During 2011 the Company realized gains of $150 million from the sale of investment securities available for sale, predominantly residential mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the Federal National Mortgage Association (“Fannie Mae”) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“Freddie Mac”), collateralized debt obligations and trust preferred securities, having an amortized cost of $1.7 billion. Partially offseting those factors were purchases of residential mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Government National Mortgage Association (“Ginnie Mae”) aggregating approximately $3.3 billion. The Wilmington Trust acquisition added approximately $510 million to the investment securities portfolio on the May 16, 2011 acquisition date. The decrease in average investment securities from 2009 to 2010 largely reflects maturities and paydowns of mortgage-backed securities, maturities of federal agency notes and the impact of adopting the new accounting rules on January 1, 2010 as already noted, partially offset by purchases of mortgage-backed securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac during the first half of 2010 aggregating approximately $1.3 billion.  

50  

Table of Contents 

The investment securities portfolio is largely comprised of residential mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMOs”), debt securities issued by municipalities, trust preferred securities issued by certain financial institutions, and shorter-term U.S. Treasury and federal agency notes. When purchasing investment securities, the Company considers its overall interest-rate risk profile as well as the adequacy of expected returns relative to risks assumed, including prepayments. In managing the investment securities portfolio, the Company occasionally sells investment securities as a result of changes in interest rates and spreads, actual or anticipated prepayments, credit risk associated with a particular security, or as a result of restructuring its investment securities portfolio in connection with a business combination.  

The Company regularly reviews its investment securities for declines in value below amortized cost that might be characterized as “other than temporary.” As noted above, other-than-temporary impairment charges of $77 million (pre-tax) were recognized during 2011 related to certain privately issued CMOs backed by residential and commercial real estate loans. Other-than-temporary impairment charges of $86 million (pre-tax) were recognized during 2010. Approximately $68 million of those charges related to privately issued CMOs backed by residential and commercial real estate loans, $6 million related to CDOs backed by trust preferred securities issued by financial institutions and $12 million related to American Depositary Shares (“ADSs”) of AIB. The AIB ADSs were obtained in the 2003 acquisition of a subsidiary of AIB and were held to satisfy options to purchase such shares granted by that subsidiary to certain employees. Factors contributing to the impairment charge included mounting credit and other losses incurred by AIB, the issuance of AIB common stock in lieu of dividend payments on certain preferred stock issuances held by the Irish government resulting in significant dilution of AIB common shareholders, and public announcements by Irish government officials suggesting that increased government support, which could further dilute AIB common shareholders, may be necessary. Other-than-temporary impairment charges of $138 million (pre-tax) were recognized during 2009 related to certain privately issued CMOs and CDOs held in the Company’s available-for-sale investment securities portfolio. Specifically, $130 million of such impairment charges related to privately issued CMOs and CDOs backed by residential real estate loans and $8 million related to CDOs backed by trust preferred securities of financial institutions. Poor economic conditions, high unemployment and depressed real estate values are significant factors contributing to the recognition of the other-than-temporary impairment charges related to CMOs and CDOs. Based on management’s assessment of future cash flows associated with individual investment securities, as of December 31, 2011, the Company concluded that the remaining declines associated with the rest of the investment securities portfolio were temporary in nature. A further discussion of fair values of investment securities is included herein under the heading “Capital.” Additional information about the investment securities portfolio is included in notes 3 and 20 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Other earning assets include interest-earning deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and other banks, trading account assets, federal funds sold and agreements to resell securities. Those other earning assets in the aggregate averaged $1.5 billion in 2011, $417 million in 2010 and $189 million in 2009. Interest-bearing deposits at banks averaged $1.2 billion in 2011, up from $102 million and $50 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The significantly higher balances in 2011 were due to increased deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York resulting largely from the May 16, 2011 Wilmington Trust acquisition. Also reflected in other earning assets were purchases of investment securities under agreements to resell, which averaged $168 million, $214 million and $41 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The higher level of resell agreements in 2011 and 2010 as compared with 2009 was due, in part, to the need to fulfill collateral requirements associated with certain municipal deposits. Agreements to resell securities, of which there were none outstanding at the 2011, 2010 and 2009 year-ends, are accounted for similar to collateralized loans, with changes in market value of the collateral monitored by the Company to ensure sufficient coverage. The amounts of investment securities and other earning assets held by the Company are influenced by such factors as demand for loans, which generally yield more than investment securities and other earning assets, ongoing repayments, the levels of deposits, and management of balance sheet size and resulting capital ratios.  

The most significant source of funding for the Company is core deposits. During 2010 and prior years, the Company considered noninterest-bearing deposits, interest-bearing transaction accounts, savings deposits and domestic time deposits under $100,000 as core deposits. A provision of the Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased the maximum amount of FDIC deposit insurance for financial institutions to $250,000 per depositor. That maximum was $100,000 per depositor until 2009, when it was raised to $250,000 temporarily through 2013. As a result of the permanently increased deposit insurance coverage, effective December 31, 2010 the Company considers time deposits of $250,000 or less as core deposits.  

51  

Table of Contents 

 The Company’s branch network is its principal source of core deposits, which generally carry lower interest rates than wholesale funds of comparable maturities. Certificates of deposit of $250,000 or less generated on a nationwide basis by Wilmington Trust, N.A. were also included in core deposits. Average core deposits totaled $52.0 billion in 2011, up from $43.6 billion in 2010 and $39.1 billion in 2009. The change in the Company’s definition of core deposits to include time deposits from $100,000 to $250,000 increased average core deposits by approximately $964 million in 2011. The Wilmington Trust acquisition added approximately $6.6 billion of core deposits on May 16, 2011. The K Bank acquisition transaction added $491 million of core deposits on November 5, 2010, while acquisition transactions in 2009 added $3.8 billion of core deposits on the respective acquisition dates. Average core deposits of Wilmington Trust, N.A. were $630 million in 2011, $217 million in 2010 and $337 million in 2009. Excluding the impact of the December 31, 2010 change in the Company’s definition of core deposits and deposits obtained in acquisition transactions, the growth in core deposits from 2009 to 2010 and from 2010 to 2011 was due, in part, to the lack of attractive alternative investments available to the Company’s customers resulting from lower interest rates and from the economic environment in the U.S. The low interest rate environment has resulted in a shift in customer savings trends, as average time deposits have continued to decline, while average noninterest-bearing deposits and savings deposits have increased. Funding provided by core deposits represented 80% of average earning assets in 2011, compared with 73% and 66% in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Table 8 summarizes average core deposits in 2011 and percentage changes in the components of such deposits over the past two years. Core deposits aggregated $56.4 billion and $45.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Table 8  

AVERAGE CORE DEPOSITS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Average time deposits considered core deposits in 2011 represented time deposits of $250,000 or less. In 2010 and 2009, average time deposits considered core deposits were those with balances less than $100,000.  

Additional funding sources for the Company included domestic time deposits over $250,000, deposits associated with the Company’s Cayman Islands branch office, and brokered deposits. Domestic time deposits over $250,000, excluding brokered certificates of deposit, averaged $491 million in 2011. Similar time deposits over $100,000 averaged $1.7 billion and $2.6 billion in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cayman Islands branch deposits averaged $779 million in 2011, $1.0 billion in 2010 and $1.7 billion in 2009. Average brokered time deposits totaled $1.1 billion in 2011, compared with $642 million in 2010 and $822 million in 2009, and at December 31, 2011 and 2010 totaled $1.0 billion and $485 million, respectively. Brokered time deposits obtained in the acquisition of Wilmington Trust totaled $1.4 billion as of May 16, 2011. The Company also had brokered NOW and brokered money-market deposit accounts, which in the aggregate averaged $1.3 billion, $1.2 billion and $757 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The levels of brokered NOW and brokered money-market deposit accounts reflect the demand for such deposits, largely resulting from continued uncertain economic markets and the desire of brokerage firms to earn reasonable yields while ensuring that customer deposits are fully insured. Cayman Islands branch deposits and brokered deposits have been used by the Company as alternatives to short-term borrowings. Additional amounts of Cayman Islands branch deposits or brokered deposits may be added in the future depending on market conditions, including demand by customers and other investors for those deposits, and the cost of funds available from alternative sources at the time.  

52  

Table of Contents 

The Company also uses borrowings from banks, securities dealers, various Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal Reserve Bank and others as sources of funding. Short-term borrowings averaged $827 million in 2011, $1.9 billion in 2010 and $2.9 billion in 2009. Included in short-term borrowings were unsecured federal funds borrowings, which generally mature on the next business day, that averaged $593 million, $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Overnight federal funds borrowings represented the largest component of average short-term borrowings and were obtained from a wide variety of banks and other financial institutions. Overnight federal funds borrowings totaled $590 million at December 31, 2011 and $826 million at December 31, 2010. Average short-term borrowings during 2011, 2010 and 2009 included $30 million, $31 million and $688 million, respectively, of borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of New York, the FHLB of Atlanta and the FHLB of Pittsburgh. Also included in average short-term borrowings in 2009 were secured borrowings with the Federal Reserve through their Term Auction Facility (“TAF”). Borrowings under the TAF averaged $268 million during 2009. There were no outstanding borrowings under the TAF at December 31, 2009 or later. The need for short-term borrowings from the FHLBs and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has diminished with the continued growth in the Company’s core deposits.  

Long-term borrowings averaged $7.0 billion in 2011, $9.2 billion in 2010 and $11.1 billion in 2009. Included in average long-term borrowings were amounts borrowed from FHLBs of $1.9 billion in 2011, $4.2 billion in 2010 and $6.1 billion in 2009, and subordinated capital notes of $2.0 billion in 2011, $1.8 billion in 2010 and $1.9 billion in 2009. Subordinated capital notes assumed in connection with the Wilmington Trust acquisition totaled $450 million at May 16, 2011. The Company has utilized interest rate swap agreements to modify the repricing characteristics of certain components of long-term debt. As of December 31, 2011, swap agreements were used to hedge approximately $900 million of fixed rate subordinated notes. Further information on interest rate swap agreements is provided in note 18 of Notes to Financial Statements. Junior subordinated debentures associated with trust preferred securities that were included in average long-term borrowings were $1.2 billion in each of 2011 and 2010 and $1.1 billion in 2009. Additional information regarding junior subordinated debentures, as well as information regarding contractual maturities of long-term borrowings, is provided in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. Also included in long-term borrowings were agreements to repurchase securities, which averaged $1.5 billion during 2011 and $1.6 billion during 2010 and 2009. The agreements, which were entered into due to favorable rates available, have various repurchase dates through 2017, however, the contractual maturities of the underlying securities extend beyond such repurchase dates.  

Changes in the composition of the Company’s earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as discussed herein, as well as changes in interest rates and spreads, can impact net interest income. Net interest spread, or the difference between the taxable-equivalent yield on earning assets and the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities, was 3.48% in 2011, compared with 3.59% in 2010 and 3.21% in 2009. The yield on the Company’s earning assets decreased 26 basis points to 4.35% in 2011 from 4.61% in 2010, while the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities declined 15 basis points to .87% in 2011 from 1.02% in 2010. The resulting 11 basis point narrowing in spread in 2011 as compared with 2010 was partially attributable to the acquisition of Wilmington Trust, which included significantly higher earning balances on lower-yielding deposits with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The yield on earning assets during 2010 was unchanged from 2009, while the rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities decreased 38 basis points from 1.40% in 2009. The improvement in spread in 2010 as compared with 2009 was due predominantly to lower average rates paid on deposits. Those lower rates reflected the impact of the sluggish economy and the Federal Reserve’s monetary policies on both short-term and long-term interest rates. In addition, the Federal Open Market Committee noted in January 2012 that it anticipates that economic conditions, including low rates of resource utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium run, are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at least through late-2014. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Federal Reserve’s target range for the overnight federal funds rate was 0% to .25%.  

Net interest-free funds consist largely of noninterest-bearing demand deposits and shareholders’ equity, partially offset by bank owned life insurance and non-earning assets, including goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets. Net interest-free funds averaged $18.5 billion in 2011, compared with $14.4 billion in 2010 and $11.7 billion in 2009. The significant increases in average net interest-free funds in 2011 and 2010 were largely the result of higher balances of noninterest-bearing deposits, which averaged $17.3 billion in 2011, $13.7 billion in 2010 and $11.1 billion in 2009. In connection with the Wilmington Trust acquisition, the Company added noninterest-bearing deposits totaling $2.0 billion at the acquisition date. In connection with the Provident and Bradford transactions, the Company added noninterest-bearing  

53  

Table of Contents 

 deposits totaling $946 million at the respective 2009 acquisition dates. Goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets averaged $3.7 billion in each of 2011 and 2010, and $3.6 billion in 2009. Core deposit and other intangible assets added from the Wilmington Trust acquisition were $112 million on May 16, 2011. The cash surrender value of bank owned life insurance averaged $1.5 billion in each of 2011 and 2010, and $1.4 billion in 2009. Increases in the cash surrender value of bank owned life insurance are not included in interest income, but rather are recorded in “other revenues from operations.” The contribution of net interest-free funds to net interest margin was .25% in each of 2011 and 2010, and .28% in 2009. The decline in the contribution to net interest margin ascribed to net interest-free funds in 2010 as compared with 2009 resulted largely from the impact of lower interest rates on interest-bearing liabilities used to value such contribution.  

Reflecting the changes to the net interest spread and the contribution of net interest-free funds as described herein, the Company’s net interest margin was 3.73% in 2011, compared with 3.84% in 2010 and 3.49% in 2009. Future changes in market interest rates or spreads, as well as changes in the composition of the Company’s portfolios of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities that result in reductions in spreads, could adversely impact the Company’s net interest income and net interest margin.  

Management assesses the potential impact of future changes in interest rates and spreads by projecting net interest income under several interest rate scenarios. In managing interest rate risk, the Company has utilized interest rate swap agreements to modify the repricing characteristics of certain portions of its portfolios of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Periodic settlement amounts arising from these agreements are generally reflected in either the yields earned on assets or the rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The notional amount of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes was $900 million at each of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Under the terms of those swap agreements, the Company received payments based on the outstanding notional amount of the agreements at fixed rates and made payments at variable rates. Those swap agreements were designated as fair value hedges of certain fixed rate long-term borrowings. There were no interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges at those respective dates.  

In a fair value hedge, the fair value of the derivative (the interest rate swap agreement) and changes in the fair value of the hedged item are recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet with the corresponding gain or loss recognized in current earnings. The difference between changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap agreements and the hedged items represents hedge ineffectiveness and is recorded in “other revenues from operations” in the Company’s consolidated statement of income. In a cash flow hedge, unlike in a fair value hedge, the effective portion of the derivative’s gain or loss is initially reported as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. The ineffective portion of the gain or loss is reported in “other revenues from operations” immediately. The amounts of hedge ineffectiveness recognized in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were not material to the Company’s results of operations. The estimated aggregate fair value of interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges represented gains of approximately $147 million at December 31, 2011 and $97 million at December 31, 2010. The fair values of such swap agreements were substantially offset by changes in the fair values of the hedged items. The changes in the fair values of the interest rate swap agreements and the hedged items primarily result from the effects of changing interest rates and spreads. The Company’s credit exposure as of December 31, 2011 with respect to the estimated fair value of interest rate swap agreements used for managing interest rate risk has been substantially mitigated through master netting arrangements with trading account interest rate contracts with the same counterparty as well as counterparty postings of $69 million of collateral with the Company. Additional information about swap agreements and the items being hedged is included in note 18 of Notes to Financial Statements. The average notional amounts of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes, the related effect on net interest income and margin, and the weighted-average interest rates paid or received on those swap agreements are presented in table 9.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Table 9  

INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Computed as a percentage of average earning assets or interest-bearing liabilities.  

 (b) Weighted-average rate paid or received on interest rate swap agreements in effect during year.  

Provision for Credit Losses  

The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses that in management’s judgment appropriately reflects losses inherent in the loan and lease portfolio. A provision for credit losses is recorded to adjust the level of the allowance as deemed necessary by management. The provision for credit losses was $270 million in 2011, compared with $368 million in 2010 and $604 million in 2009. Net loan charge-offs aggregated $265 million in 2011, $346 million in 2010 and $514 million in 2009. Net loan charge-offs as a percentage of average loans outstanding were .47% in 2011, compared with .67% in 2010 and 1.01% in 2009. While the Company has experienced improvement in its credit quality metrics the past two years, the levels of the provision subsequent to 2007 have been higher than historical levels, reflecting a pronounced downturn in the U.S. economy and significant deterioration in the residential real estate market that began in early-2007. Generally declining real estate valuations and higher than normal levels of delinquencies and charge-offs have significantly affected the quality of the Company’s residential real estate-related loan portfolios. Specifically, the Company’s Alt-A residential real estate loan portfolio and its residential real estate builder and developer loan portfolio experienced the majority of the credit problems related to the turmoil in the residential real estate market place in recent years. The Company also experienced higher levels of commercial and consumer loan charge-offs over the past three years due to, among other things, higher unemployment levels and the recessionary economy. A summary of the Company’s loan charge-offs, provision and allowance for credit losses is presented in table 10 and in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Table 10  

LOAN CHARGE-OFFS, PROVISION AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Loans acquired in connection with acquisition transactions subsequent to 2008 were recorded at fair value with no carry-over of any previously recorded allowance for credit losses. Determining the fair value of the acquired loans required estimating cash flows expected to be collected on the loans and discounting those cash flows at then-current interest rates. The excess of cash flows expected at acquisition over the estimated fair value is being recognized as interest income over the lives of the loans. The difference between contractually required payments at acquisition and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition reflects estimated future credit losses and other contractually required payments that the Company does not expect to collect. The Company regularly evaluates the reasonableness of its cash flow projections. Any decreases to the expected cash flows require the Company to evaluate the need for an additional allowance for credit losses and could lead to charge-offs of acquired loan balances. Any significant increases in expected cash flows result in additional interest income to be recognized over the then-remaining lives of the loans. The carrying amount of loans obtained in acquisitions subsequent to 2008 was $8.2 billion and $3.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Nonaccrual loans totaled $1.10 billion or 1.83% of outstanding loans and leases at December 31, 2011, compared with $1.14 billion or 2.19% at December 31, 2010 and $1.26 billion or 2.42% at December 31, 2009. Additions to nonaccrual loans during 2011 were more than offset by the impact on such loans from payments received and charge-offs. The largest relationship that was added to nonaccrual loans in 2011 was a $20 million  

56  

Table of Contents 

 loan to a builder and developer of residential real estate properties in the Mid-Atlantic area. The decline in nonaccrual loans at the end of 2010 as compared with December 31, 2009 was largely attributable to the impact of charge-offs, individually significant payments made in 2010 by a borrower that operates retirement communities and by a borrower that is a consumer finance and credit insurance company, and the transfer to real estate and other foreclosed assets of $98 million of collateral related to a commercial real estate loan that was placed in nonaccrual status during the fourth quarter of 2009. Those reductions were partially offset by additional loans being transferred to nonaccrual status. In particular, in the fourth quarter of 2010 such transfers included an $80 million relationship with a residential builder and developer and $66 million of commercial construction loans to an owner/operator of retirement and assisted living facilities. The continuing softness in the residential real estate marketplace has resulted in depressed real estate values and high levels of delinquencies, both for loans to consumers and loans to builders and developers of residential real estate. Conditions in the U.S. economy have resulted in generally higher levels of nonaccrual loans than historically experienced by the Company.  

Accruing loans past due 90 days or more (excluding acquired loans) were $288 million or .48% of total loans and leases at December 31, 2011, compared with $251 million or .48% at December 31, 2010 and $205 million or .40% at December 31, 2009. Those loans included loans guaranteed by government-related entities of $253 million, $207 million and $193 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Such guaranteed loans included one-to-four family residential mortgage loans serviced by the Company that were repurchased to reduce servicing costs, including a requirement to advance principal and interest payments that had not been received from individual mortgagors. Despite the loans being purchased by the Company, the insurance or guarantee by the applicable government-related entity remains in force. The outstanding principal balances of the repurchased loans are fully guaranteed by government-related entities and totaled $241 million at December 31, 2011, $191 million at December 31, 2010 and $176 million at December 31, 2009. A summary of nonperforming assets and certain past due, renegotiated and impaired loan data and credit quality ratios is presented in table 11.  

Table 11  

NONPERFORMING ASSET AND PAST DUE, RENEGOTIATED AND IMPAIRED LOAN DATA  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Excludes acquired loans. Predominantly residential mortgage loans.  

 (b) Acquired accruing loans that were recorded at fair value at acquisition date. This category does not include purchased impaired loans that are presented separately.  

 (c) Accruing loans that were impaired at acquisition date and recorded at fair value.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Purchased impaired loans are loans obtained in acquisition transactions subsequent to 2008 that as of the acquisition date were specifically identified as displaying signs of credit deterioration and for which the Company did not expect to collect all outstanding principal and contractually required interest payments. Those loans were impaired at the date of acquisition, were recorded at estimated fair value and were generally delinquent in payments, but, in accordance with GAAP, the Company continues to accrue interest income on such loans based on the estimated expected cash flows associated with the loans. The carrying amount of such loans was $653 million at December 31, 2011, or approximately 1% of total loans. Of that amount, $604 million related to the Wilmington Trust acquisition.  

Acquired accruing loans past due 90 days or more are loans that could not be specifically identified as impaired as of the acquisition date, but were recorded at estimated fair value as of such date. Reflecting the impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition, such loans increased to $164 million at December 31, 2011 from $91 million at December 31, 2010.  

In an effort to assist borrowers, the Company modified the terms of select loans secured by residential real estate, largely from the Company’s portfolio of Alt-A loans. Included in loans outstanding at December 31, 2011 were $293 million of such modified loans, of which $133 million were classified as nonaccrual. The remaining modified loans have demonstrated payment capability consistent with the modified terms and, accordingly, were classified as renegotiated loans and were accruing interest at the 2011 year-end. Loan modifications included such actions as the extension of loan maturity dates (generally from thirty to forty years) and the lowering of interest rates and monthly payments. The objective of the modifications was to increase loan repayments by customers and thereby reduce net charge-offs. In accordance with GAAP, the modified loans are included in impaired loans for purposes of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses. Modified residential real estate loans totaled $308 million at December 31, 2010, of which $117 million were in nonaccrual status. Information about modifications of loans that are considered troubled debt restructurings is included in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Residential real estate loans modified under specified loss mitigation programs prescribed by government guarantors have not been included in renegotiated loans because the loan guarantee remains in full force and, accordingly, M&T has not granted a concession with respect to the ultimate collection of the original loan balance. Such loans aggregated $143 million and $106 million at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.  

Net charge-offs of commercial loans and leases totaled $45 million in 2011, $65 million in 2010 and $172 million in 2009. The higher level of charge-offs experienced during 2009 was largely the result of a few individually significant charge-offs in that year, including a $45 million partial charge-off of an unsecured loan to a single customer in the commercial real estate sector and a $42 million partial charge-off of a relationship with an operator of retirement communities. Commercial loans and leases in nonaccrual status were $164 million at December 31, 2011, $173 million at December 31, 2010 and $306 million at December 31, 2009. The decline from December 31, 2009 to the 2010 year-end reflects $62 million of payments related to a single borrower that operates retirement communities and the payoffs of a $37 million loan to a consumer finance and credit insurance company and a $36 million loan to a borrower in the commercial real estate sector.  

Net charge-offs of commercial real estate loans during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $77 million, $118 million and $121 million, respectively. Reflected in 2011’s charge-offs were $55 million of loans to residential real estate builders and developers, compared with $71 million in 2010 and $92 million in 2009. Commercial real estate loans classified as nonaccrual totaled $559 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $617 million at December 31, 2010 and $587 million at December 31, 2009. The decline in commercial real estate loans in nonaccrual status from the 2010 year-end to December 31, 2011 resulted largely from a $35 million decrease in such loans to homebuilders and developers, charge-offs of other commercial real estate loans classified as nonaccrual and payments received. The increase in such loans in 2010 from 2009 reflects a $12 million rise in nonperforming loans to homebuilders and developers and the addition of $66 million of construction loans to an owner/operator of retirement and assisted living facilities. Those factors were partially offset by the removal from this category of a loan collateralized by real estate in New York City that was initially placed on nonaccrual status in the fourth quarter of 2009. Following a $7 million charge-off, the remaining $98 million of that loan’s carrying value was transferred to “Real Estate and Other Foreclosed Assets” in the second quarter of 2010. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, loans to residential homebuilders and developers classified as nonaccrual aggregated $281 million and $317 million, respectively, compared with $305 million at December 31, 2009. Information about the location of nonaccrual and charged-off loans to residential real estate builders and developers as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented in table 12.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Table 12  

RESIDENTIAL BUILDER AND DEVELOPER LOANS, NET OF UNEARNED DISCOUNT  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes approximately $84 million of loans not secured by real estate, of which approximately $16 million are in nonaccrual status.  

Residential real estate loans charged off, net of recoveries, were $52 million in 2011, $61 million in 2010 and $92 million in 2009. Nonaccrual residential real estate loans at the end of 2011 totaled $278 million, compared with $268 million and $276 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Depressed real estate values and high levels of delinquencies have contributed to the higher than historical levels of residential real estate loans classified as nonaccrual at the three most recent year-ends and to the elevated levels of charge-offs, largely in the Company’s Alt-A portfolio. Net charge-offs of Alt-A loans were $32 million in 2011, $34 million in 2010 and $52 million in 2009. Nonaccrual Alt-A loans aggregated $105 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $106 million and $112 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Residential real estate loans past due 90 days or more and accruing interest (excluding acquired loans) totaled $250 million, $192 million and $178 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A substantial portion of such amounts related to guaranteed loans repurchased from government-related entities. Information about the location of nonaccrual and charged-off residential real estate loans as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented in table 13.  

Net charge-offs of consumer loans during 2011 were $91 million, representing .77% of average consumer loans and leases outstanding, compared with $102 million or .87% in 2010 and $129 million or 1.10% in 2009. Net charge-offs of automobile loans were $22 million during 2011, $32 million during 2010 and $56 million during 2009. Net charge-offs of recreational vehicle loans were $21 million, $23 million and $25 million during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and of home equity loans and lines of credit secured by one-to-four family residential properties were $33 million during 2011, $31 million during 2010 and $39 million during 2009. Nonaccrual consumer loans were $97 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $80 million and $86 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Included in nonaccrual consumer loans and leases at the 2011, 2010 and 2009 year-ends were: automobile loans of $27 million, $32 million and $39 million, respectively; recreational vehicle loans of $13 million, $12 million and $15 million; and outstanding balances of home equity loans and lines of credit, including junior lien Alt-A loans, of $47 million, $33 million and $30 million, respectively. Consumer loans past due 90 days or more and accruing interest totaled $5 million at December 31, 2011, and $4 million at each of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Information about the location of nonaccrual and charged-off home equity loans and lines of credit as of and for the year ended December 31, 2011 is presented in table 13. As noted in the table, in general, net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans for junior lien portfolios are higher than those for first lien portfolios.  

59  

Table of Contents 

Table 13  

SELECTED RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE-RELATED LOAN DATA  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

60  

Table of Contents 

Information about past due and nonaccrual loans as of December 31, 2011 is also included in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Management determined the allowance for credit losses by performing ongoing evaluations of the loan and lease portfolio, including such factors as the differing economic risks associated with each loan category, the financial condition of specific borrowers, the economic environment in which borrowers operate, the level of delinquent loans, the value of any collateral and, where applicable, the existence of any guarantees or indemnifications. Management evaluated the impact of changes in interest rates and overall economic conditions on the ability of borrowers to meet repayment obligations when quantifying the Company’s exposure to credit losses and the allowance for such losses as of each reporting date. Factors also considered by management when performing its assessment, in addition to general economic conditions and the other factors described above, included, but were not limited to: (i) the impact of declining residential real estate values in the Company’s portfolio of loans to residential real estate builders and developers; (ii) the repayment performance associated with the Company’s portfolio of Alt-A residential mortgage loans; (iii) the concentrations of commercial real estate loans in the Company’s loan portfolio; (iv) the amount of commercial and industrial loans to businesses in areas of New York State outside of the New York City metropolitan area and in central Pennsylvania that have historically experienced less economic growth and vitality than the vast majority of other regions of the country; and (v) the size of the Company’s portfolio of loans to individual consumers, which historically have experienced higher net charge-offs as a percentage of loans outstanding than other loan types. The level of the allowance is adjusted based on the results of management’s analysis.  

Management cautiously and conservatively evaluated the allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2011 in light of: (i) residential real estate values and the level of delinquencies of residential real estate loans; (ii) economic conditions in the markets served by the Company; (iii) continuing weakness in industrial employment in upstate New York and central Pennsylvania; (iv) the significant subjectivity involved in commercial real estate valuations for properties located in areas with stagnant or low growth economies; and (v) the amount of loan growth experienced by the Company. Considerable concerns exist about economic conditions in both national and international markets; the level and volatility of energy prices; a weakened housing market; the troubled state of financial and credit markets; Federal Reserve positioning of monetary policy; high levels of unemployment; the impact of economic conditions on businesses’ operations and abilities to repay loans; continued stagnant population growth in the upstate New York and central Pennsylvania regions; and continued uncertainty about possible responses to state and local government budget deficits. Although the U.S. economy experienced recession and weak economic conditions during recent years, the impact of those conditions was not as pronounced on borrowers in the traditionally slower growth regions of upstate New York and central Pennsylvania. Approximately 60% of the Company’s loans are to customers in New York State and Pennsylvania. Home prices in upstate New York and central Pennsylvania were relatively stable in recent years, in contrast to declines in values in many other regions of the country. Therefore, despite the conditions, as previously described, the most severe credit issues experienced by the Company during the recent financial downturn have been centered around residential real estate, including loans to builders and developers of residential real estate, in areas other than New York State and Pennsylvania. In response, the Company has expanded its normal loan review process to conduct detailed reviews of all loans to residential real estate builders and developers that exceeded $2.5 million. Those credit reviews often resulted in commencement of intensified collection efforts, including foreclosure.  

The Company utilizes a loan grading system which is applied to all commercial and commercial real estate loans. Loan grades are utilized to differentiate risk within the portfolio and consider the expectations of default for each loan. Commercial loans and commercial real estate loans with a lower expectation of default are assigned one of ten possible “pass” loan grades and are generally ascribed lower loss factors when determining the allowance for credit losses. Loans with an elevated level of credit risk are classified as “criticized” and are ascribed a higher loss factor when determining the allowance for credit losses. Criticized loans may be classified as “nonaccrual” if the Company no longer expects to collect all amounts according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement or the loan is delinquent 90 days or more. Loan officers with the support of loan review personnel in different geographic locations are responsible to continuously review and reassign loan grades to pass and criticized loans based on their detailed knowledge of individual borrowers and their judgment of the impact on such borrowers resulting from changing conditions in their respective geographic regions. On a quarterly basis, the Company’s centralized loan review department reviews all criticized commercial and commercial real estate loans greater than $1 million to determine the appropriateness of the assigned loan grade, including whether the loan should be reported as accruing or nonaccruing. For criticized nonaccrual loans, additional meetings are held  

61  

Table of Contents 

 with loan officers and their managers, workout specialists and senior management to discuss each of the relationships. In analyzing criticized loans, borrower-specific information is reviewed, including operating results, future cash flows, recent developments and the borrower’s outlook, and other pertinent data. The timing and extent of potential losses, considering collateral valuation and other factors, and the Company’s potential courses of action are reviewed. To the extent that these loans are collateral-dependent, they are evaluated based on the fair value of the loan’s collateral as estimated at or near the financial statement date. As the quality of a loan deteriorates to the point of classifying the loan as “criticized,” the process of obtaining updated collateral valuation information is usually initiated, unless it is not considered warranted given factors such as the relative size of the loan, the characteristics of the collateral or the age of the last valuation. In those cases where current appraisals may not yet be available, prior appraisals are utilized with adjustments, as deemed necessary, for estimates of subsequent declines in value as determined by line of business and/or loan workout personnel in the respective geographic regions. Those adjustments are reviewed and assessed for reasonableness by the Company’s loan review department. Accordingly, for real estate collateral securing larger commercial and commercial real estate loans, estimated collateral values are based on current appraisals and estimates of value. For non-real estate loans, collateral is assigned a discounted estimated liquidation value and, depending on the nature of the collateral, is verified through field exams or other procedures. In assessing collateral, real estate and non-real estate values are reduced by an estimate of selling costs. With regard to residential real estate loans, the Company expanded its collections and loan workout staff and further refined its loss identification and estimation techniques by reference to loan performance and house price depreciation data in specific areas of the country where collateral that was securing the Company’s residential real estate loans was located. For residential real estate-related loans, including home equity loans and lines of credit, the excess of the loan balance over the net realizable value of the property collateralizing the loan is charged-off when the loan becomes 150 days delinquent. That charge-off is based on recent indications of value from external parties that are generally obtained shortly after a loan becomes nonaccrual. At December 31, 2011, approximately 35% of the Company’s home equity portfolio consisted of first lien loans. Of the remaining junior lien loans in the portfolio, approximately 85% were behind a first lien mortgage loan that was not owned or serviced by the Company. For the junior lien loans where an entity other than the Company held a first lien mortgage, the Company cannot precisely determine whether there is a delinquency on such first lien mortgage. In monitoring the credit quality of its home equity portfolio for purposes of determining the allowance for credit losses, the Company reviews delinquency and nonaccrual information and considers recent charge-off experience as presented in tables 10 and 13. Additionally, the Company generally evaluates home equity loans and lines of credit that are more than 150 days past due for collectibility on a loan-by-loan basis and the excess of the loan balance over the net realizable value of the property collateralizing the loan is charged-off at that time. Home equity line of credit terms vary but such lines are generally originated with an open draw period of ten years followed by an amortization period of up to twenty years. At December 31, 2011, approximately 97% of all outstanding balances of home equity lines of credit related to lines that were still in the draw period, the weighted-average remaining draw periods were approximately 5 years, and approximately 18% were making contractually allowed payments that do not include any repayment of principal.  

Factors that influence the Company’s credit loss experience include overall economic conditions affecting businesses and consumers, generally, but also residential and commercial real estate valuations, in particular, given the size of the Company’s real estate loan portfolios. Reflecting the factors and conditions as described herein, the Company has experienced historically high levels of nonaccrual loans and net charge-offs of residential real estate-related loans, including first and junior lien Alt-A mortgage loans and loans to builders and developers of residential real estate. The Company has also experienced higher than historical levels of nonaccrual commercial real estate loans since 2009. Commercial real estate valuations can be highly subjective, as they are based upon many assumptions. Such valuations can be significantly affected over relatively short periods of time by changes in business climate, economic conditions, interest rates, and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants of the real property. Similarly, residential real estate valuations can be impacted by housing trends, the availability of financing at reasonable interest rates, and general economic conditions affecting consumers.  

In determining the allowance for credit losses, the Company estimates losses attributable to specific troubled credits identified through both normal and detailed or intensified credit review processes and also estimates losses inherent in other loans and leases. In quantifying incurred losses, the Company considers the factors and uses the techniques described herein. For purposes of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses, the Company segments its loan and lease portfolio by loan type. The amount of specific loss components in the Company’s loan and lease portfolios is determined through a loan by loan analysis of commercial loans  

62  

Table of Contents 

 and commercial real estate loans in nonaccrual status. Measurement of the specific loss components is typically based on expected future cash flows, collateral values or other factors that may impact the borrower’s ability to pay. Except for consumer loans and leases and residential real estate loans that are considered smaller balance homogeneous loans and are evaluated collectively and loans obtained in acquisition transactions, the Company considers a loan to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement or the loan is delinquent 90 days or more and has been placed in nonaccrual status. Those impaired loans are evaluated for specific loss components. Modified loans, including smaller balance homogenous loans, that are considered to be troubled debt restructurings are evaluated for impairment giving consideration to the impact of the modified loan terms on the present value of the loan’s expected cash flows. Loans less than 90 days delinquent are deemed to have a minimal delay in payment and are generally not considered to be impaired. Loans acquired in connection with acquisition transactions subsequent to 2008 were recorded at fair value with no carry-over of any previously recorded allowance for credit losses. Determining the fair value of the acquired loans required estimating cash flows expected to be collected on the loans and discounting those cash flows at then-current interest rates. The impact of estimated future credit losses represents the predominant difference between contractually required payments at acquisition and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition. Subsequent decreases to those expected cash flows require the Company to evaluate the need for an additional allowance for credit losses and could lead to charge-offs of acquired loan balances.  

The inherent base level loss components of the Company’s allowance for credit losses are generally determined by applying loss factors to specific loan balances based on loan type and management’s classification of such loans under the Company’s loan grading system. The Company utilizes a loan grading system which is applied to all commercial and commercial real estate credits. As previously described, loan officers are responsible for continually assigning grades to these loans based on standards outlined in the Company’s Credit Policy. Internal loan grades are also extensively monitored by the Company’s loan review department to ensure consistency and strict adherence to the prescribed standards. Loan balances utilized in the inherent base level loss component computations exclude loans and leases for which specific allocations are maintained. Loan grades are assigned loss component factors that reflect the Company’s loss estimate for each group of loans and leases. Factors considered in assigning loan grades and loss component factors include borrower-specific information related to expected future cash flows and operating results, collateral values, financial condition, payment status, and other information; levels of and trends in portfolio charge-offs and recoveries; levels of and trends in portfolio delinquencies and impaired loans; changes in the risk profile of specific portfolios; trends in volume and terms of loans; effects of changes in credit concentrations; and observed trends and practices in the banking industry. In determining the allowance for credit losses, management also gives consideration to such factors as customer, industry and geographic concentrations as well as national and local economic conditions including: (i) the comparatively poorer economic conditions and unfavorable business climate in many market regions served by the Company, specifically upstate New York and central Pennsylvania, that result in such regions generally experiencing significantly poorer economic growth and vitality as compared with much of the rest of the country; (ii) portfolio concentrations regarding loan type, collateral type and geographic location; and (iii) additional risk associated with the Company’s portfolio of consumer loans, in particular automobile loans and leases, which generally have higher rates of loss than other types of collateralized loans.  

The inherent base level loss components related to residential real estate loans and consumer loans are generally determined by applying loss factors to portfolio balances after consideration of payment performance and recent loss experience and trends, which are mainly driven by current collateral values in the market place as well as the amount of loan defaults. Loss rates for loans secured by residential real estate, including home equity loans and lines of credit, are determined by reference to recent charge-off history and are evaluated (and adjusted if deemed appropriate) through consideration of other factors including near-term forecasted loss estimates developed by the Company’s credit department. These forecasts give consideration to overall borrower repayment performance and current geographic region changes in collateral values using third party published historical price indices or automated valuation methodologies. With regard to collateral values, the realizability of such values by the Company contemplates repayment of any first lien position prior to recovering amounts on a junior lien position. Approximately 65% of the Company’s home equity portfolio consists of junior lien loans and lines of credit. The Company generally evaluates residential real estate loans and home equity loans and lines of credit that are more than 150 days past due for collectibility on a loan-by-loan basis and the excess of the loan balance over the net realizable value of the property collateralizing the loan is charged-off at that time.  

63  

Table of Contents 

In evaluating collateral, the Company relies extensively on internally and externally prepared valuations. In recent years, valuations of residential real estate, which are usually based on sales of comparable properties, declined significantly in many regions across the United States. Commercial real estate valuations also refer to sales of comparable properties but oftentimes are based on calculations that utilize many assumptions and, as a result, can be highly subjective. Specifically, commercial real estate values can be significantly affected over relatively short periods of time by changes in business climate, economic conditions and interest rates, and, in many cases, the results of operations of businesses and other occupants of the real property. Additionally, management is aware that there is oftentimes a delay in the recognition of credit quality changes in loans and, as a result, in changes to assigned loan grades due to time delays in the manifestation and reporting of underlying events that impact credit quality. Accordingly, loss estimates derived from the inherent base level loss component computation are adjusted for current national and local economic conditions and trends. Economic indicators in the most significant market regions served by the Company improved somewhat during 2011 but remained generally below pre-recession levels. For example, during 2011, private sector employment in most market areas served by the Company rose by 0.9%, roughly half the 1.6% U.S. average. Private sector employment in 2011 increased 1.0% in upstate New York, 0.9% in areas of Pennsylvania served by the Company, 0.4% in Maryland, 0.6% in Greater Washington D.C. and 0.1% in the State of Delaware. In New York City, private sector employment increased by 1.4% in 2011, however, unemployment rates there remain elevated and are expected to continue at above historical levels during 2012. At the end of 2011 there remained significant concerns about the pace of national economic recovery from the recession, high unemployment, real estate valuations, high levels of consumer indebtedness, volatile energy prices, state and local government budget deficits and sovereign debt issues in Europe that weigh on the global economic outlook. Those factors are expected to act as significant headwinds for the national economy in 2012.  

The specific loss components and the inherent base level loss components together comprise the total base level or “allocated” allowance for credit losses. Such allocated portion of the allowance represents management’s assessment of losses existing in specific larger balance loans that are reviewed in detail by management and pools of other loans that are not individually analyzed. In addition, the Company has always provided an inherent unallocated portion of the allowance that is intended to recognize probable losses that are not otherwise identifiable. The inherent unallocated allowance includes management’s subjective determination of amounts necessary for such things as the possible use of imprecise estimates in determining the allocated portion of the allowance and other risks associated with the Company’s loan portfolio which may not be specifically allocable.  

A comparative allocation of the allowance for credit losses for each of the past five year-ends is presented in table 14. Amounts were allocated to specific loan categories based on information available to management at the time of each year-end assessment and using the methodology described herein. Variations in the allocation of the allowance by loan category as a percentage of those loans reflect changes in management’s estimate of specific loss components and inherent base level loss components, including the impact of delinquencies and nonaccrual loans. As described in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements, loans considered impaired were $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The allocated portion of the allowance for credit losses related to impaired loans totaled $168 million at December 31, 2011 and $214 million at December 31, 2010. The unallocated portion of the allowance for credit losses was equal to .12% and .13% of gross loans outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decline in the unallocated portion of the allowance in 2008 reflects management’s refinement of its loss estimation techniques, which had increased the precision of its calculation of the allocated portion of the allowance for credit losses. However, given the inherent imprecision in the many estimates used in the determination of the allocated portion of the allowance, management deliberately remained cautious and conservative in establishing the overall allowance for credit losses. Given the Company’s high concentration of real estate loans and considering the other factors already discussed herein, management considers the allocated and unallocated portions of the allowance for credit losses to be prudent and reasonable. Furthermore, the Company’s allowance is general in nature and is available to absorb losses from any loan or lease category. Additional information about the allowance for credit losses is included in note 5 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

64  

Table of Contents 

Table 14  

ALLOCATION OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES TO LOAN CATEGORIES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Management believes that the allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2011 appropriately reflected credit losses inherent in the portfolio as of that date. The allowance for credit losses was $908 million or 1.51% of total loans and leases at December 31, 2011, compared with $903 million or 1.74% at December 31, 2010 and $878 million or 1.69% at December 31, 2009. The ratio of the allowance to total loans and leases at each respective year-end reflects the impact of loans obtained in acquisition transactions subsequent to 2008 that have been recorded at estimated fair value based on estimated future cash flows expected to be received on those loans. Those cash flows reflect the impact of expected defaults on customer repayment performance. As noted earlier, GAAP prohibits any carry-over of an allowance for credit losses for acquired loans recorded at fair value. The decline in the ratio of the allowance to total loans and leases from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 reflects the impact of $5.5 billion of loans obtained in the acquisition of Wilmington Trust. The level of the allowance reflects management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio using the methodology and considering the factors as described herein. Should the various credit factors considered by management in establishing the allowance for credit losses change and should management’s assessment of losses inherent in the loan portfolios also change, the level of the allowance as a percentage of loans could increase or decrease in future periods. The ratio of the allowance to nonaccrual loans at the end of 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 83%, 79% and 70%, respectively. Given the Company’s position as a secured lender and its practice of charging off loan balances when collection is deemed doubtful, that ratio and changes in that ratio are generally not an indicative measure of the adequacy of the Company’s allowance for credit losses, nor does management rely upon that ratio in determining the allowance. The level of the allowance reflects management’s evaluation of the loan and lease portfolio as of each respective date.  

In establishing the allowance for credit losses, management follows the methodology described herein, including taking a conservative view of borrowers’ abilities to repay loans. The establishment of the allowance is extremely subjective and requires management to make many judgments about borrower, industry, regional and national economic health and performance. In order to present examples of the possible impact on the allowance from certain changes in credit quality factors, the Company assumed the following scenarios for possible deterioration of credit quality:  

   —    For consumer loans and leases considered smaller balance homogenous loans and evaluated collectively, a 20 basis point increase in loss factors;  

   —    For residential real estate loans and home equity loans and lines of credit, also considered smaller balance homogenous loans and evaluated collectively, a 15% increase in estimated inherent losses; and  

   —    For commercial loans and commercial real estate loans, a migration of loans to lower-ranked risk grades resulting in a 20% increase in the balance of classified credits in each risk grade.  

65  

Table of Contents 

For possible improvement in credit quality factors, the scenarios assumed were:  

   —    For consumer loans and leases, a 10 basis point decrease in loss factors;  

   —    For residential real estate loans and home equity loans and lines of credit, a 5% decrease in estimated inherent losses; and  

   —    For commercial loans and commercial real estate loans, a migration of loans to higher-ranked risk grades resulting in a 5% decrease in the balance of classified credits in each risk grade.  

The scenario analyses resulted in an additional $70 million that could be identifiable under the assumptions for credit deterioration, whereas under the assumptions for credit improvement a $22 million reduction could occur. These examples are only a few of numerous reasonably possible scenarios that could be utilized in assessing the sensitivity of the allowance for credit losses based on changes in assumptions and other factors.  

Investor-owned commercial real estate loans secured by retail properties in the New York City metropolitan area represented 3% of loans outstanding at December 31, 2011. The Company had no concentrations of credit extended to any specific industry that exceeded 10% of total loans at December 31, 2011. Outstanding loans to foreign borrowers were $128 million at December 31, 2011, or .2% of total loans and leases.  

Real estate and other foreclosed assets totaled to $157 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $220 million at December 31, 2010 and $95 million at December 31, 2009. The decline in such assets at December 31, 2011 as compared with the 2010 year-end reflects the sale during the second quarter of 2011 of a commercial real estate property located in New York City with a carrying value of $98 million. The increase in 2010 as compared with 2009 resulted from the second quarter addition of that previously discussed commercial real estate property located in New York City, and from higher residential real estate loan defaults and additions from residential real estate development projects. At December 31, 2011, 65% of foreclosed assets were comprised of residential real estate-related properties. Reflected in real estate and other foreclosed assets at December 31, 2011 were $48 million of assets associated with the Wilmington Trust acquisition.  

Other Income  

Other income aggregated $1.58 billion in 2011, up 43% from $1.11 billion in 2010. Reflected in such income were net gains and losses on investment securities (including other-than-temporary impairment losses), which totaled to a net gain of $73 million in 2011 and to a net loss of $84 million in 2010. Also reflected in other income were the $55 million CDO litigation settlement in 2011, the $65 million gain recognized on the Wilmington Trust acquisition in 2011 and the $28 million gain recognized on the K Bank acquisition transaction in 2010. Excluding the specific items mentioned above, noninterest income was $1.39 billion in 2011, up $226 million from $1.16 billion in 2010. The predominant contributor to that $226 million rise in noninterest income was higher trust income resulting from the acquisition of Wilmington Trust. Higher revenues in 2011 from credit-related fees and merchant discount and credit card fees were offset by lower income from residential mortgage banking and service charges on deposit accounts.  

Other income in 2010 was 6% higher than the $1.05 billion earned in 2009. As noted above, reflected in other income in 2010 were net losses from bank investment securities of $84 million, compared with net losses of $137 million in 2009. Excluding the impact of securities gains and losses from both years, the $28 million gain associated with the K Bank acquisition transaction in 2010 and the $29 million gain associated with the Bradford acquisition transaction in 2009, other income was $1.16 billion in each of 2010 and 2009. Higher revenues in 2010 related to commercial mortgage banking, service charges on deposit accounts, credit-related fees and other revenues from operations were offset by lower revenues from residential mortgage banking, brokerage services and the Company’s trust business.  

Mortgage banking revenues were $166 million in 2011, $185 million in 2010 and $208 million in 2009. Mortgage banking revenues are comprised of both residential and commercial mortgage banking activities. The Company’s involvement in commercial mortgage banking activities includes the origination, sales and servicing of loans under the multi-family loan programs of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.  

Residential mortgage banking revenues, consisting of realized gains from sales of residential mortgage loans and loan servicing rights, unrealized gains and losses on residential mortgage loans held for sale and related commitments, residential mortgage loan servicing fees, and other residential mortgage loan-related fees and income, were $103 million in 2011, $127 million in 2010 and $166 million in 2009. The lower revenue in 2011 as compared with 2010 was largely attributable to lower volumes of loans originated  

66  

Table of Contents 

 for sale, which reflects the Company retaining for portfolio during most of 2011 a large portion of residential real estate loans originated. The decline in such revenues in 2010 from 2009 also reflects the impact of lower origination volumes and the Company’s decision in September 2010 to retain for portfolio a higher proportion of originated loans rather than selling them, plus the impact of increased costs associated with obligations to repurchase certain mortgage loans previously sold.  

New commitments to originate residential mortgage loans to be sold were approximately $1.9 billion in 2011, compared with $4.1 billion in 2010 and $6.1 billion in 2009. Similarly, closed residential mortgage loans originated for sale to other investors totaled approximately $2.0 billion in 2011, $4.2 billion in 2010 and $6.2 billion in 2009. Realized gains from sales of residential mortgage loans and loan servicing rights (net of the impact of costs associated with obligations to repurchase mortgage loans originated for sale) and recognized net unrealized gains or losses attributable to residential mortgage loans held for sale, commitments to originate loans for sale and commitments to sell loans totaled to a gain of $17 million in 2011, compared with gains of $43 million in 2010 and $79 million in 2009.  

The Company is contractually obligated to repurchase previously sold loans that do not ultimately meet investor sale criteria related to underwriting procedures or loan documentation. When required to do so, the Company may reimburse purchasers for losses incurred or may repurchase certain loans. The Company reduces residential mortgage banking revenues for losses related to its obligations to loan purchasers. The amount of those charges varies based on the volume of loans sold, the level of reimbursement requests received from loan purchasers and estimates of losses that may be associated with previously sold loans. Residential mortgage banking revenues during 2011, 2010 and 2009 were reduced by approximately $23 million, $30 million and $10 million, respectively, related to the actual or anticipated settlement of repurchase obligations.  

Late in the third quarter of 2010, the Company began to originate certain residential real estate loans to be held in its loan portfolio, rather than continuing to sell such loans. The loans conform to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines. Retaining those residential real estate loans offset the impact of the declining investment securities portfolio resulting from maturities and pay-downs of residential mortgage-backed securities while providing high quality assets earning a reasonable yield. From March through June 2011, the Company resumed originating for sale the majority of new residential real estate loans. However, beginning in July 2011, the Company resumed originating the majority of residential real estate loans to be held in its loan portfolio. The decision to retain for portfolio the majority of such loans originated rather than selling them resulted in a reduction of residential mortgage banking revenues of approximately $27 million and $11 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Loans held for sale that are secured by residential real estate totaled $210 million and $341 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Commitments to sell residential mortgage loans and commitments to originate residential mortgage loans for sale at pre-determined rates were $296 million and $182 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011, $458 million and $162 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010 and $936 million and $631 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Net unrealized gains on residential mortgage loans held for sale, commitments to sell loans, and commitments to originate loans for sale were $6 million and $11 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and $15 million at December 31, 2009. Changes in such net unrealized gains and losses are recorded in mortgage banking revenues and resulted in net decreases in revenue of $4 million and $5 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and a net increase in revenue of $9 million in 2009.  

Revenues from servicing residential mortgage loans for others were $83 million in 2011, compared with $80 million in 2010 and $82 million in 2009. Included in such servicing revenues were amounts related to purchased servicing rights associated with small balance commercial mortgage loans totaling $23 million in 2011, $27 million in 2010 and $29 million in 2009. Residential mortgage loans serviced for others aggregated $40.7 billion at December 31, 2011, $21.1 billion a year earlier and $21.4 billion at December 31, 2009, including the small balance commercial mortgage loans noted above of approximately $4.4 billion, $5.2 billion and $5.5 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Reflected in residential mortgage loans serviced for others were loans sub-serviced for others of $14.3 billion at December 31, 2011. Loans sub-serviced for others were not significant at December 31, 2010. During 2011, the Company purchased servicing rights which had outstanding principal balances at December 31, 2011 totaling $6.4 billion. Capitalized residential mortgage loan servicing assets, net of any applicable valuation allowance for possible impairment, totaled $145 million at December 31, 2011, compared with $118 million and $141 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The valuation allowance for possible impairment of capitalized residential mortgage servicing assets totaled $2 million and $50 thousand at the 2011 and 2009  

67  

Table of Contents 

 year-ends, respectively. There was no similar valuation allowance at December 31, 2010. On September 30, 2011, the Company purchased servicing rights associated with residential mortgage loans having an outstanding principal balance of approximately $6.7 billion. The purchase price for such servicing rights was $54 million. Approximately $5 million of servicing fees related to that portfolio of loans were included in mortgage banking revenues during 2011. Included in capitalized residential mortgage servicing assets were purchased servicing rights associated with the small balance commercial mortgage loans noted above of $16 million, $26 million and $40 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Servicing rights for the small balance commercial mortgage loans were purchased from BLG or its affiliates. In addition, at December 31, 2011 and 2010 capitalized servicing rights included $5 million and $9 million, respectively, of servicing rights for $3.1 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, of residential real estate loans that were purchased from affiliates of BLG. Additional information about the Company’s relationship with BLG and its affiliates is provided in note 25 of Notes to Financial Statements. Additional information about the Company’s capitalized residential mortgage loan servicing assets, including information about the calculation of estimated fair value, is presented in note 7 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Commercial mortgage banking revenues totaled $63 million in 2011, $58 million in 2010 and $42 million in 2009. Revenues from loan origination and sales activities were $41 million in 2011, $40 million in 2010 and $27 million in 2009. Commercial mortgage loans originated for sale to other investors totaled approximately $1.5 billion in 2011, compared with $1.6 billion in 2010 and $1.1 billion in 2009. Loan servicing revenues totaled $22 million in 2011, $18 million in 2010 and $15 million in 2009. Capitalized commercial mortgage loan servicing assets aggregated $51 million at December 31, 2011, $43 million at December 31, 2010 and $33 million at December 31, 2009. Commercial mortgage loans serviced for other investors totaled $9.0 billion, $8.1 billion and $7.1 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and included $1.8 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, of loan balances for which investors had recourse to the Company if such balances are ultimately uncollectible. Commitments to sell commercial mortgage loans and commitments to originate commercial mortgage loans for sale were $339 million and $178 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011, $276 million and $73 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010 and $303 million and $180 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale totaled $161 million, $204 million and $123 million at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Service charges on deposit accounts declined 5% to $455 million in 2011 from $478 million in 2010. That decline resulted from regulatory changes that went into effect during the third quarter of 2010 and in the fourth quarter of 2011. The 2010 change related to regulations promulgated by the Federal Reserve and other bank regulators that require consumers to elect to be subject to fees for overdraft and certain deposit account transactions before a financial institution may charge such fees. The Company estimates that the impact of such regulations was to reduce service charges on deposit accounts by approximately $68 million and $35 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The regulatory changes that were effective October 1, 2011 were part of the Dodd-Frank Act and limit debit card-interchange fees that financial institutions are able to assess. The Company estimates that the impact of that change resulted in a reduction of service charges on deposit accounts in the fourth quarter of 2011 of approximately $17 million. Partially offsetting the impact of the new regulations were service charges on deposit accounts obtained in the Wilmington Trust acquisition, which totaled approximately $18 million in 2011. Deposit account service charges in 2009 were $469 million. The improvement from 2009 to 2010 resulted largely from the full-year impact of 2009 acquisition transactions and increased debit card fees resulting from higher transaction volumes. Those positive factors were partially offset by the impact of regulations that went into effect during the third quarter of 2010.  

Trust income includes fees for trust and custody services provided to personal, corporate and institutional customers, and investment management and advisory fees that are often based on a percentage of the market value of assets under management. Trust income rose dramatically in 2011, up 171% to $332 million in 2011 from $123 million in 2010. During 2009, trust income totaled $129 million. The Wilmington Trust acquisition contributed $217 million to trust income in 2011. That acquisition brought with it two significant sources of trust income. The Corporate Client Services (“CCS”) business provides a variety of trustee, agency, investment management and administrative services for corporations and institutions, investment bankers, corporate tax, finance and legal executives, and other institutional clients who: (i) use capital markets financing structures; (ii) use independent trustees to hold retirement plan and other assets; and (iii) need investment and cash management services. Many CCS clients are multinational corporations and institutions. The Wealth Advisory Services (“WAS”) business helps high net worth clients grow their wealth, protect it, and transfer it to their heirs. A comprehensive array of wealth management  

68  

Table of Contents 

 services are offered, including asset management, fiduciary services and family office services. Trust income in 2011 reflects $119 million of revenues from acquired CCS activities and $87 million from acquired WAS activities. Adversely impacting trust income in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were fee waivers by the Company in order to pay customers a yield on their investments in the proprietary money-market mutual funds. Those waived fees were approximately $33 million in 2011, $18 million in 2010 and $10 million in 2009. Total trust assets, which include assets under management and assets under administration, aggregated $261.9 billion at December 31, 2011, compared with $113.4 billion at December 31, 2010. Trust assets under management were $52.7 billion and $13.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The acquisition of Wilmington Trust added trust assets under management and assets under administration aggregating $42.2 billion and $154.1 billion, respectively, during the second quarter of 2011. In addition to the asset amounts noted above, trust assets under management of affiliates (obtained in the Wilmington Trust transaction) totaled $14.3 billion at December 31, 2011. Furthermore, the Company’s proprietary mutual funds had assets of $13.8 billion and $7.7 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Brokerage services income, which includes revenues from the sale of mutual funds and annuities and securities brokerage fees, aggregated $56 million in 2011, $50 million in 2010 and $58 million in 2009. The decline in revenues in 2010 as compared with 2011 and 2009 was attributable to lower sales of annuity products. Trading account and foreign exchange activity resulted in gains of $27 million in each of 2011 and 2010, and $23 million in 2009. The rise in gains from 2009 to 2010 and 2011 was due to higher new volumes of interest rate swap agreement transactions executed on behalf of commercial customers in the two latest years. The Company enters into interest rate and foreign exchange contracts with customers who need such services and concomitantly enters into offsetting trading positions with third parties to minimize the risks involved with these types of transactions. Information about the notional amount of interest rate, foreign exchange and other contracts entered into by the Company for trading account purposes is included in note 18 of Notes to Financial Statements and herein under the heading “Liquidity, Market Risk, and Interest Rate Sensitivity.”  

Including other-than-temporary impairment losses, the Company recognized net gains on investment securities of $73 million during 2011, compared with net losses of $84 million and $137 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. During 2011 the Company realized gains of $150 million from the sale of investment securities available for sale, predominantly residential mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, collateralized debt obligations and trust preferred securities, having an amortized cost of $1.75 billion. Realized gains and losses from sales of investment securities were not significant in 2010 or 2009. Other-than-temporary impairment charges of $77 million, $86 million and $138 million were recorded in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The charges recorded in 2011 related to certain privately issued CMOs backed by residential and commercial real estate loans. The Company recognized impairment charges during 2010 of $68 million related to certain privately issued CMOs backed by residential and commercial real estate loans, $6 million related to CDOs backed by trust preferred securities issued by financial institutions and other entities, and a $12 million write-down of AIB ADSs. The AIB ADSs were obtained in a prior acquisition of a subsidiary of AIB and were held to satisfy options to purchase such shares granted by that subsidiary to certain of its employees. During 2009, the Company recognized impairment charges on certain privately issued CMOs backed by residential real estate loans of $128 million and CDOs backed by trust preferred securities of $10 million. Each reporting period the Company reviews its impaired investment securities for other-than-temporary impairment. For equity securities, the Company considers various factors to determine if the decline in value is other than temporary, including the duration and extent of the decline in value, the factors contributing to the decline in fair value, including the financial condition of the issuer as well as the conditions of the industry in which it operates, and the prospects for a recovery in fair value of the equity security. For debt securities, the Company analyzes the creditworthiness of the issuer or reviews the credit performance of the underlying collateral supporting the bond. For debt securities backed by pools of loans, such as privately issued mortgage-backed securities, the Company estimates the cash flows of the underlying loan collateral using forward-looking assumptions of default rates, loss severities and prepayment speeds. Estimated collateral cash flows are then utilized to estimate bond-specific cash flows to determine the ultimate collectibility of the bond. If the present value of the cash flows indicates that the Company should not expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of a bond or if the Company intends to sell the bond or it more likely than not will be required to sell the bond before recovery of its amortized cost basis, an other-than-temporary impairment loss is recognized. If an other-than-temporary impairment loss is deemed to have occurred, the investment security’s cost basis is adjusted, as appropriate for the circumstances. Additional information about other-than-temporary impairment losses is included herein under the heading “Capital.”  

69  

Table of Contents 

M&T’s share of the operating losses of BLG was $24 million in 2011, compared with $26 million in each of 2010 and 2009. The operating losses of BLG in the respective years resulted from the disruptions in the residential and commercial real estate markets and reflected provisions for losses associated with securitized loans and other loans held by BLG, loan servicing and other administrative costs, and in 2009 also reflected costs associated with severance and certain lease terminations incurred by BLG as it downsized its operations. The loan losses largely relate to loans in non-recourse securitization trusts that BLG consolidates in its financial statements. Under GAAP, such losses are required to be recognized by BLG despite the fact that many of the securitized loan losses will ultimately be borne by the underlying third party bond-holders. As these loan losses are realized through later foreclosure and still later sale of real estate collateral, the underlying bonds will be charged-down resulting in BLG’s future recognition of debt extinguishment gains. The timing of such debt extinguishment is largely dependent on the timing of loan workouts and collateral liquidations and given ongoing loan loss provisioning it is difficult to project when BLG will return to profitability. Despite the credit and liquidity disruptions that began in 2007, BLG had been successfully securitizing and selling significant volumes of small-balance commercial real estate loans until the first quarter of 2008. However, in response to the illiquidity in the marketplace since that time, BLG ceased its originations activities. As a result of past securitization activities, BLG is still entitled to cash flows from mortgage assets that it owns or that are owned by its affiliates and is also entitled to receive distributions from affiliates that provide asset management and other services. Accordingly, the Company believes that BLG is capable of realizing positive cash flows that could be available for distribution to its owners, including M&T, despite a lack of positive GAAP-earnings from its core mortgage origination and securitization activities. To this point, BLG’s affiliates have reinvested their earnings to generate additional servicing and asset management activities further contributing to the value of those affiliates that inures to the benefit of BLG and, ultimately, M&T. In 2011’s final quarter the Company recognized a $79 million other-than-temporary impairment charge related to M&T’s 20% investment in BLG. While the small business commercial real estate securitization market that BLG previously operated in continues to be stagnant, its affiliated asset management operations continue to grow and its business of managing capital in the distressed real estate market is performing well. Nevertheless, in consideration of the passage of time since M&T’s original investment in BLG in 2007, the prospects of ongoing loan losses at BLG and the inability to accurately predict the timing of potential distributions to M&T, management increased its estimate of the timeframe over which the Company could reasonably anticipate recovery of the recorded investment amount and concluded that the investment was other-than-temporarily impaired. That investment was written-down to its estimated fair value of $115 million. The impairment charge of $79 million was recorded in “other costs of operations.” In determining the fair value of M&T’s investment in BLG at December 31, 2011, the Company projected no further commercial mortgage origination and securitization activities by BLG. BLG, however, is entitled to receive, if and when made, cash distributions from affiliates, a portion of which is contractually required to be distributed to M&T. Specifically, cash flows related to mortgage assets held by BLG and its affiliates were estimated using various assumptions on future default and loss severities to arrive at an expected amount of cash flow that could be available for distribution. As of December 31, 2011, the weighted-average assumption of projected default percentage on the underlying mortgage loan collateral supporting those mortgage assets was 31% and the weighted-average loss severity assumption was 75%. With respect to projected value expected to be generated by the asset management and servicing operations of BLG’s affiliates, M&T developed estimates from company-provided forecasts of financial results and through discussions with their senior management pertaining to longer-term projections of growth in assets under management and asset servicing portfolios. M&T considered different scenarios of projected cash flows that could be generated by the asset management and servicing operations of BLG’s affiliates. M&T then discounted the various projections using discount rates that ranged from 8.0% to 12.5%. Those rates were generally determined by reference to returns required by investors in similar businesses. Based on the present values of those reasonably possible cash flows, the Company concluded that its investment in BLG (which includes the right to share in distributions from affiliates if and when made) had an estimated fair value of approximately $115 million. Information about the Company’s relationship with BLG and its affiliates is included in note 25 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Other revenues from operations totaled $497 million in 2011, up 40% from $355 million in 2010. Reflected in such revenues in 2011 were the $65 million gain realized on the acquisition of Wilmington Trust and the $55 million CDO litigation settlement, while the $28 million gain on the K Bank transaction was reflected in the 2010 total. Also contributing to the improvement in other revenues from operations in  

70  

Table of Contents 

 2011 as compared with 2010 were increases in revenues from letter of credit and credit-related fees, merchant discount and credit card fees, and gains from the sale of previously leased equipment. Other revenues from operations were $325 million in 2009. Contributing to the 9% improvement from 2009 to 2010 were a $12 million rise in letter of credit and other credit-related fees and increases in merchant discount and credit card fees, underwriting and investment advisory fees, and other miscellaneous fees and revenues. Reflected in other revenues from operations in 2010 and 2009 were merger-related gains of $28 million and $29 million, respectively, related to the K Bank and Bradford transactions.  

Included in other revenues from operations were the following significant components. Letter of credit and other credit-related fees totaled $130 million, $112 million and $100 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increases in such fees from 2010 to 2011 and from 2009 to 2010 were due largely to higher income from providing letter of credit and loan syndication services. Tax-exempt income earned from bank owned life insurance aggregated $51 million in 2011, $50 million in 2010 and $49 million in 2009. Such income includes increases in cash surrender value of life insurance policies and benefits received. Revenues from merchant discount and credit card fees were $60 million in 2011, $46 million in 2010 and $40 million in 2009. The increased revenues in 2011 as compared with 2010 and in 2010 as compared with 2009 were largely attributable to higher transaction volumes related to merchant activity and usage of the Company’s credit card products. Insurance-related sales commissions and other revenues totaled $40 million in each of 2011 and 2010, and $42 million in 2009. Automated teller machine usage fees aggregated $19 million in each of 2011 and 2009, and $18 million in 2010.  

Other Expense  

Other expense aggregated $2.48 billion in 2011, compared with $1.91 billion in 2010 and $1.98 billion in 2009. Included in such amounts are expenses considered to be “nonoperating” in nature consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $62 million, $58 million and $64 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and merger-related expenses of $84 million in 2011, $771 thousand in 2010 and $89 million in 2009. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses were $2.33 billion in 2011, $1.86 billion in 2010 and $1.83 billion in 2009. The increase in such expenses in 2011 as compared with 2010 was largely the result of the impact of the operations obtained in the Wilmington Trust acquisition, the impairment charge related to BLG, higher charitable contributions and higher FDIC assessments. The increase in noninterest operating expenses in 2010 as compared with 2009 was largely attributable to higher costs for professional services, advertising and promotion, occupancy expenses related to the acquired operations of Provident, and a $22 million reduction of the allowance for impairment of capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights in 2009. There was no change to that impairment allowance for the year ended December 31, 2010. Reflected in noninterest operating expenses in 2010 was the full-year impact of the acquired operations of Provident and Bradford. Partially offsetting the higher costs in 2010 were declines in expenses related to foreclosed real estate properties and FDIC assessments.  

Salaries and employee benefits expense totaled $1.20 billion in 2011, compared with $1.00 billion in each of 2010 and 2009. The higher expense levels in 2011 as compared with 2010 were predominantly due to the operations obtained in the Wilmington Trust acquisition, but also reflect $16 million of merger-related salaries and employee benefits expenses comprised predominantly of severance for Wilmington Trust employees. When comparing 2010 with 2009, increased incentive compensation costs and the full-year impact of the 2009 acquisition transactions in 2010 were largely offset by a $10 million decline in merger- related salaries and employee benefits expenses that consisted predominantly of severance expense for Provident employees. Stock-based compensation totaled $56 million in 2011 and $54 million in each of 2010 and 2009. The number of full-time equivalent employees was 15,072 at December 31, 2011, compared with 12,802 and 13,639 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

The Company provides pension and other postretirement benefits (including a retirement savings plan) for its employees. Expenses related to such benefits totaled $86 million in 2011, $66 million in 2010 and $60 million in 2009. The Company sponsors both defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. Pension benefit expense for those plans was $53 million in 2011 (including approximately $9 million related to the Wilmington Trust acquisition), $38 million in 2010 and $32 million in 2009. Included in those amounts are $13 million in 2011, $14 million in 2010 and $11 million in 2009 for a defined contribution pension plan that the Company began on January 1, 2006. The increase in pension and other postretirement benefits expense in 2011 as compared with 2010 was predominantly due to the impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition (as noted above) and the increase in amortization of actuarial losses accumulated in the defined benefit pension plans of approximately $7 million. The determination of pension expense and the  

71  

Table of Contents 

 recognition of net pension assets and liabilities for defined benefit pension plans requires management to make various assumptions that can significantly impact the actuarial calculations related thereto. Those assumptions include the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the rate of increase in future compensation levels and the discount rate. Changes in any of those assumptions will impact the Company’s pension expense. The expected long-term rate of return assumption is determined by taking into consideration asset allocations, historical returns on the types of assets held and current economic factors. Returns on invested assets are periodically compared with target market indices for each asset type to aid management in evaluating such returns. The discount rate used by the Company to determine the present value of the Company’s future benefit obligations reflects specific market yields for a hypothetical portfolio of highly rated corporate bonds that would produce cash flows similar to the Company’s benefit plan obligations and the level of market interest rates in general as of the year-end. Other factors used to estimate the projected benefit obligations include actuarial assumptions for mortality rate, turnover rate, retirement rate and disability rate. Those other factors do not tend to change significantly over time. The Company reviews its pension plan assumptions annually to ensure that such assumptions are reasonable and adjusts those assumptions, as necessary, to reflect changes in future expectations. The Company utilizes actuaries and others to aid in that assessment.  

The Company’s 2011 pension expense for its defined benefit plans was determined using the following assumptions: a long-term rate of return on assets of 6.50%; a rate of future compensation increase of 4.50%; and a discount rate of 5.25%. To demonstrate the sensitivity of pension expense to changes in the Company’s pension plan assumptions, 25 basis point increases in: the rate of return on plan assets would have resulted in a decrease in pension expense of $2 million; the rate of increase in compensation would have resulted in an increase in pension expense of $.2 million; and the discount rate would have resulted in a decrease in pension expense of $3 million. Decreases of 25 basis points in those assumptions would have resulted in similar changes in amount, but in the opposite direction from the changes presented in the preceding sentence. The accounting guidance for defined benefit pension plans reflects the long-term nature of benefit obligations and the investment horizon of plan assets, and has the effect of reducing expense volatility related to short-term changes in interest rates and market valuations. Actuarial gains and losses include the impact of plan amendments, in addition to various gains and losses resulting from changes in assumptions and investment returns which are different from that which was assumed. As of December 31, 2011, the Company had cumulative unrecognized actuarial losses of approximately $474 million that could result in an increase in the Company’s future pension expense depending on several factors, including whether such losses at each measurement date exceed ten percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets. In accordance with GAAP, net unrecognized gains or losses that exceed that threshold are required to be amortized over the expected service period of active employees, and are included as a component of net pension cost. Amortization of these net unrealized losses had the effect of increasing the Company’s pension expense by approximately $21 million in 2011, $14 million in 2010 and $10 million in 2009.  

GAAP requires an employer to recognize in its balance sheet as an asset or liability the overfunded or underfunded status of a defined benefit postretirement plan, measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. For a pension plan, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation; for any other postretirement benefit plan, such as a retiree health care plan, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. Gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that arise during the period, but are not included as components of net periodic benefit cost, are to be recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2011, the combined benefit obligations of the Company’s defined benefit postretirement plans exceeded the fair value of the assets of such plans by approximately $469 million. Of that amount, $254 million was related to qualified defined benefit plans that are periodically funded by the Company and $215 million related to non-qualified pension and other postretirement benefit plans that are generally not funded until benefits are paid. The Company was required to have a net pension and postretirement benefit liability for those plans that was at least equal to $469 million at December 31, 2011. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2011 the Company recorded an additional postretirement benefit liability of $457 million. After applicable tax effect, that additional liability reduced accumulated other comprehensive income (and thereby shareholders’ equity) by $278 million. The result of this was a year-over-year increase of $258 million to the additional minimum postretirement benefit liability from the $199 million recorded at December 31, 2010. After applicable tax effect, the $258 million increase in the additional required liability decreased accumulated other comprehensive income in 2011 by $157 million from the prior year-end amount of $121 million. The  

72  

Table of Contents 

 $258 million increase to the liability was the result of losses that occurred during 2011 resulting from actual experience differing from actuarial assumptions and from changes in those assumptions. Those losses reflect a 100 basis point reduction in the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations of the defined benefit plans at December 31, 2011 as compared with a year earlier, in addition to actual investment returns in the qualified defined benefit pension plan that were less than expected returns. In determining the benefit obligation for defined benefit postretirement plans the Company used a discount rate of 4.25% at December 31, 2011 and 5.25% at December 31, 2010. A 25 basis point decrease in the assumed discount rate as of December 31, 2011 to 4.00% would have resulted in increases in the combined benefit obligations of all defined benefit postretirement plans (including pension and other plans) of $59 million. Under that scenario, the minimum postretirement liability adjustment at December 31, 2011 would have been $516 million, rather than the $457 million that was actually recorded, and the corresponding after tax-effect charge to accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2011 would have been $313 million, rather than the $278 million that was actually recorded. A 25 basis point increase in the assumed discount rate to 4.50% would have decreased the combined benefit obligations of all defined benefit postretirement plans by $57 million. Under this latter scenario, the aggregate minimum liability adjustment at December 31, 2011 would have been $400 million rather than the $457 million actually recorded and the corresponding after tax-effect charge to accumulated other comprehensive income would have been $243 million rather than $278 million. The Company was not required to make any contributions to its qualified defined benefit pension plan in 2011, 2010 or 2009. However, during 2011 the Company elected to make a cash contribution of $70 million and in 2009 the Company elected to contribute 900,000 shares of common stock of M&T having a then fair value of $44 million to such plan. The Company did not make any contributions to its qualified defined benefit pension plan in 2010. Information about the Company’s pension plans, including significant assumptions utilized in completing actuarial calculations for the plans, is included in note 12 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

The Company also provides a retirement savings plan (“RSP”) that is a defined contribution plan in which eligible employees of the Company may defer up to 50% of qualified compensation via contributions to the plan. The Company makes an employer matching contribution in an amount equal to 75% of an employee’s contribution, up to 4.5% of the employee’s qualified compensation. RSP expense totaled $28 million in 2011, $25 million in 2010 and $24 million in 2009. Contributing to the increase from 2010 was the impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition.  

Expenses associated with the defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans and the RSP totaled $81 million in 2011, $62 million in 2010 and $56 million in 2009. Expense associated with providing medical and other postretirement benefits was $4 million in each of 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

Excluding the nonoperating expense items already noted, nonpersonnel operating expenses totaled $1.14 billion in 2011, up 34% from $856 million in 2010. The increase in such expenses was largely attributable to the impact of the operations obtained in the Wilmington Trust acquisition, the impairment charge related to BLG, the charitable contribution and higher FDIC assessments. Nonpersonnel operating expenses were $835 million in 2009. Contributing to the increase from 2009 to 2010 were higher costs for professional services, advertising and promotion, occupancy expenses related to the full-year impact of the acquired operations of Provident, and a $22 million reduction of the allowance for impairment of capitalized residential mortgage servicing rights in 2009. There was no change in such impairment allowance in 2010. Partially offsetting the factors described above were decreased costs related to foreclosed real estate properties and FDIC assessments in 2010.  

Income Taxes  

The provision for income taxes was $365 million in 2011, compared with $357 million in 2010 and $139 million in 2009. The effective tax rates were 29.8%, 32.6% and 26.8% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective tax rate is affected by the level of income earned that is exempt from tax relative to the overall level of pre-tax income, the level of income allocated to the various state and local jurisdictions where the Company operates, because tax rates differ among such jurisdictions, and the impact of any large but infrequently occurring items. For example, the recognition of the non-taxable gain of $65 million on the Wilmington Trust acquisition served to lower the effective tax rate in 2011. Income taxes in 2011 also reflect the resolution of previously uncertain tax positions that allowed the Company to reduce its accrual for income taxes in total by $12 million. Excluding the impact of (i) the non-taxable gain of $65 million on the Wilmington Trust acquisition and (ii) the $12 million accrual reversal related to the resolution with taxing authorities of previously uncertain tax positions, the Company’s effective tax rate for 2011 would have been  

73  

Table of Contents 

 32.5%. The lower effective tax rate in 2009 was largely due to that year’s lower pre-tax income relative to the amounts of tax-exempt income and other permanent differences that impact the effective tax rate.  

The Company’s effective tax rate in future periods will be affected by the results of operations allocated to the various tax jurisdictions within which the Company operates, any change in income tax laws or regulations within those jurisdictions, and interpretations of income tax regulations that differ from the Company’s interpretations by any of various tax authorities that may examine tax returns filed by M&T or any of its subsidiaries. Information about amounts accrued for uncertain tax positions and a reconciliation of income tax expense to the amount computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to pre-tax income is provided in note 13 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

International Activities  

The Company’s net investment in international assets totaled $160 million at December 31, 2011 and $113 million at December 31, 2010. Such assets included $128 million and $107 million, respectively, of loans to foreign borrowers. Deposits in the Company’s branch in the Cayman Islands totaled $356 million at December 31, 2011 and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2010. The Company uses such deposits to facilitate customer demand and as an alternative to short-term borrowings when the costs of such deposits seem reasonable. M&T Bank opened a full-service commercial branch in Ontario, Canada during the second quarter of 2010. Loans and deposits at that branch as of December 31, 2011 were $116 million and $14 million, respectively, compared with $63 million and $4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. As a result of the Wilmington Trust acquisition, the Company offers trust-related services through its CCS business in Europe and the Cayman Islands. Revenues from providing such services during 2011 were approximately $15 million.  

Liquidity, Market Risk, and Interest Rate Sensitivity  

As a financial intermediary, the Company is exposed to various risks, including liquidity and market risk. Liquidity refers to the Company’s ability to ensure that sufficient cash flow and liquid assets are available to satisfy current and future obligations, including demands for loans and deposit withdrawals, funding operating costs, and other corporate purposes. Liquidity risk arises whenever the maturities of financial instruments included in assets and liabilities differ.  

Core deposits have historically been the most significant funding source for the Company and are generated from a large base of consumer, corporate and institutional customers. That customer base has, over the past several years, become more geographically diverse as a result of acquisitions and expansion of the Company’s businesses. Nevertheless, the Company faces competition in offering products and services from a large array of financial market participants, including banks, thrifts, mutual funds, securities dealers and others. Core deposits financed 83% of the Company’s earning assets at December 31, 2011, compared with 77% and 72% at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increases in the amount of earning assets financed by core deposits at the 2011 and 2010 year-ends as compared with December 31, 2009 reflect higher levels of core deposits, largely due to higher noninterest-bearing deposits, that have allowed the Company to reduce short-term and long-term borrowings. Additionally, as of December 31, 2010 the Company changed its definition of core deposits to include time deposits below $250,000, as already noted, to reflect a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act which permanently increased the maximum amount of FDIC insurance for financial institutions to $250,000 per depositor. That maximum had been $100,000 per depositor until 2009, when it was temporarily raised to $250,000 through 2013. The impact of including time deposits with balances of $100,000 to $250,000 added $1.0 billion to the Company’s core deposits total at December 31, 2010.  

The Company supplements funding provided through core deposits with various short-term and long-term wholesale borrowings, including federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase, brokered certificates of deposit, Cayman Islands branch deposits and borrowings from the FHLBs and others. At December 31, 2011, M&T Bank had short-term and long-term credit facilities with the FHLBs aggregating $9.0 billion. Outstanding borrowings under FHLB credit facilities totaled $1.4 billion and $2.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Such borrowings were secured by loans and investment securities. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. had available lines of credit with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that totaled approximately $10.0 billion at December 31, 2011. The amounts of those lines are dependent upon the balances of loans and securities pledged as collateral. There were no borrowings outstanding under such lines of credit at December 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010.  

74  

Table of Contents 

The Company has, from time to time, issued subordinated capital notes and junior subordinated debentures associated with preferred capital securities to provide liquidity and enhance regulatory capital ratios. Such notes qualify for inclusion in the Company’s capital as defined by Federal regulators. Information about the Company’s borrowings is included in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

The Company has informal and sometimes reciprocal sources of funding available through various arrangements for unsecured short-term borrowings from a wide group of banks and other financial institutions. Short-term federal funds borrowings were $590 million and $826 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In general, those borrowings were unsecured and matured on the next business day. As previously noted, Cayman Islands branch deposits and brokered certificates of deposit have been used by the Company as an alternative to short-term borrowings. Cayman Islands branch deposits also generally mature on the next business day and totaled $356 million and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Outstanding brokered time deposits at December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 were $1.0 billion and $485 million, respectively. Brokered time deposits assumed in the Wilmington Trust transaction aggregated $1.4 billion at the acquisition date. At December 31, 2011, the weighted-average remaining term to maturity of brokered time deposits was 12 months. Certain of these brokered deposits have provisions that allow for early redemption. The Company also has brokered NOW and brokered money-market deposit accounts which aggregated $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

The Company’s ability to obtain funding from these or other sources could be negatively impacted should the Company experience a substantial deterioration in its financial condition or its debt ratings, or should the availability of short-term funding become restricted due to a disruption in the financial markets. The Company attempts to quantify such credit-event risk by modeling scenarios that estimate the liquidity impact resulting from a short-term ratings downgrade over various grading levels. Such impact is estimated by attempting to measure the effect on available unsecured lines of credit, available capacity from secured borrowing sources and securitizable assets. Information about the credit ratings of M&T and M&T Bank is presented in table 15. Additional information regarding the terms and maturities of all of the Company’s short-term and long-term borrowings is provided in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. In addition to deposits and borrowings, other sources of liquidity include maturities of investment securities and other earning assets, repayments of loans and investment securities, and cash generated from operations, such as fees collected for services.  

Table 15  

DEBT RATINGS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Certain customers of the Company obtain financing through the issuance of variable rate demand bonds (“VRDBs”). The VRDBs are generally enhanced by letters of credit provided by M&T Bank. M&T Bank oftentimes acts as remarketing agent for the VRDBs and, at its discretion, may from time-to-time own some of the VRDBs while such instruments are remarketed. When this occurs, the VRDBs are classified as trading assets in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet. Nevertheless, M&T Bank is not contractually obligated to purchase the VRDBs. The value of VRDBs in the Company’s trading account totaled $40 million and $107 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the VRDBs outstanding backed by M&T Bank letters of credit totaled $1.9 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. M&T Bank also serves as remarketing agent for most of those bonds.  

75  

Table of Contents 

Table 16  

MATURITY DISTRIBUTION OF SELECTED LOANS(a)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) The data do not include nonaccrual loans.  

The Company enters into contractual obligations in the normal course of business which require future cash payments. The contractual amounts and timing of those payments as of December 31, 2011 are summarized in table 17. Off-balance sheet commitments to customers may impact liquidity, including commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit, commercial letters of credit, financial guarantees and indemnification contracts, and commitments to sell real estate loans. Because many of these commitments or contracts expire without being funded in whole or in part, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future cash flows. Further discussion of these commitments is provided in note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements. Table 17 summarizes the Company’s other commitments as of December 31, 2011 and the timing of the expiration of such commitments.  

76  

Table of Contents 

Table 17  

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

M&T’s primary source of funds to pay for operating expenses, shareholder dividends and treasury stock repurchases has historically been the receipt of dividends from its banking subsidiaries, which are subject to various regulatory limitations. Dividends from any banking subsidiary to M&T are limited by the amount of earnings of the banking subsidiary in the current year and the two preceding years. For purposes of the test, approximately $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011 was available for payment of dividends to M&T from banking subsidiaries. These historic sources of cash flow have been augmented in the past by the issuance of trust preferred securities and senior notes payable. Information regarding trust preferred securities and the related junior subordinated debentures are included in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements. The $300 million of 5.375% senior notes of M&T that were issued in 2007 mature in 2012. M&T also maintains a $30 million line of credit with an unaffiliated commercial bank, of which there were no borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2011. A similar $30 million line of credit was entirely available for borrowing at December 31, 2010.  

77  

Table of Contents 

Table 18  

MATURITY AND TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT YIELD OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Investment securities available for sale are presented at estimated fair value. Yields on such securities are based on amortized cost.  

 (b) Maturities are reflected based upon contractual payments due. Actual maturities are expected to be significantly shorter as a result of loan repayments in the underlying mortgage pools.  

78  

Table of Contents 

Management closely monitors the Company’s liquidity position on an ongoing basis for compliance with internal policies and believes that available sources of liquidity are adequate to meet funding needs anticipated in the normal course of business. Management does not anticipate engaging in any activities, either currently or in the long-term, for which adequate funding would not be available and would therefore result in a significant strain on liquidity at either M&T or its subsidiary banks.  

Market risk is the risk of loss from adverse changes in the market prices and/or interest rates of the Company’s financial instruments. The primary market risk the Company is exposed to is interest rate risk. Interest rate risk arises from the Company’s core banking activities of lending and deposit-taking, because assets and liabilities reprice at different times and by different amounts as interest rates change. As a result, net interest income earned by the Company is subject to the effects of changing interest rates. The Company measures interest rate risk by calculating the variability of net interest income in future periods under various interest rate scenarios using projected balances for earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives used to hedge interest rate risk. Management’s philosophy toward interest rate risk management is to limit the variability of net interest income. The balances of financial instruments used in the projections are based on expected growth from forecasted business opportunities, anticipated prepayments of loans and investment securities, and expected maturities of investment securities, loans and deposits. Management uses a “value of equity” model to supplement the modeling technique described above. Those supplemental analyses are based on discounted cash flows associated with on- and off-balance sheet financial instruments. Such analyses are modeled to reflect changes in interest rates and provide management with a long-term interest rate risk metric. The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements to help manage exposure to interest rate risk. At December 31, 2011, the aggregate notional amount of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes was $900 million. Information about interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes is included herein under the heading “Net Interest Income/Lending and Funding Activities” and in note 18 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Table 19  

MATURITY OF DOMESTIC CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT AND TIME DEPOSITS  

WITH BALANCES OF $100,000 OR MORE  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company’s Risk Management Committee, which includes members of senior management, monitors the sensitivity of the Company’s net interest income to changes in interest rates with the aid of a computer model that forecasts net interest income under different interest rate scenarios. In modeling changing interest rates, the Company considers different yield curve shapes that consider both parallel (that is, simultaneous changes in interest rates at each point on the yield curve) and non-parallel (that is, allowing interest rates at points on the yield curve to vary by different amounts) shifts in the yield curve. In utilizing the model, market implied forward interest rates over the subsequent twelve months are generally used to determine a base interest rate scenario for the net interest income simulation. That calculated base net interest income is then compared to the income calculated under the varying interest rate scenarios. The model considers the impact of ongoing lending and deposit-gathering activities, as well as interrelationships in the magnitude and timing of the repricing of financial instruments, including the effect of changing interest rates on expected prepayments and maturities. When deemed prudent, management has taken actions to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk through the use of on- or off-balance sheet financial instruments and intends to do so in the future. Possible actions include, but are not limited to, changes in the pricing of loan and deposit products, modifying the composition of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and adding to, modifying or terminating existing interest rate swap agreements or other financial instruments used for interest rate risk management purposes.  

79  

Table of Contents 

Table 20 displays as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 the estimated impact on net interest income from non-trading financial instruments in the base scenario described above resulting from parallel changes in interest rates across repricing categories during the first modeling year.  

Table 20  

SENSITIVITY OF NET INTEREST INCOME TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company utilized many assumptions to calculate the impact that changes in interest rates may have on net interest income. The more significant of those assumptions included the rate of prepayments of mortgage-related assets, cash flows from derivative and other financial instruments held for non-trading purposes, loan and deposit volumes and pricing, and deposit maturities. In the scenarios presented, the Company also assumed gradual changes in rates during a twelve-month period of 100 and 200 basis points, as compared with the assumed base scenario. In the event that a 100 or 200 basis point rate change cannot be achieved, the applicable rate changes are limited to lesser amounts such that interest rates cannot be less than zero. The assumptions used in interest rate sensitivity modeling are inherently uncertain and, as a result, the Company cannot precisely predict the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income. Actual results may differ significantly from those presented due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of changes in interest rates and changes in market conditions and interest rate differentials (spreads) between maturity/repricing categories, as well as any actions, such as those previously described, which management may take to counter such changes. The changes to projected net interest income resulting from rising interest rates at December 31, 2011 as compared with December 31, 2010 were predominantly due to the acquisition of Wilmington Trust. The most significant of those changes related to the rising interest rate scenarios and were largely due to the addition of variable rate commercial loans and commercial real estate loans that had been funded by Wilmington Trust using core deposits and fixed rate brokered time deposits. In light of the uncertainties and assumptions associated with the process, the amounts presented in the table are not considered significant to the Company’s past or projected net interest income.  

Table 21 presents cumulative totals of net assets (liabilities) repricing on a contractual basis within the specified time frames, as adjusted for the impact of interest rate swap agreements entered into for interest rate risk management purposes. Management believes that this measure does not appropriately depict interest rate risk since changes in interest rates do not necessarily affect all categories of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities equally nor, as assumed in the table, on the contractual maturity or repricing date. Furthermore, this static presentation of interest rate risk fails to consider the effect of ongoing lending and deposit gathering activities, projected changes in balance sheet composition or any subsequent interest rate risk management activities the Company is likely to implement.  

80  

Table of Contents 

Table 21  

CONTRACTUAL REPRICING DATA  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Changes in fair value of the Company’s financial instruments can also result from a lack of trading activity for similar instruments in the financial markets. That impact is most notable on the values assigned to the Company’s investment securities. Information about the fair valuation of such securities is presented herein under the heading “Capital” and in notes 3 and 20 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

The Company engages in trading activities to meet the financial needs of customers, to fund the Company’s obligations under certain deferred compensation plans and, to a limited extent, to profit from perceived market opportunities. Financial instruments utilized in trading activities consist predominantly of interest rate contracts, such as swap agreements, and forward and futures contracts related to foreign currencies, but have also included forward and futures contracts related to mortgage-backed securities and investments in U.S. Treasury and other government securities, mortgage-backed securities and mutual funds and, as previously described, a limited number of VRDBs. The Company generally mitigates the foreign currency and interest rate risk associated with trading activities by entering into offsetting trading positions. The fair values of the offsetting trading positions associated with interest rate contracts and foreign currency and other option and futures contracts is presented in note 18 of Notes to Financial Statements. The amounts of gross and net trading positions, as well as the type of trading activities conducted by the Company, are subject to a well-defined series of potential loss exposure limits established by management and approved by M&T’s Board of Directors. However, as with any non-government guaranteed financial instrument, the Company is exposed to credit risk associated with counterparties to the Company’s trading activities.  

81  

Table of Contents 

The notional amounts of interest rate contracts entered into for trading purposes aggregated $13.9 billion at December 31, 2011 and $12.8 billion at December 31, 2010. The notional amounts of foreign currency and other option and futures contracts entered into for trading purposes totaled $1.4 billion and $769 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Although the notional amounts of these trading contracts are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, the fair values of all financial instruments used for trading activities are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. The fair values of trading account assets and liabilities were $562 million and $435 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011 and $524 million and $333 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Included in trading account assets at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $34 million and $35 million, respectively, of assets related to deferred compensation plans. Changes in the fair value of such assets are recorded as “trading account and foreign exchange gains” in the consolidated statement of income. Included in “other liabilities” in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $32 million and $36 million, respectively, of liabilities related to deferred compensation plans. Changes in the balances of such liabilities due to the valuation of allocated investment options to which the liabilities are indexed are recorded in “other costs of operations” in the consolidated statement of income.  

Given the Company’s policies, limits and positions, management believes that the potential loss exposure to the Company resulting from market risk associated with trading activities was not material, however, as previously noted, the Company is exposed to credit risk associated with counterparties to transactions associated with the Company’s trading activities. Additional information about the Company’s use of derivative financial instruments in its trading activities is included in note 18 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Capital  

Shareholders’ equity was $9.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and represented 11.90% of total assets, compared with $8.4 billion or 12.29% at December 31, 2010 and $7.8 billion or 11.26% at December 31, 2009.  

Included in shareholders’ equity was preferred stock with financial statement carrying values of $865 million at December 31, 2011 and $741 million at December 31, 2010. That preferred stock balance included $365 million and $714 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, for Series A and Series C Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of the Troubled Asset Relief Program — Capital Purchase Program. The redemption value of such preferred stock was $381.5 million and $751.5 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Series A preferred stock and warrants to issue M&T common stock were issued in 2008 for $600 million. During the second quarter of 2011, M&T redeemed $370 million of the Series A preferred stock. The financial statement value of the outstanding Series A preferred stock was $224 million at December 31, 2011 and $579 million at December 31, 2010. The Series C preferred stock represents a $151.5 million issuance to the U.S. Treasury by Provident that was converted into M&T preferred stock and warrants to purchase M&T common stock upon M&T’s acquisition of Provident on May 23, 2009. The financial statement carrying value of the Series C preferred stock was $140 million at December 31, 2011 and $135 million at December 31, 2010. The Series A and Series C preferred stock pay quarterly cumulative cash dividends of 5% per annum for five years after the initial 2008 issuance dates and 9% per annum thereafter. That preferred stock is redeemable at the option of M&T, subject to regulatory approval. M&T also obtained another series of preferred stock as part of the Provident acquisition that was converted to $26.5 million of M&T Series B Mandatory Convertible Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. The Series B preferred stock paid quarterly dividends at a rate of 10% per annum. In accordance with their terms, on April 1, 2011, the 26,500 shares of the Series B preferred stock converted into 433,144 shares of M&T common stock. Further information concerning M&T’s preferred stock can be found in note 10 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

On May 31, 2011, M&T issued 50,000 shares of a new series of Perpetual 6.875% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, par value $1.00 per share and liquidation preference of $10,000 per share in order to supplement Tier 1 Capital. Holders of Series D preferred stock are entitled to receive, only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors, non-cumulative cash dividends at an annual rate of 6.875%, payable semi-annually in arrears. The Series D preferred stock is redeemable on or after June 15, 2016 in whole or in part at par plus any declared but unpaid dividends. Notwithstanding the redemption provisions noted and subject to regulatory approval, M&T may redeem all of the outstanding shares of Series D preferred stock if a regulatory capital treatment event takes place whereby the full liquidation value of the shares no longer qualifies as Tier 1 Capital.  

82  

Table of Contents 

Common shareholders’ equity was $8.4 billion, or $66.82 per share, at December 31, 2011, compared with $7.6 billion, or $63.54 per share, at December 31, 2010 and $7.0 billion, or $59.31 per share, at December 31, 2009. Tangible equity per common share, which excludes goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and applicable deferred tax balances, was $37.79 at December 31, 2011, compared with $33.26 and $28.27 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The Company’s ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets was 6.40% at December 31, 2011, compared with 6.19% and 5.13% at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Reconciliations of total common shareholders’ equity and tangible common equity and total assets and tangible assets as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 are presented in table 2. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the ratio of average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets was 12.17%, 11.85% and 10.79%, respectively. The ratio of average common shareholders’ equity to average total assets was 11.09%, 10.77% and 9.81% in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Shareholders’ equity reflects accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, which includes the net after-tax impact of unrealized gains or losses on investment securities classified as available for sale, unrealized losses on held-to-maturity securities for which an other-than-temporary impairment charge has been recognized, gains or losses associated with interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges, foreign currency translation adjustments and adjustments to reflect the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans. Net unrealized losses on available-for-sale investment securities, net of applicable tax effect, were $78 million, or $.62 per common share, at December 31, 2011, compared with net unrealized losses of $85 million, or $.71 per common share, at December 31, 2010, and $220 million, or $1.86 per common share, at December 31, 2009. Such unrealized losses represent the difference, net of applicable income tax effect, between the estimated fair value and amortized cost of investment securities classified as available for sale, including the remaining unamortized unrealized losses on investment securities that have been transferred to held-to-maturity classification. Information about unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is included in note 3 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Reflected in net unrealized losses at December 31, 2011 were pre tax-effect unrealized losses of $294 million on available-for-sale investment securities with an amortized cost of $1.6 billion and pre-tax effect unrealized gains of $210 million on securities with an amortized cost of $4.7 billion. The pre-tax effect unrealized losses reflect $239 million of losses on privately issued mortgage-backed securities with an amortized cost of $1.3 billion and an estimated fair value of $1.0 billion (considered Level 3 valuations) and $44 million of losses on trust preferred securities issued by financial institutions having an amortized cost of $189 million and an estimated fair value of $145 million (generally considered Level 2 valuations).  

The Company’s privately issued residential mortgage-backed securities classified as available for sale are generally collateralized by prime and Alt-A residential mortgage loans as depicted in table 22. Information in the table is as of December 31, 2011. As with any accounting estimate or other data, changes in fair values and investment ratings may occur at any time.  

83  

Table of Contents 

Table 22  

PRIVATELY ISSUED MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES CLASSIFIED AS AVAILABLE FOR SALE (a)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) All information is as of December 31, 2011.  

 (b) Weighted-average credit enhancement is calculated by dividing the remaining unpaid principal balance of bonds subordinate to the bonds owned by the Company plus any overcollateralization remaining in the securitization structure by the remaining unpaid principal balance of all bonds in the securitization structure.  

 (c) Represents percentage of amortized cost related to bonds for which the full amount of all contractually required principal and interest payments expected at acquisition continue to be received.  

84  

Table of Contents 

Reflecting the credit stress associated with residential mortgage loans, trading activity for privately issued mortgage-backed securities has been dramatically reduced. In estimating values for such securities, the Company was significantly restricted in the level of market observable assumptions used in the valuation of its privately issued mortgage-backed securities portfolio. Because of the reduced activity and lack of observable valuation inputs, the Company considers the estimated fair value associated with its holdings of privately issued mortgage-backed securities to be Level 3 valuations. To assist in the determination of fair value for its privately issued mortgage-backed securities, the Company engaged two independent pricing sources at December 31, 2011 and 2010. GAAP provides guidance for estimating fair value when the volume and level of trading activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased. In consideration of that guidance, the Company performed internal modeling to estimate the cash flows and fair value of privately issued residential mortgage-backed securities with an amortized cost basis of $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011 and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. The Company’s internal modeling techniques included discounting estimated bond-specific cash flows using assumptions about cash flows associated with loans underlying each of the bonds. In estimating those cash flows, the Company used conservative assumptions as to future delinquency, default and loss rates in order to mitigate exposure that might be attributable to the risk that actual future credit losses could exceed assumed credit losses. Differences between internal model valuations and external pricing indications were generally considered to be reflective of the lack of liquidity in the market for privately issued mortgage-backed securities. To determine the most representative fair value for those bonds under current market conditions, the Company computed values based on judgmentally applied weightings of the internal model valuations and the indications obtained from the average of the two independent pricing sources. The average weight placed on internal model valuations at December 31, 2011 was 34%, compared with a 66% weighting on valuations provided by the independent sources. Further information concerning the Company’s valuations of privately issued mortgage-backed securities can be found in note 20 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

During 2011 the Company recognized $77 million (pre-tax) of other-than-temporary impairment losses including $65 million related to privately issued residential mortgage-backed securities and $12 million related to commercial mortgage-backed CMOs. In assessing impairment losses for debt securities, the Company performed internal modeling to estimate bond-specific cash flows, which considered the placement of the bond in the overall securitization structure and the remaining levels of subordination.  

For privately issued residential mortgage-backed securities, the model utilized assumptions about the underlying performance of the mortgage loan collateral considering recent collateral performance and future assumptions regarding default and loss severity. At December 31, 2011, projected model default percentages on the underlying mortgage loan collateral ranged from 2% to 36% and loss severities ranged from 27% to 78%. For bonds in which the Company has recognized an other-than-temporary impairment charge, the weighted-average percentage of default collateral was 23% and the weighted-average loss severity was 51%. For bonds without other-than-temporary impairment losses, the weighted-average default percentage and loss severity were 12% and 41%, respectively. Underlying mortgage loan collateral cash flows, after considering the impact of estimated credit losses, were distributed by the model to the various securities within the securitization structure to determine the timing and extent of losses at the bond-level, if any. Despite continuing high levels of delinquencies and losses in the underlying residential mortgage loan collateral, given credit enhancements resulting from the structures of individual bonds, the Company has concluded that as of December 31, 2011 its remaining privately issued mortgage-backed securities were not other-than-temporarily impaired. Nevertheless, given recent market conditions, it is possible that adverse changes in repayment performance and fair value could occur in 2012 and later years that could impact the Company’s conclusions. For example, a 10% increase in the estimated default rate assumption and a 10% increase in the severity rate assumption would have increased the other-than-temporary impairment charge recognized by the Company for the year ended December 31, 2011 by $36 million. Management has modeled cash flows from privately issued mortgage-backed securities under various scenarios and has concluded that even if home price depreciation and current delinquency trends persist for an extended period of time, the Company’s principal losses on its privately issued mortgage-backed securities would be substantially less than their current fair valuation losses. Information comparing the amortized cost and fair value of investment securities is included in note 3 of Notes to Financial Statements. The Company’s model as described above uses projected default and loss severity assumptions. Information on the current credit enhancement and current payment status of privately issued mortgage-backed securities at December 31, 2011 is included in table 22.  

85  

Table of Contents 

Similar to its evaluation of available-for-sale privately issued mortgage-backed securities, the Company assessed impairment losses on privately issued CMOs in the held-to-maturity portfolio by performing internal modeling to estimate bond-specific cash flows, which considered the placement of the bond in the overall securitization structure and the remaining subordination levels. As a result of its assessment, the Company recognized $12 million of other-than-temporary impairment losses related to privately issued CMOs in the held-to-maturity portfolio during 2011. In total, at December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had in its held-to-maturity portfolio privately issued CMOs with an amortized cost basis of $269 million and $313 million, respectively, and a fair value of $170 million and $198 million, respectively.  

At December 31, 2011, the Company also had net pre-tax unrealized losses of $31 million on $229 million of trust preferred securities issued by financial institutions, securities backed by trust preferred securities, and other debt securities (reflecting $9 million of unrealized gains on $52 million of securities using a Level 3 valuation). Net pre-tax unrealized gains of $5 million existed on $410 million of such securities at December 31, 2010. After evaluating the expected repayment performance of those bonds the Company did not recognize any other-than-temporary impairment losses related to those securities during 2011.  

As previously described, during 2010 the Company recognized $86 million (pre-tax) of other-than-temporary losses, including $63 million related to privately issued residential mortgage-backed securities, $6 million related to securities backed largely by trust preferred securities issued by financial institutions, $5 million related to commercial mortgage-backed CMOs and $12 million related to AIB ADSs. During 2009 the Company recognized $138 million (pre-tax) of other-than-temporary losses, including $128 million of which related to privately issued mortgage-backed securities and $10 million related to securities backed largely by trust preferred securities issued by financial institutions.  

As of December 31, 2011, based on a review of each of the remaining securities in the investment securities portfolio, the Company concluded that the declines in the values of those securities were temporary and that any additional other-than-temporary impairment charges were not appropriate. As of that date, the Company did not intend to sell nor is it anticipated that it would be required to sell any of its impaired securities, that is, where fair value is less than the cost basis of the security. The Company intends to continue to closely monitor the performance of the privately issued mortgage-backed securities and other securities because changes in their underlying credit performance or other events could cause the cost basis of those securities to become other-than-temporarily impaired. However, because the unrealized losses on available-for-sale investment securities have generally already been reflected in the financial statement values for investment securities and shareholders’ equity, any recognition of an other-than-temporary decline in value of those investment securities would not have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition. Any additional other-than-temporary impairment charge related to held-to-maturity securities would result in reductions in the financial statement values for investment securities and shareholders’ equity. Additional information concerning fair value measurements and the Company’s approach to the classification of such measurements is included in note 20 of the Notes to Financial Statements.  

Adjustments to reflect the funded status of defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, net of applicable tax effect, reduced accumulated other comprehensive income by $278 million, or $2.21 per common share, at December 31, 2011, $121 million, or $1.01 per common share, at December 31, 2010, and $117 million, or $.99 per common share, at December 31, 2009. The increase in such adjustment at December 31, 2011 as compared with December 31, 2010 was predominantly the result of a 100 basis point reduction in the discount rate used to measure the benefit obligations of the defined benefit plans at December 31, 2011 as compared with a year earlier and actual investment returns in the qualified defined benefit pension plan that were less than expected returns. Information about the funded status of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans is included in note 12 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Cash dividends declared on M&T’s common stock totaled $350 million in 2011, compared with $336 million and $327 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Dividends per common share totaled $2.80 in each of 2011, 2010 and 2009. During 2011, cash dividends of $28 million, or $50.00 per share, were declared and paid to the U.S. Treasury on M&T’s Series A ($20 million) and Series C ($8 million) Preferred Stock. Similar dividends of $38 million and $31 million were declared and paid in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash dividends of $1 million, $3 million and $1 million ($41.67 per share, $100.00 per share and $50.00 per share) were declared and paid during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on M&T’s Series B Preferred Stock. Cash dividends of $19 million ($372.40 share) were declared and paid during 2011 on M&T’s Series D Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock.  

86  

Table of Contents 

The Company did not repurchase any of its common stock in 2011, 2010 or 2009.  

Federal regulators generally require banking institutions to maintain “Tier 1 capital” and “total capital” ratios of at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of risk-adjusted total assets. In addition to the risk-based measures, Federal bank regulators have also implemented a minimum “leverage” ratio guideline of 3% of the quarterly average of total assets. At December 31, 2011, Tier 1 capital included $1.1 billion of trust preferred securities as described in note 9 of Notes to Financial Statements and total capital further included $1.7 billion of subordinated capital notes. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be phased-out of the definition of Tier 1 capital of bank holding companies. The capital ratios of the Company and its banking subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 are presented in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

Fourth Quarter Results  

Net income during the fourth quarter of 2011 declined 28% to $148 million from $204 million in the year-earlier quarter. Diluted and basic earnings per common share were each $1.04 in the final 2011 quarter, 35% below $1.59 of diluted and basic earnings per common share in the corresponding quarter of 2010. On an annualized basis, the rates of return on average assets and average common shareholders’ equity for the recently completed quarter were .75% and 6.12%, respectively, compared with 1.18% and 10.03%, respectively, in the fourth quarter of 2010.  

Net operating income totaled $168 million in the recent quarter, compared with $196 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Diluted net operating earnings per common share were $1.20 in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with $1.52 in the year-earlier quarter. The annualized net operating returns on average tangible assets and average tangible common equity in the final quarter of 2011 were .89% and 12.36%, respectively, compared with 1.20% and 18.43%, respectively, in the corresponding quarter of 2010. Core deposit and other intangible asset amortization, after tax effect, totaled $10 million and $8 million in the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010 ($.08 and $.07 per diluted common share), respectively. The after-tax impact of merger-related expenses associated with the Wilmington Trust acquisition was $10 million ($16 million pre-tax) or $.08 of diluted earnings per common share in the fourth quarter of 2011. The after-tax impact of merger-related expenses and the gain associated with the K Bank acquisition transaction totaled to a net gain of $16 million ($27 million pre-tax) or $.14 of diluted earnings per common share in the last quarter of 2010. Reconciliations of GAAP results with non-GAAP results for the quarterly periods of 2011 and 2010 are provided in table 24.  

Taxable-equivalent net interest income rose 8% to $625 million in the recent quarter from $580 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. That growth reflects a 15% increase in average earning assets partially offset by a 25 basis point narrowing of the Company’s net interest margin. Average earning assets in the fourth quarter of 2011 totaled $68.8 billion, up from $59.7 billion in the year-earlier quarter. That growth resulted from higher average loans and leases, which rose 16% to $59.1 billion in the recent quarter from $51.1 billion in 2010’s final quarter, and higher interest-bearing deposits at banks, predominantly balances held at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Average commercial loan and lease balances were $15.4 billion in the recent quarter, up $2.4 billion or 18% from $13.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010. Commercial real estate loans averaged $24.1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011, up $3.5 billion from $20.6 billion in the year-earlier quarter. Average residential real estate loans outstanding rose 27% or $1.6 billion to $7.5 billion in the recent quarter from $5.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2010. Included in the residential real estate loan portfolio were loans held for sale, which averaged $233 million and $556 million in the fourth quarters of 2011 and 2010, respectively. Consumer loans averaged $12.1 billion in the recent quarter, up $503 million, or 4%, from $11.6 billion in the final 2010 quarter. The most significant factor for the growth in average loans outstanding in the recent quarter as compared with the fourth quarter of 2010 was the Wilmington Trust acquisition. Loans associated with Wilmington Trust totaled $6.4 billion on the May 16, 2011 acquisition date, consisting of approximately $1.4 billion of commercial loans and leases, $3.2 billion of commercial real estate loans, $680 million of residential real estate loans and $1.1 billion of consumer loans. Also contributing to the rise in average residential real estate loans was the impact of the Company retaining for portfolio a large portion of loans originated since October 1, 2010. Total loans increased $1.7 billion to $60.1 billion at December 31, 2011 from $58.4 billion at September 30, 2011. That growth was largely attributable to increases in commercial loans, commercial real estate loans and residential real estate loans. The yield on earning assets declined to 4.17% in the fourth quarter of 2011 from 4.58% in the year-earlier quarter. The rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities declined 15 basis points to .82% in the recently completed quarter from .97% in the similar 2010 quarter. The resulting net interest  

87  

Table of Contents 

 spread was 3.35% in the fourth quarter of 2011, down 26 basis points from 3.61% in the final quarter of 2010. That decline was largely due to lower interest rates earned on loans and investment securities. The contribution of net interest-free funds to the Company’s net interest margin was .25% in the recent quarter, compared with .24% in the year-earlier quarter. As a result, the Company’s net interest margin narrowed to 3.60% in the final 2011 quarter from 3.85% in the corresponding 2010 quarter.  

The provision for credit losses was $74 million in the three-month period ended December 31, 2011, compared with $85 million in the year-earlier period. Net charge-offs of loans were $74 million in the final quarter of 2011, representing an annualized .50% of average loans and leases outstanding, compared with $77 million or .60% during the fourth quarter of 2010. Net charge-offs included: residential real estate loans of $13 million in the recently completed quarter, compared with $15 million a year earlier; loans to builders and developers of residential real estate properties of $25 million, compared with $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2010; other commercial real estate loans of $2 million, compared with $13 million a year earlier; commercial loans of $11 million, compared with $5 million in 2010; and consumer loans of $23 million, compared with $22 million in the prior year’s fourth quarter.  

Other income aggregated $398 million in the recent quarter, up 39% from $287 million in the year-earlier quarter. Net losses on investment securities (including other-than-temporary impairment charges) were $25 million during the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with $27 million in the year-earlier quarter. The losses were predominantly due to other-than-temporary impairment charges related to certain of the Company’s privately issued mortgage-backed securities. Other income in the fourth quarter of 2011 included the $55 million litigation settlement related to the Company’s purchase of certain CDOs during 2007. Reflected in other income for the fourth quarter of 2010 was the $28 million gain recorded on the K Bank acquisition transaction. Excluding net losses on investment securities, the CDO litigation settlement and the merger-related gain from the respective quarters, other income was $368 million during 2011’s fourth quarter, up 29% from $286 million in the year-earlier quarter. The most significant contributor to the rise in other income was higher trust income of $83 million, which was the result of the Wilmington Trust acquisition. Also contributing to the improvement were higher residential mortgage banking revenues, due to increased servicing fees, and merchant discount and credit card fees. Those positive factors were partially offset by declines in fees for providing consumer deposit account services, resulting from the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, and trading account and foreign exchange gains.  

Other expense in the fourth quarter of 2011 totaled $740 million, compared with $469 million in the year-earlier quarter. Included in such amounts are expenses considered to be “nonoperating” in nature consisting of amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets of $17 million and $13 million in the final quarters of 2011 and 2010, respectively, and merger-related expenses of $16 million and $771 thousand in the three-month periods ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Exclusive of those nonoperating expenses, noninterest operating expenses were $706 million in the fourth quarter of 2011, compared with $455 million in the year-earlier quarter. The most significant factors for the higher level of operating expenses in the recent quarter as compared with the fourth quarter of 2010 were the impact of the operations obtained in the May 16, 2011 Wilmington Trust acquisition, the previously noted $79 million impairment charge related to BLG, the $30 million charitable contribution and an increase in FDIC assessments that was largely attributable to a regulatory mandated change in the assessment methodology. The Company’s efficiency ratio during the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010 was 67.4% and 52.5%, respectively. Table 24 includes a reconciliation of other expense to noninterest operating expense and the calculation of the efficiency ratio for each of the quarters of 2011 and 2010.  

Segment Information  

In accordance with GAAP, the Company’s reportable segments have been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of customer, and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The reportable segments are Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking.  

The financial information of the Company’s segments was compiled utilizing the accounting policies described in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements. The management accounting policies and processes utilized in compiling segment financial information are highly subjective and, unlike financial accounting, are not based on authoritative guidance similar to GAAP. As a result, reported segments and the financial information of the reported segments are not necessarily comparable with similar information reported by  

88  

Table of Contents 

 other financial institutions. Furthermore, changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures may result in changes in reported segment financial data. Financial information about the Company’s segments is presented in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

The Business Banking segment provides a wide range of services to small businesses and professionals through the Company’s branch network, business banking centers and other delivery channels such as telephone banking, Internet banking and automated teller machines within markets served by the Company. Services and products offered by this segment include various business loans and leases, including loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration, business credit cards, deposit products, and financial services such as cash management, payroll and direct deposit, merchant credit card and letters of credit. Net income for the Business Banking segment improved 24% to $123 million in 2011 from $99 million in 2010. That increase reflects a $29 million decline in the provision for credit losses, the result of lower net charge-offs of loans, and higher net interest income of $19 million that resulted from increases of $1.1 billion and $358 million in the average balances of deposits and loans, respectively, including the impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition. The effect of higher average balances was offset, in part, by a 39 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits. Net income contributed by the Business Banking segment totaled $124 million in 2009. The 21% decline in net income in 2010 as compared with 2009 was predominantly due to a $33 million increase in the provision for credit losses, the result of increased net charge-offs of loans.  

The Commercial Banking segment provides a wide range of credit products and banking services for middle-market and large commercial customers, mainly within the markets served by the Company. Services provided by this segment include commercial lending and leasing, letters of credit, deposit products, and cash management services. The Commercial Banking segment earned $369 million in 2011, up 18% from $314 million in 2010. The increase in net income in 2011 as compared with 2010 reflects a $73 million rise in net interest income largely due to higher average loan and deposit balances of $2.2 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, (including the impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition) partially offset by a 19 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposit balances. Also contributing to the higher net income were an $18 million decline in the provision for credit losses, the result of lower net charge-offs of loans, and higher credit-related fees of $15 million, including fees earned for providing loan syndication services. Partially offsetting those favorable factors were increased personnel costs of $8 million and higher FDIC assessments of $6 million. Net income for the Commercial Banking segment totaled $239 million in 2009. The 31% increase in net income in 2010 as compared with 2009 was due to a $60 million reduction in the provision for credit losses, the result of lower net loan charge-offs, as well as a $51 million rise in net interest income, due to a $2.0 billion increase in average deposit balances and a 26 basis point widening of the net interest margin on loans.  

The Commercial Real Estate segment provides credit and deposit services to its customers. Real estate securing loans in this segment is generally located in the New York City metropolitan area, upstate New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, the District of Columbia, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia, and the northwestern portion of the United States. Commercial real estate loans may be secured by apartment/multifamily buildings; office, retail and industrial space; or other types of collateral. Activities of this segment also include the origination, sales and servicing of commercial real estate loans through the Fannie Mae DUS program and other programs. Net income for the Commercial Real Estate segment improved 18% to $240 million in 2011 from $203 million in 2010. That increase reflects a higher net interest income of $84 million, due to increases of $1.8 billion and $488 million of average loan and deposit balances, respectively, (including the impact of the Wilmington Trust acquisition) and a 22 basis point widening of the net interest margin on loans, as well as a $16 million decline in net foreclosure-related expenses. Partially offsetting those favorable factors were higher FDIC assessments of $23 million, a $13 million increase in the provision for credit losses, the result of higher net charge-offs of loans, and increased personnel costs of $8 million. Net income for the Commercial Real Estate segment in 2010 rose 31% from $155 million in 2009. That improvement can be attributed to the following factors: a $39 million decline in the provision for credit losses, the result of lower net charge-offs of loans; a $38 million increase in net interest income; and higher revenues from mortgage banking activities of $13 million, the result of increased loan origination and sales activities. The rise in net interest income was attributable to a 28 basis point expansion of the net interest margin on loans and increases in average deposit and loan balances of $430 million and $249 million, respectively, partially offset by a 57 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits.  

The Discretionary Portfolio segment includes investment and trading securities, residential mortgage loans and other assets; short-term and long-term borrowed funds; brokered certificates of deposit and  

89  

Table of Contents 

 interest rate swap agreements related thereto; and Cayman Islands branch deposits. This segment also provides foreign exchange services to customers. Included in the assets of the Discretionary Portfolio segment are most of the investment securities for which the Company has recognized other-than-temporary impairment charges in each of the last three years and the portfolio of Alt-A mortgage loans. Net income for the Discretionary Portfolio segment totaled $59 million in 2011, compared with net losses of $39 million and $28 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. Included in this segment’s recent year results were $149 million of net realized gains on the sale of investment securities, predominantly comprised of residential mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, CDOs and trust preferred securities. Partially offsetting those realized gains were other-than-temporary impairment charges of $77 million related to privately issued CMOs. Similar impairment charges of $74 million in 2010 and $138 million in 2009 were predominantly related to privately issued CMOs. Excluding securities gains and losses, net income for the segment totaled $16 million in 2011, $5 million in 2010 and $53 million in 2009. The favorable performance in 2011 as compared with 2010 can be attributed to a $40 million rise in net interest income, mainly due to a 39 basis point expansion of the net interest margin on investment securities, offset, in part, by a $12 million increase in intersegment costs related to a higher proportion of residential real estate loans being retained for portfolio in 2011. The decline in 2010 from the year prior reflects a $114 million decrease in net interest income, resulting from a 42 basis point narrowing of this segment’s net interest margin, partially offset by a decline in the provision for credit losses of $27 million, the result of lower net charge-offs of loans.  

The Residential Mortgage Banking segment originates and services residential mortgage loans and sells substantially all of those loans in the secondary market to investors or to the Discretionary Portfolio segment. This segment also originated loans to developers of residential real estate properties, although that origination activity has been significantly curtailed. In addition to the geographic regions served by or contiguous with the Company’s branch network, the Company maintains mortgage loan origination offices in several states throughout the western United States. The Company also periodically purchases the rights to service mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans held for sale are included in this segment. The Residential Mortgage Banking segment recorded net income of $13 million in 2011, up 18% from $11 million in 2010. That increase reflects a $13 million decline in the provision for credit losses, the result of lower net charge-offs of loans, partially offset by an $8 million decline in net interest income, the result of a $181 million decrease in average loan balances. The Residential Mortgage Banking segment incurred a net loss of $13 million in 2009. The improvement in this segment’s results in 2010 as compared with 2009 was attributable to: a $49 million decline in the provision for credit losses, the result of lower net charge-offs of loans to builders and developers of residential real estate; decreased foreclosure-related expenses of $20 million, the result of declining values on certain previously foreclosed-upon residential real estate development projects in 2009; and lower personnel-related expenses of $8 million. Those favorable factors were partially offset by a $16 million partial reversal of the capitalized mortgage servicing rights valuation allowance in 2009 (as compared with no change in such allowance in 2010) and a $19 million decline in revenues relating to residential mortgage origination and sales activities, reflecting lower origination volumes and increased settlements related to the Company’s obligation to repurchase previously sold loans.  

The Retail Banking segment offers a variety of services to consumers through several delivery channels which include branch offices, automated teller machines, telephone banking and Internet banking. The Company has branch offices in New York State, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, the District of Columbia, West Virginia and Delaware. The Retail Banking segment also offers certain deposit products on a nationwide basis through the delivery channels of Wilmington Trust, N.A. Credit services offered by this segment include consumer installment loans, automobile loans (originated both directly and indirectly through dealers), home equity loans and lines of credit and credit cards. The segment also offers to its customers deposit products, including demand, savings and time accounts; investment products, including mutual funds and annuities; and other services. The Retail Banking segment’s net income declined 11% to $200 million in 2011 from $225 million in 2010. The most significant factors contributing to the decline were lower fees earned for providing deposit account services of $25 million (reflecting the previously described regulatory changes in 2010 and 2011 offset, in part, by fees of $13 million from deposits associated with the Wilmington Trust acquisition), higher personnel-related costs of $20 million (also reflecting the Wilmington Trust acquisition), and increased other noninterest expenses totaling $15 million (including higher credit card, merchant costs and transaction processing-related costs, each due, in part, to the Wilmington Trust acquisition), partially offset by net interest income related to the Wilmington Trust acquisition. Net income earned by this segment declined 5% in 2010 from $237 million in 2009. That  

90  

Table of Contents 

 decline reflects a $39 million decrease in net interest income, the result of a 25 basis point narrowing of the net interest margin on deposits, and an increase in net occupancy expenses of $8 million. Partially offsetting those unfavorable factors were a $21 million decline in the provision for credit losses, reflecting lower net charge-off of loans, reduced FDIC assessments of $7 million, and higher fees earned for providing deposit account services of $5 million.  

The “All Other” category reflects other activities of the Company that are not directly attributable to the reported segments. Reflected in this category are the amortization of core deposit and other intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions of financial institutions, M&T’s share of the operating losses of BLG, merger-related gains and expenses resulting from acquisitions and the net impact of the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with the earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments and the provision for credit losses. The “All Other” category also includes the CCS and WAS activities obtained in the acquisition of Wilmington Trust on May 16, 2011 and the pre-acquisition trust activities of the Company. As of December 31, 2011 those activities were being operated as separate business lines. Revenues for CCS, WAS and the non Wilmington Trust-related trust activities were $119 million, $87 million and $116 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Individually and combined the net income of those activities did not exceed 10% of the Company’s net income in the recent year. The various components of the “All Other” category resulted in net losses of $145 million, $78 million and $335 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Contributing most to the unfavorable performance in 2011 as compared with 2010 were the following increased expenses, each largely related to the Wilmington Trust acquisition: a $150 million rise in personnel costs ($148 million related to the Wilmington Trust acquisition); increased equipment and net occupancy expenses of $25 million; and merger-related expenses of $84 million. Additional factors contributing to the unfavorable performance were: the $79 million other-than-temporary impairment charge related to M&T’s 20% investment in BLG; the $30 million cash contribution M&T made to The M&T Charitable Foundation in the fourth quarter of 2011; and the unfavorable impact from the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with the earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments and the provision for credit losses. Partly offsetting those unfavorable items were higher trust revenues of $210 million (reflecting the Wilmington Trust acquisition), the $65 million non-taxable gain on the Wilmington acquisition recorded in 2011 as compared with net taxable merger-related gains of $27 million in 2010, and the $55 million CDO litigation settlement received in the fourth quarter of 2011. As compared with 2009, the improved performance in 2010 was largely due to the favorable impact from the Company’s allocation methodologies for internal transfers for funding charges and credits associated with the earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities of the Company’s reportable segments and the provision for credit losses and the $27 million net merger-related gain in 2010, compared with net merger-related expenses in 2009 totaling $60 million.  

Recent Accounting Developments  

In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued amended disclosure guidance relating to offsetting assets and liabilities. The amendments require disclosure of gross and net information about instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. The scope of this guidance includes derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements and reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending arrangements. The guidance is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods within those annual periods. The new required disclosures should be applied retrospectively for all comparable periods presented. The Company intends to comply with the new disclosure guidance.  

In September 2011, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance relating to testing goodwill for impairment. The amendments provide the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. The optional guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. The Company did not early adopt the optional accounting guidance for its goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2011 and does not expect the guidance to have an impact on its financial position or results of operations.  

91  

Table of Contents 

In June 2011, the FASB issued amended presentation guidance relating to comprehensive income. The amendments eliminate the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and now require the presentation of total comprehensive income, the components of net income, and the components of other comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. In both options, an entity is required to present each component of net income along with total net income, each component of other comprehensive income along with a total for other comprehensive income, and a total amount for comprehensive income. With either approach, an entity would have been required to present reclassification adjustments for items reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s). In December 2011, the reclassification adjustments guidance was deferred indefinitely. All other presentation guidance will be effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2011 and should be applied retrospectively. The Company intends to comply with the new presentation guidance beginning in the first quarter of 2012.  

In May 2011, the FASB issued amended accounting and disclosure guidance relating to fair value measurements. The amendments were the result of the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board developing common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments change the wording used to describe several of the requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements, but generally do not result in a change in the application of the existing guidance. The guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and should be applied prospectively. The Company intends to comply with the amended accounting and disclosure guidance when it becomes effective, but does not anticipate that the adoption of this guidance will have a significant impact on any of its fair value measurements.  

In April 2011, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance relating to the assessment of effective control for repurchase agreements. The amendments remove from the assessment of effective control the criterion requiring the transferor to have the ability to repurchase or redeem the financial assets on substantially the agreed terms, even in the event of default by the transferee. The amendments also remove the collateral maintenance implementation guidance related to that criterion. The guidance is effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after December 15, 2011 and should be applied prospectively to transactions or modifications of existing transactions that occur on or after the effective date. The Company does not anticipate that the adoption of this guidance will have a significant effect on the reporting of its financial position or results of its operations.  

In April 2011, the FASB issued amended accounting and disclosure guidance relating to a creditor’s determination of whether a restructuring is a troubled debt restructuring. The amendments clarify the guidance on a creditor’s evaluation of whether it has granted a concession and whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. The amendments were effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011 and were required to be applied retrospectively to the beginning of the annual period of adoption. As a result of the application of the amendments, receivables previously measured under loss contingency guidance that are newly considered impaired should be disclosed, along with the related allowance for credit losses, as of the end of the period of adoption. For purposes of measuring impairment of those receivables, an entity was required to apply the amendments prospectively for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011. The deferred credit risk disclosure guidance issued in July 2010 relating to troubled debt restructurings was also effective for interim and annual periods beginning on or after June 15, 2011. The Company adopted the new accounting and disclosure requirements effective July 1, 2011. The impact of the required retrospective evaluation of loan modifications back to January 1, 2011 was insignificant. The disclosures relating to troubled debt restructurings can be found in note 4 of Notes to Financial Statements.  

In December 2010, the FASB issued amended disclosure guidance relating to the pro forma information for business combinations that occurred in the current reporting period. The amended disclosure states that if an entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination(s) that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period. The guidance is effective prospectively for business combinations for which the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2010. The Company has complied with these disclosure requirements in the reporting of pro forma information in note 2 of Notes to Financial Statements with respect to its business combination with Wilmington Trust.  

92  

Table of Contents 

In December 2010, the FASB issued amended accounting guidance relating to the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts, an entity is required to perform “Step Two” of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. In determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. The guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2010. Through December 31, 2011, the adoption of this guidance had no impact on the Company’s financial position or results of its operations.  

Forward-Looking Statements  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and other sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates and projections about the Company’s business, management’s beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “continue,” “positions,” “prospects” or “potential,” by future conditional verbs such as “will,” “would,” “should,” “could,” or “may,” or by variations of such words or by similar expressions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions (“Future Factors”) which are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and the Company assumes no duty to update forward-looking statements.  

Future Factors include changes in interest rates, spreads on earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and interest rate sensitivity; prepayment speeds, loan originations, credit losses and market values on loans, collateral securing loans and other assets; sources of liquidity; common shares outstanding; common stock price volatility; fair value of and number of stock-based compensation awards to be issued in future periods; the impact of changes in market values on trust-related revenues; legislation and/or regulation affecting the financial services industry as a whole, and M&T and its subsidiaries individually or collectively, including tax legislation or regulation; regulatory supervision and oversight, including monetary policy and capital requirements; changes in accounting policies or procedures as may be required by the FASB or other regulatory agencies; increasing price and product/service competition by competitors, including new entrants; rapid technological developments and changes; the ability to continue to introduce competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis; the mix of products/services; containing costs and expenses; governmental and public policy changes; protection and validity of intellectual property rights; reliance on large customers; technological, implementation and cost/financial risks in large, multi-year contracts; the outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings, including tax-related examinations and other matters; continued availability of financing; financial resources in the amounts, at the times and on the terms required to support M&T and its subsidiaries’ future businesses; and material differences in the actual financial results of merger, acquisition and investment activities compared with M&T’s initial expectations, including the full realization of anticipated cost savings and revenue enhancements.  

These are representative of the Future Factors that could affect the outcome of the forward-looking statements. In addition, such statements could be affected by general industry and market conditions and growth rates, general economic and political conditions, either nationally or in the states in which M&T and its subsidiaries do business, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations, changes and trends in the securities markets, and other Future Factors.  

93  

Table of Contents 

Table 23  

QUARTERLY TRENDS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and merger-related gains and expenses which, except in the calculation of the efficiency ratio, are net of applicable income tax effects. A reconciliation of net income and net operating income appears in Table 24.  

 (b) Excludes impact of merger-related gains and expenses and net securities transactions.  

 (c) The difference between total assets and total tangible assets, and common shareholders’ equity and tangible common shareholders’ equity, represents goodwill, core deposit and other intangible assets, net of applicable deferred tax balances. A reconciliation of such balances appears in Table 24.  

94  

Table of Contents 

Table 24  

RECONCILIATION OF QUARTERLY GAAP TO NON-GAAP MEASURES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) After any related tax effect.  

 (b) During the fourth quarter of 2011, the Company reclassified $64 million of investment in unconsolidated subsidiary from other intangible assets to other assets. Similar reclassification amounts have been reflected in the three-month periods ended September 30, 2011 and June 30, 2011 to conform to the 2011 year-end presentation.  

95  

Table of Contents 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.