PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

BUSINESS OVERVIEW 

SNI was incorporated under the laws of the State of Ohio on October 27, 2007, in connection with the July 1, 2008 spin-off from The E.W. Scripps Company.  

We are a global media company with respected high-profile brands and are a leading developer of lifestyle-oriented content, providing primarily home, food, travel and other lifestyle-related programming. Our content is distributed via multiple methods, including television, the internet, digital platforms and licensing arrangements. The SNI portfolio of networks includes HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country within and outside the United States (“U.S.”), with the exception of Great American Country, which is only distributed in the United States, and Fine Living, Asian Food Channel (“AFC”) and TVN S.A.’s (“TVN”) portfolio of networks outside the United States. Additionally, outside the United States, we participate in UKTV, a joint venture  

4 

with BBC Worldwide Limited (the “BBC”). Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by producing and delivering entertaining and highly-useful content that focuses on specifically-defined topics of interest. 

We intend to expand and enhance our lifestyle brands by: growing our brands through the creation of popular new programming and content; reaching additional demographics; extending distribution on various platforms, such as over-the-top and digital entrants providing streaming and/or on-demand services; and increasing our international footprint. We have a large library of content which we produced and own the rights to indefinitely, enabling us to exploit original programming quickly and/or repackage content in a cost-effective manner. 

We are focused on strengthening our networks and expanding reach, including in both the digital arena and international market. As part of our effort to expand in the digital arena, we launched Scripps Lifestyle Studios in the fourth quarter of 2015.  

Segment data and other information for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 are included in Note 21 – Segment Information to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 

We have two reportable segments: U.S. Networks and International Networks. 

Our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) evaluates the operating performance of our businesses and makes decisions about the allocation of resources to the businesses using a measure we refer to as segment profit. Segment profit is defined as operating income excluding depreciation, amortization and goodwill write-downs. Because segment profit is based on operating income, it excludes interest expense, equity in earnings of affiliates, gain on derivatives, gain on sale of investments, other miscellaneous non-operating expenses and income taxes, which are included in net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). 

Depreciation and amortization charges are a result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are, therefore, excluded from segment profit. Also excluded from segment profit are financing, tax structuring and acquisition and divestiture decisions, which are generally made by corporate executives. Excluding these items from the performance measure of our businesses enables management to evaluate operating performance based on current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of the businesses in the current period. 

U.S. Networks 

U.S. Networks includes our six national television networks: HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country. Additionally, U.S. Networks includes websites associated with the aforementioned television brands and other internet and digital businesses serving home, food, travel and other lifestyle-related categories. U.S. Networks also includes our digital content studio, Scripps Lifestyle Studios. We own 100.0 percent of each of our networks, with the exception of Food Network and Cooking Channel, of which we own 68.7 percent. Each of our networks is distributed by cable and satellite operators, telecommunication suppliers and other distributors, including digital service providers.  

U.S. Networks generates revenues primarily from advertising sales and distribution fees earned from the right to distribute our programming content. U.S. Networks also earns revenues from licensing content to third parties and brands for consumer products. 

Advertising revenues generated by our domestic television networks depend on viewership ratings, as determined by Nielsen Media Research and other third-party research companies, and advertising rates paid by customers for delivery of advertisements to certain viewer demographics. Revenues from advertising sales are subject to seasonality, market-based variations and general economic conditions. Advertising revenues are typically highest in the second and fourth quarters and can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programming, time of day an advertisement is run and seasonal demand of advertisers.  

5 

Revenues from distribution fees are typically the result of multi-year carriage agreements that contain scheduled rate increases. Distribution fees are determined by the number of subscribers with access to the content of our various networks. 

Our lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media that is intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of home, food, travel and other lifestyle-oriented content.  

The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of our presence on multiple social media applications, TV Everywhere watch sites, mobile applications and desktop websites, including, but not limited to, our six network-branded websites: HGTV.com, Foodnetwork.com, Travelchannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, Cookingchanneltv.com and Greatamericancountry.com. In addition to serving as websites for the television networks, the websites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their respective lifestyle content categories. Revenues generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses are derived primarily from the sale of display, banner and video advertising through all of these platforms. All of our interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming, of which we own approximately 94.2 percent. Owning our programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on websites and digital platforms, including video‑on‑demand and streaming services. 

The lifestyle-oriented websites accounted for approximately 5.2 percent of U.S. Networks’ total operating revenues in 2016. The strategic focus of the lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses is to grow advertising revenues by increasing views and video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our websites through site enhancements and additional video. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through placing our video programming on national video streaming sites, developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth on our digital platforms and capitalizing on the movement of advertising dollars to mobile platforms. 

Programming expenses, employee costs and marketing and advertising expenses are the primary operating costs of U.S. Networks. Marketing and advertising expenses are incurred to support brand-building initiatives at all of our networks. 

HGTV  

HGTV is available in approximately 91.6 million domestic television households and is simulcast in high definition (“HD”). HGTV programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home-related topics, such as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. HGTV appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. HGTV ranked second among women in the 25 to 54 age range for cable networks. Also, HGTV ranked third among all adult viewers and eighth among adult viewers in the 25 to 54 age range for cable networks.  

Programming on HGTV includes House Hunters, House Hunters International, Fixer Upper, Flip or Flop, The Property Brothers and Beachfront Bargain Hunt. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Smart Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway and annual live coverage of the Tournament of Roses Parade. Many of the programs on HGTV feature, or are hosted by, high-profile television personalities such as Chip and Joanna Gaines, Tarek and Christina El Moussa, Drew and Jonathan Scott, David Bromstad and Egypt Sherrod.  

Food Network  

Food Network is available in approximately 93.4 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 68.7 percent of the Food Network and are the managing partner. The Tribune Media Company (“Tribune”) has a non-controlling interest of 31.3 percent in Food Network.  

Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested specifically in food-related topics, such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, competition, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences  

6 

by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. Food Network appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. Food Network ranked within the top 15 cable networks for adults in the 25 to 54 age range.  

Programming on Food Network includes primetime series Beat Bobby Flay, Chopped, Diners, Drive-ins and Dives, Food Network Star and Guy’s Grocery Games, as well as daytime series Giada in Italy, The Kitchen, Pioneer Woman and Trisha’s Southern Kitchen. Food Network hosts include high-profile television personalities such as Ted Allen, Alton Brown, Anne Burrell, Giada De Laurentiis, Bobby Flay, Guy Fieri, Alex Guarnaschelli, Geoffrey Zakarian, Ree Drummond, Trisha Yearwood and Valerie Bertinelli.  

Travel Channel  

Travel Channel is available in approximately 85.4 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. Travel Channel programming content attracts travel enthusiasts and adventurous personalities. Travel Channel appeals more strongly to viewers who are more affluent than the average viewer.  

Programming on Travel Channel includes Hotel Impossible, Mysteries at the Museum, Bizarre Foods, Trip Flip, Booze Traveler and Expedition Unknown. Many of the programs on Travel Channel feature, or are hosted by, high-profile television personalities such as Andrew Zimmern, Samantha Brown, Don Wildman, Anthony Melchiorri, Bert Kreischer, Jack Maxwell, Josh Gates and Zak Bagans.  

DIY Network  

DIY Network is available in approximately 59.6 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. DIY Network programming content attracts do-it-yourself audiences and provides entertaining and informational content across a broad range of categories, including home building, home improvement and renovations, gardening and landscaping. DIY Network appeals more strongly to male viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges.  

Programming on DIY Network includes Rehab Addict, Vanilla Ice Project, Building Alaska, First Time Flippers, Tiny House Big Living and Texas Flip N Move. Many of the programs on DIY Network feature, or are hosted by, television personalities such as Nicole Curtis, Vanilla Ice, Alison Victoria and Chris Lambton.  

Cooking Channel  

Cooking Channel is available in approximately 65.1 million domestic households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 68.7 percent of Cooking Channel, which represents a controlling interest. Tribune has a non-controlling interest of 31.3 percent in Cooking Channel.  

Cooking Channel programming content caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information, food exploration and instructional cooking. The Cooking Channel appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges.  

Programming on Cooking Channel includes Big Bad BBQ Brawl, Beach Bites with Katie Lee, Carnival Eats, Cheap Eats, Dinner at Tiffani’s, Food Fact or Fiction and Man Fire Food. Cooking Channel hosts include notable television personalities such as Katie Lee, Michael McKean and Tiffani Thiessen. 

Great American Country  

Great American Country is available in approximately 57.0 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD. Great American Country provides its viewers with programming content that celebrates the country lifestyle and includes the country music experience, music performance specials, live concerts and country music videos.  

Programming on Great American Country includes Going RV, Flea Market Flip, Log Cabin Living, Living Alaska and the Top 20 Country Countdown.  

7 

International Networks 

International Networks includes the TVN portfolio of networks and other lifestyle-oriented networks available in the United Kingdom (“UK”), other European markets, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), Asia Pacific (“APAC”) and Latin America.  

International Networks generates revenues primarily from advertising sales, distribution fees earned from the right to distribute our programming content and program licensing to third parties. Satellite transmission fees, programming expenses, employee costs and marketing and advertising expenses are the primary operating costs of International Networks.  

We currently distribute HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel, AFC and Fine Living Network, as well as the TVN network portfolio, in more than 175 countries and territories around the world. Our networks are broadcast in 30 languages via 41 unique channel feeds reaching more than 300 million cumulative subscribers. In addition to the broadcast networks, we also license a portion of our programming to other broadcasters around the world.  

Internationally, we also have joint-venture partnerships with the BBC for UKTV and its suite of 10 general entertainment and lifestyle networks in the UK and with Corus Entertainment for HGTV, DIY Network, Food Network and Cooking Channel in Canada.  

In 2010, the Company launched its first international pay-television channel through Food Network in the UK. The channel first launched on pay-television, then expanded its distribution in 2012 to free-to-air on Freeview, initially in primetime and then as a full 24-hour broadcast channel in 2013. Currently, Food Network is the third most viewed lifestyle channel and the fifth most viewed non-scripted factual channel in the UK. Food Network is also available across EMEA, APAC and Latin America. 

In 2012, Travel Channel International Ltd. (“TCI”) was acquired, along with its base of operations in London. TCI is broadcast in 29 languages across a wide network of affiliates throughout EMEA and APAC. In 2014, TCI also became available on Freeview in primetime in the UK. 

In 2013, the Company acquired AFC, a complementary channel brand to Food Network. AFC, which is based in Singapore, broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week and reaches about 10.4 million subscribers in 11 markets. 

In early 2014, we launched the Fine Living Network in Italy on the digital terrestrial television. Since its launch, over 48.2 percent of Italy’s television population has tuned into the channel. In late 2014, we launched HGTV in Singapore. HGTV is the first channel dedicated to the home and lifestyle category across APAC.  

During 2015, we acquired TVN, a Polish media company, which operates a portfolio of 13 free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle and entertainment networks, including TVN, TVN24, TVN Style, TTV, TVN Turbo, TVN24 Biznes i Świat. Also included in TVN is TVN Media, an advertising sales house. Also in 2015, we launched Travel Channel as a 24/7 free-to-air channel in the UK; expanded distribution of Food Network across Latin America and HGTV in APAC; launched Food Network in Australia in partnership with Special Broadcasting Service (“SBS”); secured a large volume output deal with Nine in Australia to launch Food Network and HGTV-branded blocks on newly-established 9LIFE, Australia’s first free-to-air lifestyle network. 

In the second quarter of 2016, we launched HGTV as a free-to-air channel in New Zealand as a first of its kind offering in the region. In the fourth quarter of 2016, we launched HGTV in the Middle East and North Africa. Also during the fourth quarter of 2016, we launched Cooking Channel in Canada, marking the first time we distributed this network outside the United States and Caribbean. 

Competition 

Cable, satellite and telecommunications network programming is a highly-competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our television networks and interactive businesses generally compete for advertising revenue with other  

8 

cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our television networks and interactive business also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks and video-on-demand services, streaming services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Additionally, our networks compete with other television networks for distribution fees derived from agreements with cable and satellite operators, telecommunication suppliers and other distributors, including digital service providers. 

Intellectual Property 

Our intellectual property (“IP”) assets include copyrights in television content, trademarks and servicemarks in brands, names and logos, websites, and licenses from third parties. To defend these assets, we rely upon a combination of common law, statutory and contractual legal protections. There can be no assurance, however, of the degree to which these measures will be successful. Moreover, effective IP protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related IP is difficult and costly. Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our IP from time to time, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of IP rights. Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations. In addition, piracy, which encompasses the theft of our signal and unauthorized use of our content in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues. 

Regulatory Matters 

The Company is subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to the laws and regulations of international countries and bodies, such as the European Union (the “EU”). These laws and regulations are subject to change. Additionally, in the U.S. the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) regulates cable television and satellite operators and telecommunication suppliers, which could affect our networks indirectly. 

Closed Captioning 

All of our cable networks must provide closed-captioning programming for the hearing impaired. The 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2011 also requires us to provide closed captioning on certain video programming that we offer on the internet. 

CALM Act 

FCC rules require multichannel video programming distributors to ensure that all commercials comply with specified volume standards. Our distribution agreements generally require us to certify compliance with such standards. 

“Must-Carry” Requirements 

The FCC’s implementation of the statutory “must-carry” obligations requires cable operators and multichannel video programming distributors to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space. In contrast, cable programming television networks, such as ours, have no guaranteed right of carriage on these systems. This may reduce the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our television networks by these systems. 

Regulation of the Internet and Mobile Applications 

We operate numerous websites and make available mobile applications (“apps”) which we use to distribute information about our programs and to engage more deeply with our viewers. The operation of these websites and apps is subject to a range of international, federal, state and local laws, such as privacy and consumer protection regulations. 

9 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately 3,600 full-time equivalent employees globally. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS