ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

A number of significant risk factors could materially affect our specific business operations and cause our performance to differ materially from any future results projected or implied by our prior statements. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. The risks and uncertainties our Company faces, however, are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. 

In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 

If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our Class A Common Shares could decline. 

Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences could reduce demand for our services and reduce profitability of our businesses. 

Each of our networks provides content and services whose success is primarily dependent on widespread acceptance by the public. We must consistently create and distribute offerings that appeal to the prevailing consumer tastes at any point in time, which is difficult to predict and can change rapidly. The Company must invest substantial amounts in the production and marketing of its content before it learns whether such content will reach anticipated levels of popularity with consumers. The popularity of the Company’s content depends on many factors, only some of which are within the Company’s control. Examples include the popularity of competing content, the availability of alternative forms of leisure and entertainment activities, general economic conditions, the growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and the Company’s ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness with key target audiences.  

There is a premium on live viewers of content, including the quality of the audience, which is driven by viewer income and spending habits. The anticipated demographics which our advertising customers seek drives pricing strength, which could be negatively impacted should widespread customer acceptance of our content not occur.  

Any event that could cast negative light on our entertainment personalities or negatively impact our brands and brand reputation could have a material impact on our earnings. 

If we are unable to maintain distribution agreements at acceptable rates, packaging and terms, our revenues and profitability could be negatively affected. 

We enter into multi-year contracts for our national television networks with distributors. Our long-term distribution arrangements enable us to reach a large percentage of households receiving multichannel video programming distribution across the United States. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate them. If we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms or at rates and/or packaging similar to those in other distribution contracts, we may lose distribution rights and/or distribution fee revenues. 

These distribution agreements may also include “most favored nation” (“MFN”) clauses. Such clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another distributor on more favorable terms, those terms must be offered to the distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. The MFN clauses within our distribution agreements are generally complex. Parties may interpret them differently and reach a conflicting view of compliance of that held by the Company, which, if proven correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

10 

The loss of a significant distribution arrangement on basic programming tiers could reduce distribution of our networks, thereby adversely affecting distribution revenues, subjecting certain of our intangible assets to possible impairments and potentially impacting our ability to sell advertising at acceptable rates. 

Three of our networks that are carried on digital tiers are dependent upon the willingness of consumers to pay for such tiers, as well as our ability to negotiate favorable carriage agreements on widely accepted digital tiers. 

Further consolidation among cable and satellite operators and telecommunications suppliers could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition of our businesses. Consolidation among distributors has given the largest cable and satellite operators considerable leverage in their relationship with content providers. The four largest distributors in the United States provide service to approximately 79.8 percent of U.S. paid television households receiving cable or satellite television service today. 

Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors available to carry our programming, subject our distribution revenue to greater volume discounts and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite operators and telecommunications suppliers, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 

Additionally, deficiencies with the methodologies of audience measurement techniques on tablets, mobile devices and emerging technologies may adversely impact our ability to monetize the use of our content. 

Service disruptions and/or the failure of communications relied on by the Company could have a negative impact on the profitability of our business. 

Our business relies heavily on communications satellites and transmitter facilities to transmit our programming to distributors. Shutdowns of satellites and transmitter facilities or service disruptions pose significant risks to the Company’s operations. Such disruptions may be caused by power outages, natural disasters, extreme weather, terrorist attacks, failures or impairments of communication satellites or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming or other similar events. If a satellite is not able to transmit the Company’s programming, the Company may not be able to secure an alternative communication satellite in a timely manner because there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If such an event were to occur, there could be a disruption in the delivery of the Company’s programming, which could harm the Company’s reputation and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.  

Our networks face significant competitive pressures related to attracting consumers and advertisers. Failure by us to maintain our competitive advantage may affect the profitability of our networks. 

We face substantial competition from alternative providers of similar services. Our national television networks compete for viewers with other broadcast and national television networks and with home video products and internet usage, as well as with other content providers for carriage of programming. Additionally, our national television networks compete for advertising revenues with a variety of other media alternatives, including other broadcast and national television networks, the internet, newspapers, radio stations and print media. Our websites compete for visitors and advertising dollars with other forms of media aimed at attracting similar audiences and, therefore, must provide popular content in order to maintain and increase site traffic. Competition may divert consumers from our services, which could reduce the profitability of our networks. 

Changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may impact the performance of our networks. 

We must adapt to advances in technologies and distribution platforms related to content transfer to ensure that our content remains desirable and widely available to our audiences. The ability to anticipate and take advantage of new and future sources of revenue from technological developments will affect our ability to continue to increase our revenue and expand our business. Additionally, we must adapt to the changing consumer behavior driven by advances in technology, such as video-on-demand, and devices, such as tablets and mobile, providing consumers the ability to view content from remote locations and enabling general preferences for user-generated and interactive  

11 

content. Changes of these types may impact our traditional distribution methods for our content. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content allow us to reach our target audiences, there could be a negative effect on our business. 

We face cybersecurity, information security, systems security, privacy and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses. 

Our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal systems, involve the storage and transmission of our and our users’ proprietary information. Additionally, we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming. Although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee error, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive, private or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our or our users’ proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services and/or significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. 

The loss of key talent or inability to identify and locate new and engaging talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. 

Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. We employ or contract with entertainment personalities who may have loyal audiences. These individuals are important to audience endorsement of our programs and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or retain their current audiences. If we fail to retain key individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current audience base, our operations could be adversely affected. 

Any event that could negatively impact our brands and brand reputation could have a material impact to our earnings. 

We are subject to risks related to our international operations. 

We have operations and investments in a number of foreign jurisdictions. The inherent economic risks of doing business in international markets that are beyond our control include, among other things (i) changes in the economic environment, (ii) changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content, imposition of local content quotas and restrictions on foreign ownership, (iii) differing degrees of protection for IP and varying attitudes towards the piracy of IP, (iv) exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers, (v) foreign taxation, (vi) anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations and changes in these laws and regulations, (vii) foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulation and changes in these laws, (viii) shifting consumer preferences regarding the viewing of video programming, (ix) corruption, (x) confiscation, (xi) currency inconvertibility, (xii) nationalization of assets and (xiii), in some markets, increased risk of economic and geopolitical instability. Additionally, the local currencies in which our international operations conduct their business could change in value relative to the U.S. Dollar (“USD”), exposing our results to exchange rate fluctuations. 

Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and prospects. 

12 

Furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the U.S. We also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes, including the imposition of new restrictions, in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business. Acts of terrorism, hostilities, or financial, political, economic or other uncertainties could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 

Our business is subject to risks of adverse changes in laws and regulations. 

Our programming services and the distributors of our programming, including cable and satellite operators, telecommunication suppliers and other distributors, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations. For example, legislators and regulators continue to consider rules that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an à la carte basis, which would allow viewers to subscribe to individual networks rather than a package of networks, and/or require programmers to sell channels to distributors on an à la carte basis. Certain cable television operators and other distributors have already introduced tiers, or more targeted network packages, to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. The unbundling of programming could reduce distribution of certain of our networks, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses and affecting our ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars or distribution fees. 

We could be subject to material liabilities as a result of changes in tax laws, regulations and policies 

We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and policies in federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate and may be subject to significant change. In addition, our tax returns may be audited and settlements or litigation may occur. Such changes, audit settlements or litigation may result in the recognition of an additional charge to our income tax provision in the period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or require additional cash payments which may impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 

Changes in global economic conditions, economic conditions in the United States and the regional economies in which we operate or in specific industry sectors could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. 

Approximately 84.8 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2016 were derived from marketing and advertising spending in the United States, and approximately 13.0 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2016 were derived from marketing and advertising spending in Poland, including revenues from our advertising representation business in Poland. Advertising and marketing spending is sensitive to economic conditions and tends to decline in recessionary periods. A global or regional economic decline could reduce advertising prices and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. 

Our business is significantly affected by prevailing economic conditions and by disruptions to financial markets. We derive substantial revenues from advertisers, and these expenditures are sensitive to general economic conditions and consumer buying patterns. Financial instability or a general decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed could adversely affect advertising rates and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues. 

Decreases in consumer discretionary spending in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed may affect cable television and other video service subscriptions, in particular with respect to digital service tiers on which certain of our programming networks are carried. This could lead to a decrease in the number of subscribers receiving our programming from multi-channel video programming distributors, which could have a negative impact on our viewing subscribers and revenues from distribution fees. Similarly, a decrease in viewing subscribers would also have a negative impact on the number of viewers actually watching the programs on our programming networks, which could also impact the rates we are able to charge advertisers. 

13 

Economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide and impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. Economic conditions can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. The general worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and the worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world could impact the expansion and success of our businesses in such areas. 

Our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. 

Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than U.S. law. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S., and these differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business and our rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. law.  

Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. In addition, the business and political climate in some jurisdictions may encourage corruption, which could reduce our ability to compete successfully in those jurisdictions while remaining in compliance with local laws or United States anti-corruption laws applicable to our businesses. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law governed these operations. 

Increased costs associated with programming may adversely impact our ability to profitably produce new content. 

Our business relies on our ability to profitably produce quality programming that is widely accepted by our target demographics. Our core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of lifestyle content, the costs of which can be significant. Our investments in original programming and development are significant and involve complex negotiations with multiple parties. These costs may not be recouped when the content is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. Increased competition from new entrants into the market for development and production of original programming increases our content costs, as creating competing high quality, original content can require significant investment.  

We may incur additional debt in the future. Such debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments. 

We currently depend on cash on hand and cash flows from operations to make scheduled principal and cash interest payments on our debt. We expect to be able to meet the estimated principal and interest payments on our debt through a combination of cash on hand, expected cash flows from operations and the use of our revolving credit facility. Additionally, we may incur further debt in the future for other corporate purposes.  

Increased volatility and disruptions in the U.S. and global financial and equity markets may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing. Our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent ratings agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A low rating could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing. Unforeseeable changes in foreign currencies could negatively impact our results of operations and calculations of interest coverage and leverage ratios.  

Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  

We have significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of our operations are conducted and certain of our debt obligations are denominated in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the USD. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. As a result, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on our  

14 

results of operations and net asset balances. There is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain unchanged in any period or for any specific market.  

The concentrated ownership of our Common Voting Shares limits the ability of the holders of our Class A Common Shares to influence corporate matters.  

We have two classes of common stock: Common Voting Shares and Class A Common Shares. Holders of Class A Common Shares are entitled to elect the greater of three or one-third of the members of the Board of Directors (the “Board”), but are not permitted to vote on any other matters except as required by Ohio law. Holders of Common Voting Shares are entitled to elect the remainder of the Board and to vote on all other matters. Approximately 92 percent of the Common Voting Shares are subject to the Amended and Restated Scripps Family Agreement (the “Scripps Family Agreement”). The provisions of the Scripps Family Agreement fully govern the transfer and voting of Common Voting Shares subject to the agreement. As a result, the holders of the Common Voting Shares subject to the Scripps Family Agreement currently have the ability to elect two-thirds of the Board and to direct the outcome of any matter that does not require a vote of the Class A Common Shares. Additionally, some of the signatories to the Scripps Family Agreement are also directors of the Company, which could create conflicts of interest in certain situations. This concentrated control limits the ability of the holders of Class A Common Shares to influence corporate matters and could potentially enable the Company to take actions that these shareholders would not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our Class A Common Shares could be adversely affected. 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None. 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES