Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Market Risk and Credit Risk

Certain of the Company’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets.

Interest Rate Risk and Credit Risk

Interest income generated from the Company’s cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates.

The Company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 6 basis points, over the course of the year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $2 million.

In addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counter-party credit risk. To minimize this risk, the Company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a Board approved investment policy. The policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counter-party limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. The Company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. The majority of cash and fiduciary fund investments are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds.

Foreign Currency Risk

The translated values of revenue and expense from the Company’s international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. The non-U.S. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 51% of total revenue. We periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. As such, under normal circumstances, the U.S. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the U.S. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. If foreign exchange rates of major currencies (Euro, Sterling, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar) moved 10% in the same direction against the U.S. dollar compared with the foreign exchange rates in 2015, the Company estimates net operating income would increase or decrease by approximately $50 million. The Company has exposure to approximately 80 foreign currencies overall. Starting at the end of 2014 and continuing through 2015, the U.S. dollar strengthened significantly against most currencies, which had a significant impact on net operating income in 2015. If exchange rates at January 31, 2016 hold constant throughout 2016, the Company estimates the year-over-year impact from conversion of foreign currency earnings will reduce full year income by approximately $50 million. In Continental Europe, the largest amount of revenue from renewals for the Risk & Insurance segment occurs in the first quarter. Consequently, a significant portion of the year-over-year foreign exchange impact is expected to occur in the first quarter.

45

Equity Price Risk

The Company holds investments in both public and private companies as well as private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. Investments of approximately $20 million are classified as available for sale, approximately $76 million are accounted for using the cost method, which includes the Company's investment in Benefitfocus, and $347 million are accounted for using the equity method, which includes the Company's investments in Alexander Forbes. The investments are subject to risk of changes in market value, which, if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements.

At December 31, 2015, the carrying value of the Company's investment in Alexander Forbes, purchased at 7.50 South African Rand per share, was approximately $230 million. The market value of the Company's shares, based on the closing share price of 5.78 Rand per share, was approximately $166 million. During 2015, the share price of Alexander Forbes ranged from 10.38 Rand to 5.32 Rand. The trading price first dropped below MMC's purchase price at the end of November 2015. The Company considered several factors related to its investment in Alexander Forbes, including its financial position, the near- and long-term prospects of Alexander Forbes and the broader South African economy and capital markets, the length of time and extent to which the market value was below cost, and the Company’s intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for anticipated recovery in market value. As a result, the Company determined the investment was not impaired.

Other

A number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.

46

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA