Item 1A. Risk Factors 

You should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. These risks have the potential to materially adversely affect the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition.

RISKS RELATING TO THE COMPANY GENERALLY

Legal and Regulatory Issues

We are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims.

Our operating companies provide numerous professional services, including the placement of insurance and the provision of consulting, investment advisory, actuarial and other services, to clients around the world. As a result of these activities, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to a significant number of errors and omissions, breach of fiduciary duty and similar claims, which we refer to collectively as "E&O claims." In our Risk and Insurance Services segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from our failure to adequately place coverage or notify insurers of potential claims on behalf of clients. In our Consulting segment, such claims include allegations of damages arising from the provision of consulting, investments, actuarial, pension administration and other services. These services frequently involve complex calculations and other analysis, including (i) assumptions and estimates concerning contingent future events, (ii) drafting and interpretation of complex documentation governing pension plans, (iii) calculating benefits within complex pension structures and (iv) the provision of investment advice, including regarding asset allocation and investment strategy, and management of client assets, including the selection of investment managers. Given the long-tail nature of many of these types of claims, these matters often relate to services provided by the Company dating back many years. Such claims may subject us to significant liability for monetary damages, including punitive and treble damages, negative publicity and reputational harm and may divert personnel and management resources. We may be unable to effectively limit our potential liability in certain jurisdictions or in connection with certain types of claims, particularly including those concerning claims of a breach of fiduciary duty.

In establishing liabilities for E&O claims in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic No. 450-20 (Contingencies - Loss Contingencies), the Company uses case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis and other analysis to estimate potential losses. A liability is established when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. The liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. In many cases, the Company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Nevertheless, given the challenges inherent in establishing liabilities in accordance with FASB ASC Subtopic No. 450-20, as well as the unpredictability of E&O claims and the litigation that can flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period.

Further, and as more fully described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report, we are subject to legal proceedings, regulatory investigations and other contingencies other than E&O claims which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.

12

We cannot guarantee that we are or will be in compliance with all current and potentially applicable U.S. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States and its various states, the European Union and its member states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. For example, we are subject to regulation by agencies such as the SEC in the United States and the FCA in the United Kingdom, state insurance regulators in the United States and self-regulatory organizations such as FINRA, as further described above under Part I, Item 1 - Business (Regulation) of this report. We are also subject to trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as Cuba, Iran, Russia, Sudan and Syria, and anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. We are subject to numerous other laws on matters as diverse as internal and disclosure controls and procedures, securities regulation, data privacy and protection, taxation, anti-trust, immigration, wage-and-hour standards and employment and labor relations.

The U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to our operations are complex, and our efforts to comply with these myriad laws and regulations require significant resources. In some cases, these laws and regulations may impose operational limitations on our business, including on the products and services we may offer or on the rates we may charge for our products and services. While we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants and our contractors and other agents are in full compliance with such laws and regulations or interpretations at all times, or that we will be able to comply with any future laws or regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal penalties or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, increased scrutiny or oversight by regulatory authorities, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. The cost of compliance and the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on the Company by exposing us to negative publicity and reputational damage or by harming our client or employee relationships.

In most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret and amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke the various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. Such authorities may require the Company to incur substantial costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. In some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry's interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. In the event those interpretations eventually prove different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities, we may be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. Moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate, which increases the likelihood of our businesses being non-compliant in one or more jurisdictions.

We could incur significant liability or our reputation could be damaged if our information systems are breached or we otherwise fail to protect client or Company data or information systems.

We rely on the efficient, uninterrupted and secure operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business and securely process, transmit and store electronic information. Information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses and other malware, ransomware and other types of security breaches. Our systems are also subject to compromise from improper action by employees, vendors and other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. We could experience significant harm if our information systems are breached, or sensitive client or Company data are compromised. 

We are at risk of attack by a growing list of adversaries, be it state-sponsored organizations, organized crime, hackers or "hactivists" (activist hackers), through use of increasingly sophisticated methods of attack, including long-term, persistent attacks referred to as advanced persistent threats. Because the 

13

techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures, resulting in potential data loss or other damage to information technology systems. 

As the breadth and complexity of our infrastructure continues to grow, including as a result of the use of mobile technologies, cloud services, social media and the increased reliance on devices connected to the Internet (known as the "Internet of Things"), the potential risk of security breaches and cyberattacks also increases. Although encryption is growing in use as a means to protect data from theft, we may not be able to encrypt the data across our diverse systems. Should an attacker gain access to our network using compromised credentials of an authorized user, we are at risk that the attacker might successfully leverage that access to compromise additional systems and data. Certain measures that could increase the security of our infrastructure, such as data encryption or deployment of multi-factor authentication, take significant time and resources to deploy broadly. The inability to implement, maintain and upgrade adequate safeguards could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Due to the large number of systems and platforms that we operate, the increased frequency at which vendors issue security patches to their products and the need to test patches and, in some cases coordinate with clients and vendors, before they can be deployed, we are at risk that we cannot deploy patches in a timely manner. We are also dependent on third party vendors like cloud service providers to keep their systems patched in order to protect our data. If we, our clients and our vendors are unable to keep our systems patched in a timely manner, our systems may be breached, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

We have numerous vendors and other third parties who receive personal information from us in connection with the services we offer our clients. A small percentage of them have direct access to our systems. We are at risk of a cyber-attack involving a vendor or other third party, which could result in a breakdown of its data protection processes or the cyber-attackers gaining access to our infrastructure through the third party. To the extent that a vendor or third party suffers a cyberattack that compromises their operations, we could incur significant costs and possible service interruption, which could have an adverse effect on our business.

We have a history of making acquisitions, including 92 acquisitions in the period from 2009-2015. The process of integrating the information systems of the businesses we acquire is complex and exposes us to additional risk. For instance, we may not adequately identify weaknesses in the target’s information systems, either before or after the acquisition, which could affect the value we are able to derive from the acquisition, expose us to unexpected liabilities or make our own systems more vulnerable to a cyber-attack. We may also be unable to integrate the systems of the businesses we acquire into our environment in a timely manner, which could further increase these risks until such integration takes place.

Our policies, procedures and technical safeguards may be insufficient to prevent or detect improper access to confidential, personal or proprietary information by employees, vendors or other third parties with otherwise legitimate access to our systems. Improper access to or disclosure of sensitive client or Company information could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts, as well as under existing or future laws, rules and regulations, resulting in increased legal and other costs and harm to our reputation and our business. 

We have from time to time experienced data incidents and cybersecurity breaches, such as malware incursions (including computer viruses and ransomware), users exceeding their data access authorization, employee misconduct, and incidents resulting from human error, such as loss of portable and other data storage devices. Like many companies, we are subject to regular phishing email campaigns directed at our employees that can result in malware infections and data losses. Although these incidents have resulted in data loss and other damages, to date, they have not had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In the future, these types of incidents could result in confidential, personal or proprietary information being lost or stolen, including client, employee or company data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also may be unable to detect an incident, assess its severity or impact, or appropriately respond in a timely manner.

14

Privacy laws are proliferating and changing frequently, at times in a manner that creates conflicting demands. We may not be in compliance with all applicable U.S. federal and state or foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate.

In providing services and solutions to clients, we store sensitive client or Company data, including personal data, in multiple jurisdictions. We leverage systems and applications that are spread all over the world requiring us to regularly move data across national borders. We expect these activities to increase in scope and complexity. As a result, we are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the national laws implementing the European Union’s Data Protection Directive and various U.S. federal and state laws governing the protection of health or other personally identifiable information. These laws and regulations are frequently changing and are becoming increasingly complex and sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. For example, the European Union has just reached an agreement on a new General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR) that greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of its laws and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, such as privacy impact assessments, data portability and the appointment of data protection officers in some cases. Other countries are passing data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time.

Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client or Company data, whether through systems failure, employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could subject us to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, fines and criminal prosecution in one or more jurisdictions. Under the GDPR, certain violations may trigger a fine of up to 4% of a corporation’s global annual revenue. Such events could also result in negative publicity and damage to our reputation, and cause us to lose clients, and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our liability insurance, which includes cyber insurance, may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches.

Financial Risks

Our pension obligations could cause the Company's financial position, earnings and cash flows to fluctuate.

The Company has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $14.8 billion, and related plan assets of approximately $14.0 billion, at December 31, 2015. The Company's policy for funding its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth by U.S. law and the laws of the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company offers defined benefit plans. In the United States, contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on ERISA guidelines. Contribution rates for non-U.S. plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ from measurements under U.S. GAAP. In the United Kingdom, for example, contributions to defined benefit pension plans are based on statutory requirements and are determined through a negotiation process between the Company and the plans' trustee. This negotiation process is governed by U.K. pension regulations. Certain of the assumptions that result from the funding negotiations are different from those used for U.S. GAAP and currently result in a lower funded status than under U.S. GAAP.

During 2015, the Company contributed $29 million to its U.S. pension plans and $166 million to its non-U.S. pension plans. The calculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans are complex. As indicated in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, pension plan assets and liabilities, periodic pension expense and future funding amounts are affected by future asset performance, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation, mortality assumptions and other variables. Given the magnitude of our worldwide pension plans, variations in or reassessment of the preceding factors or potential miscalculations relating to our defined benefit pension plans could cause significant fluctuation from year to year in our earnings and cash flow, as well as our pension plan assets, liabilities and equity, and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans.

15

Our results of operations could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions and political events around the world and the effects of these conditions and events on our clients' businesses and levels of business activity.

Macroeconomic conditions and political events around the world affect our clients' businesses and the markets they serve. These conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing for those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in macroeconomic and political conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have a competitive advantage, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. If the demand for our products and services declines as a result of macroeconomic conditions, political events or other factors, we may be required to restructure our business, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy.

Our investments, including our minority investments in other companies as well as our cash investments and those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks. These may be exacerbated by global macroeconomic conditions, market volatility and regulatory, financial and other difficulties affecting the companies in which we have invested or that may be faced by financial institution counterparties. During times of stress in the banking industry, counterparty risk can quickly escalate, potentially resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. In addition, we may incur investment losses as a result of unusual and unpredictable market developments, and we may continue to experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain at or near their current low levels. If the banking system or the fixed income, interest rate, credit or equity markets deteriorate, the value and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected.

Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business.

We are subject to exchange rate movement because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Our U.S. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in U.S. dollars. In certain jurisdictions, however, our Risk and Insurance Services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. Due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. Because the non-U.S. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 51% of total revenue, exchange rate movement can have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. For additional discussion, see "Market Risk and Credit Risk-Foreign Currency Risk" in Part II, Item 7A ("Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk") of this report.

We may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.

The Company is organized as a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. Because we do not have significant operations of our own, we are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, paying dividends to stockholders, repurchasing our common stock under our share repurchase program and paying corporate expenses. In the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay sufficient dividends and make other payments to the Company, we may not be able to service our debt, pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock or meet our other obligations.

Further, the Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the United States. Funds from current year’s earnings of the Company's non-U.S. operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the United States. A number of factors could arise that could limit our ability to repatriate funds or could make repatriation cost-prohibitive, including, but not limited to, the imposition of currency controls and other government restrictions on repatriation in the jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, the imposition of withholding and other taxes on such payments and our ability to repatriate earnings in a tax-efficient manner.

16

In the event we are unable to generate or repatriate cash from our operating subsidiaries for any of the reasons discussed above, our overall liquidity could deteriorate and our ability to finance our obligations, including to pay dividends on or repurchase our common stock, could be adversely affected.

Credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk.

Currently, the Company's senior debt is rated A- by S&P and Baa1 by Moody's. The ratings from both S&P and Moody's currently carry a Stable outlook.

If we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. Further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures.

Our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly.

Quarterly variations in revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. These include:

•the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter;

•the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress;

•fluctuations in hiring and utilization rates and clients' ability to terminate engagements without penalty;

•seasonality due to the impact of regulatory deadlines, policy renewals and other timing factors to which our clients are subject;

•the success of our acquisitions or investments;

•macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets, particularly in the case of Mercer, where fees in its investments business and certain other business lines are derived from the value of assets under management or administration; and

•general economic conditions, since results of operations are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve.

A significant portion of our total operating expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. Therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses.

If we are unable to collect our receivables, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.

Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for the work we perform. Accounts receivable typically total about one-quarter of our total annual revenues. In most cases, we bill and collect on relatively short cycles. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could result in financial difficulties for our clients, which could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance or default on their payment obligations to us. Timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of, or be unable to collect, our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time it takes to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected.

17

Market perceptions concerning the instability of the Euro could adversely affect the Company's operating results as well as the value of the Company's Euro-denominated assets.

Concerns persist regarding the ability of certain Eurozone countries to service their debt obligations. As a result, a number of these countries have undertaken a variety of actions, such as cutting spending and raising taxes, designed to ease their future debt burdens. A potential consequence may be stagnant growth, or even recession, in the Eurozone economies and beyond. Any of these developments could lead to further contraction in the Eurozone economies, adversely affecting our operating results in the region. The Company may also face increased credit risk as our clients and financial institution counterparties in the region find themselves with reduced resources to meet their obligations. Finally, the value of the Company's assets held in the Eurozone, including cash holdings, will decline if the currency devalues. 

Global Operations

We are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations.

We do business worldwide. In 2015, 51% of the Company's total revenue was generated from operations outside the United States, and over one-half of our employees were located outside the United States. We expect to expand our non-U.S. operations further.

The geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. These include, among others, risks relating to:

•economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate;

•unexpected increases in taxes or changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws or rulings; 

•withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries;

•potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of U.S.-based costs that benefit our non-U.S. businesses;

•potential conflicts of interest that may arise as we expand the scope of our businesses and our client base;

•international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions;

•local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose;

•potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with U.S. or other sources of law; 

•potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws relating to countries such as Cuba, Iran, Russia, Sudan and Syria and anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010;

•limitations or restrictions that foreign or U.S. governments and regulators may impose on the products or services we sell or the methods by which we sell our products and services;

•limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries;

•the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;

•engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of the Company; and

•potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations.

18

Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.

Should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. In such an event, we could experience operational challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Our operations depend upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from events that could have a significant disruptive effect. We could potentially lose client or Company data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. In particular, a cyber-attack on us or a key vendor or supplier could result in a significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our information technology systems or operations, requiring us to incur significant expense to address and remediate or otherwise resolve such issues. An extended service outage may result in the loss of clients and a decline in our revenues. 

We regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. However, a disaster or other continuity event on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover from such an event, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships and legal liability.

Competitive Risks

Each of the Company's businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. If we fail to compete effectively against our competitors, some of which have lower effective tax rates, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be impacted adversely.

As a global professional services firm, the Company faces acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and expertise of our colleagues, our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, our pricing relative to competitors, our customers' ability to self-insure or use internal resources instead of consultants and our ability to respond to changes in client demand and industry conditions. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources, or may be better positioned to respond to technological and other changes in the industries we serve, and they may be able to compete more effectively. If we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be adversely impacted.

In addition, given the global breadth of our operations, the Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside the United States. Funds from the Company's non-U.S. operating subsidiaries are regularly repatriated to the United States out of annual earnings to pay dividends to stockholders, fund share repurchases and for other corporate purposes. The Company's consolidated tax rate is higher than a number of its key competitors that are domiciled outside the United States where corporate tax rates are lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The higher consolidated tax rate at which our earnings are taxed could have an adverse impact on our ability to compete with a number of our competitors.

In our Risk and Insurance Services segment, in addition to the challenges posed by capital market alternatives to traditional insurance and reinsurance, we compete intensely against a wide range of other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a global, regional, national or local scale for both client business and employee talent. We compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services or alternatives to traditional brokerage services. This competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a “syndicated” or “distributed” approach to the purchase of insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client's account.

19

In our Consulting segment, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. Through these affiliations, such competitors may be able to offer more comprehensive products and services to potential clients, which may give them a competitive advantage.

The loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business.

Across all of our businesses, our colleagues are critical to developing and retaining the client relationships performing the service on which our revenues depend. It is therefore important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. We face numerous challenges in this regard, including the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses and the general mobility of professionals in our businesses.

Losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. And, subject to applicable restrictive covenants, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services.

Our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes or to successfully implement strategic initiatives to address them could adversely affect our business and results of operations.

To remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must anticipate and respond effectively to the threat of digital disruption and other technological change. We must also identify relevant technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our product and service offerings. We may not be able to do this effectively. We have a number of strategic initiatives involving investments in technology systems and infrastructure to support our growth strategy. In addition to new platforms and systems, we are deploying new processes and many of our colleagues across the business are changing the way they perform certain roles to capture efficiencies. In some cases, we depend on key vendors and partners to provide technology and other support for our strategic initiatives. If these vendors or partners fail to perform their obligations or otherwise cease to work with us, our ability to execute on our strategic initiatives could be adversely affected. If we do not keep up with technological changes or execute well on our strategic initiatives, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted.

Consolidation in the industries we serve could adversely affect our business.

Companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. Any of these or similar possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. Guy Carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace.

Acquisitions and Dispositions

We face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses.

We have a history of making acquisitions, including a total of 92 acquisitions in the period 2009-2015 for aggregate purchase consideration of $4.2 billion. We expect that acquisitions will continue to be a key part of our business strategy. Our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify and compete for appropriate acquisition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue.

While we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. Acquisitions involve special risks, including accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology or human resources issues that could arise in connection with, or as a result of, 

20

the acquisition of the acquired company; the assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies; difficulties in integrating acquired businesses; and the inability of acquired businesses to achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. In addition, if in the future, the performance of our reporting units or an acquired business varies from our projections or assumptions, or estimates about future profitability of our reporting units or an acquired business change, the estimated fair value of our reporting units or an acquired business could change materially and could result in an impairment of goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet or in adjustments in contingent payment amounts. As of December 31, 2015, the Company's consolidated balance sheet reflected $8.9 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 49% of the Company's total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: Risk and Insurance Services, $6.5 billion and Consulting, $2.4 billion. Given the significant size of the Company's goodwill and intangible assets, an impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period.

When we dispose of businesses, we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, that we will continue to be subject to the liabilities of that business after its disposition. For example, as described in Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to our disposition of Kroll. 

RISKS RELATING TO OUR RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES SEGMENT

Our Risk and Insurance Services segment, conducted through Marsh and Guy Carpenter, represented 53% of the Company's total revenue in 2015. Our business in this segment is subject to particular risks.

Results in our Risk and Insurance Services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity.

Demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises or falls as economic growth expands or slows. This dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by Marsh and Guy Carpenter. To the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue. Also, the insurance they seek to obtain through us may be impacted by changes in their assets, property values, sales or number of employees, which may reduce our commission revenue, and they may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. Moreover, insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. Guy Carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place.

Allegations of conflicts of interest, adverse legal developments and future regulations concerning compensation we receive from insurers could have a material adverse effect on Marsh’s business, results of operations and financial condition.

The method by which insurance intermediaries are compensated has received substantial scrutiny from regulators in the past because of the potential for conflicts of interest. The potential for conflicts of interest arises when an intermediary is compensated by two parties in connection with the same or similar transactions. The vast majority of the compensation that Marsh receives is in the form of retail commissions and fees that are paid by the client or paid from premium that is paid by the client. The amount of compensation that we receive from insurance companies, separate from retail commissions and fees, has increased significantly in the last several years, both organically and through acquisition. This compensation includes payment for, among other things (i) consulting and analytics services provided to insurers and (ii) administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate). It also takes the form of contingent commission, which is paid by insurers based on the attainment of specified goals relating to Marsh's placements, particularly at Marsh & McLennan Agency and in parts of Marsh's international operations. Future changes in the regulatory environment may impact our ability to collect these revenue streams. In addition, these revenues present potential regulatory, litigation and reputational risks that may arise from alleged conflicts of interest or 

21

allegations under antitrust, competition and other laws. Adverse regulatory, legal or other developments regarding these revenues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition, expose us to negative publicity and reputational damage and harm our client, insurer or other relationships.

Volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability.

A significant portion of our Risk and Insurance Services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. Our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. The potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets.

In addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. This trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to "self-insure," the use of so-called "captive" insurers, and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs. Further, the profitability of our Risk and Insurances Services segment depends in part on our ability to be compensated, not only for insurance and reinsurance transactions, but also for the increasing analytical services and advice that we provide. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for all of our services, our margins and profitability could decline.

RISKS RELATING TO OUR CONSULTING SEGMENT

Our Consulting segment, conducted through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group, represented 47% of our total revenue in 2015. Our businesses in this segment are subject to particular risks.

Revenues for our services may decline for various reasons, including as a result of changes in economic conditions, the value of equity, debt and other asset markets, our clients’ or an industry's financial condition or government regulation.

Global economic conditions over the past several years have negatively affected businesses and financial institutions. Many of our clients, including financial institutions, corporations, government entities and pension plans, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. The evolving needs and financial circumstances of our clients may reduce demand for our services and our revenues and profitability. If the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

In addition, some segments of Mercer's investments business generate fees based upon the value of the clients’ assets under management or advisement. Changes in the value of equity, debt, currency, real estate, commodities or other asset classes could cause the value of assets under management or advisement, and the fees received by Mercer, to decline. Such changes could also cause clients to withdraw funds from Mercer’s investment business in favor of other asset management strategies. In either case, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.

Demand for many of Mercer's benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients' needs for benefits-related services. Significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of Mercer's services.

Factors affecting defined benefit pension plans and the services we provide relating to those plans could adversely affect Mercer.

Mercer currently provides corporate, multi-employer and public clients with actuarial, consulting and administration services relating to defined benefit pension plans. The nature of our work is complex. Our actuarial services involve numerous assumptions and estimates regarding future events, including interest rates used to discount future liabilities, estimated rates of return for a plan's assets, healthcare cost trends, salary projections and participants' life expectancies. Our consulting services involve the 

22

drafting and interpretation of trust deeds and other complex documentation governing pension plans. Our administration services include calculating benefits within complicated pension plan structures. Clients dissatisfied with our services have brought, and may bring, significant claims against us, particularly in the United States and the United Kingdom. In addition, a number of Mercer's clients have frozen or curtailed their defined benefit plans and have moved to defined contribution plans resulting in reduced revenue for Mercer's retirement business. These developments could adversely affect Mercer's business and operating results. 

Mercer’s investment business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-party investment managers, operational risk, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, that, if realized, could result in significant damage to our business.

Mercer’s investment business provides clients with investment consulting and investment management (referred to as "delegated solutions") services. In the investment consulting business, clients make and implement their own investment policy decisions based upon advice provided by Mercer. In its delegated solutions business, Mercer implements the client’s investment policy by engaging and overseeing independent investment managers who determine which securities to buy and sell (typically through the client’s investment in Mercer's "manager of managers" funds). 

Mercer’s investment business is subject to a number of risks, including risks related to third-parties, our operations, conflicts of interest, asset performance and regulatory compliance, which could arise in connection with these offerings. For example, Mercer’s due diligence on an investment manager may fail to uncover material deficiencies or fraud that could result in investment losses to a client. There is a risk that Mercer will fail to properly implement a client’s investment policy, which could cause an incorrect or untimely allocation of client assets among investment managers or strategies. Mercer may also be perceived as recommending certain investment managers to clients, or offering delegated solutions to an investment consulting client, solely to enhance its own compensation. Asset classes may perform poorly, or investment managers may underperform their benchmarks, due to poor market performance, negligence or other reasons, resulting in poor returns or loss of client capital. These risks, if realized, could result in significant liability and damage our business.

Our profitability may decline if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants.

The profitability of our Consulting businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants' working hours devoted to billable activities). Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including:

•our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly-hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities;

•our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature;

•our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces;

•our ability to manage attrition;

•unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements;

•the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted;

•our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities;

•the potential disruptive impact of acquisitions and dispositions; and

•general economic conditions.

If the utilization rate for our consulting professionals declines, our profit margin and profitability could decline.

23

In addition, the profitability of our Consulting businesses depends in part on the prices we are able to charge for our services. The prices we charge are affected by a number of factors, including:

•clients' perception of our ability to add value through our services;

•market demand for the services we provide;

•our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors;

•the pricing policies of our competitors;

•the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and

•general economic conditions.

If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our services, our profit margin and profitability could decline.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

There are no unresolved comments to be reported pursuant to Item 1B.

Item 2. Properties.