Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts

OVERVIEW 

Nordstrom is a leading fashion retailer offering apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men, young adults and children. We offer an extensive selection of high-quality brand-name and private label merchandise in the U.S. and Canada. We serve customers through two brands — Nordstrom full-price and Nordstrom Rack off-price. With customers increasingly engaging with Nordstrom in multiple ways, we’re focused on providing a seamless experience across stores and online. Our operations currently consist of our Nordstrom U.S. and Canada full-line stores, Nordstrom.com, Nordstrom Rack stores, Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook, Trunk Club, Jeffrey boutiques, Last Chance clearance stores and Nordstrom Local. Our customers can participate in our Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program which allows them to earn merchandise, services and other experiences. We also offer our customers a variety of payment products and services, including our Nordstrom co-branded credit cards. As we aspire to be the best fashion retailer, our customer strategy is centered on three strategic pillars: providing a differentiated product offering, delivering exceptional services and experiences, and leveraging the strength of our brand.

In 2017, net earnings were $437, or $2.59 per diluted share, which included impacts associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”), consisting of a $0.25 per share reduction related to our income tax provision and a $0.06 per share decrease for a one-time investment in our employees. We reached record sales of $15 billion in 2017. Our net sales increased 4.4%, inclusive of approximately $220 or 150 basis points from the impact of the 53rd week, while comparable sales increased 0.8% and are not inclusive of the 53rd week.

We achieved the following milestones in executing our growth plans:

•Nordstrom experienced continued positive customer trends, reflecting customer growth of 4% to 33 million customers. Additionally, 9 million customers are shopping with us in multiple ways, a 6% increase over the previous year. 

•Generational investments, which include Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook, Canada and Trunk Club, contributed $1.5 billion in sales.

•In the Nordstrom full-price business, strategic brands, including product with limited distribution and Nordstrom proprietary labels, continued to deliver outsized sales growth. 

•The Nordstrom Rack off-price business gained 6 million new customers with approximately one-third of off-price customers expected to cross-shop the full-price business over time.

•Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program customers increased by 35% to 10.5 million. Sales from Nordstrom Rewards customers represented 51% of sales, an increase from 44% in 2016.

Looking ahead to 2018, we are executing on our three strategic pillars through a series of initiatives. On April 12, our Nordstrom Men’s Store NYC is slated to open, with our Nordstrom NYC store opening in Fall 2019. We expect this store to be the biggest and best statement of the Nordstrom brand, serving as a gateway to new customers both domestically and internationally. 

We are also focusing on further integrating our digital and physical assets in our top markets in order to deliver best-in-class services and experiences to customers in those areas. We will bring our capabilities across supply chain, technology, marketing, product and services to create a digitally-connected and differentiated experience for customers to shop on their terms, starting in Los Angeles, our largest market. We believe that we will gain learnings from our experiences in the Los Angeles market that we can apply to other markets in the future.

Another key initiative for 2018 is the introduction of six Nordstrom Rack stores in Canada, where we completed our full-line store expansion plans last September. Similar to our experience in the U.S., we expect strong synergies between our full-price and off-price businesses.

Finally, we will continue to curate our assortment to provide newness and the opportunity for discovery for our customers. In our full-price business, our focus is on strategic brand growth through new launches and our existing partners. In our off-price business, leveraging our vendor partnerships enables us to offer the best brands at the best prices.

Our strategic brand partnerships and combined digital and physical assets make us uniquely positioned in the marketplace. We believe our diversified and resilient business model will continue to serve us well while creating value for our shareholders, customers and employees.

18
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our reportable segments in 2017 are Retail and Credit. We analyze our results of operations through earnings before interest and income taxes for our Retail Business and Credit, while interest expense, income taxes and earnings per share are discussed on a total Company basis.

Similar to many other retailers, Nordstrom follows the retail 4-5-4 reporting calendar, which included an extra week in the fourth quarter of 2017 (the “53rd week”). References to 2017 relate to the 53-week fiscal year ended February 3, 2018. References to 2016 and 2015 are based on a 52-week fiscal year. However, the 53rd week is not included in the comparable sales calculations.

RETAIL BUSINESS

Our Retail Business includes our Nordstrom U.S. and Canada full-line stores, Nordstrom.com, Nordstrom Rack stores, Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook, Trunk Club, Jeffrey boutiques, Last Chance clearance stores and Nordstrom Local. For purposes of discussion and analysis of our results of operations of our Retail Business, we combine our Retail segment results with revenues and expenses in the “Corporate/Other” column of Note 15: Segment Reporting in Item 8 (collectively, the “Retail Business”). Amounts in the “Corporate/Other” column include unallocated corporate expenses and assets (including unallocated assets in corporate headquarters, consisting primarily of cash, land, buildings and equipment and deferred tax assets), sales return reserves, inter-segment eliminations and other adjustments to segment results necessary for the presentation of consolidated financial results in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Certain metrics we use to evaluate the Retail Business may not be calculated in a consistent manner among industry peers. Provided below are definitions of metrics we present within our analysis of the Retail Business: 

•Comparable Sales – sales from stores that have been open at least one full year at the beginning of the year 

•Total Company comparable sales include sales from our online channels

•Gross Profit – net sales less cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs

•Inventory Turnover Rate – trailing 12-months cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by the trailing 4-quarter average inventory

•Total Sales Per Square Foot – net sales divided by weighted-average square footage

•4-wall Sales Per Square Foot – sales for Nordstrom U.S. and Canada full-line stores, Nordstrom Rack stores, Trunk Club clubhouses, Jeffrey boutiques, Last Chance clearance stores and Nordstrom Local divided by their weighted-average square footage

Summary

The following table summarizes the results of our Retail Business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  19
Retail Business Net Sales

In our ongoing effort to enhance the customer experience, we are focused on providing customers with a seamless experience across our channels. While our customers may engage with us through multiple channels, we know they value the overall Nordstrom brand experience and view us simply as Nordstrom, which is ultimately how we view our business. The following is a summary of our net sales by channel for our Retail Business:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Nordstrom full-line stores - U.S. includes Nordstrom Local.

2 Other retail includes Nordstrom Canada full-line stores, Trunk Club and Jeffrey boutiques.

3 The 53rd week is not included in comparable sales calculations.

Net Sales (2017 vs. 2016)

In 2017, total Company net sales increased 4.4%, while comparable sales increased 0.8%. During the year, we opened two Nordstrom full-line stores, including one in Canada, and 17 Nordstrom Rack stores. The 53rd week contributed approximately $220 in additional net sales. 

Full-price net sales, which consists of the U.S. full-line and Nordstrom.com channels, increased 1.4% compared with 2016, while comparable sales increased 0.4%. Also on a comparable basis, full-price sales reflected an increase in the average selling price per item sold, partially offset by a decrease in the number of items sold. Kids was the top-performing merchandise category.

Off-price net sales, which consists of Nordstrom Rack and Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook channels, increased 9.9%, compared with 2016 and comparable sales increased 2.5%. Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook had a comparable sales increase of 25.5% and now represents over 18% of off-price sales. Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 6.6%, primarily attributable to 17 new store openings in 2017, while comparable sales decreased 1.9%. On a comparable basis, the average selling price per item sold and the total number of items sold decreased at Nordstrom Rack. The top-performing Nordstrom Rack merchandise category was Beauty.

20
Net Sales (2016 vs. 2015)

In 2016, total Company net sales increased 2.9%, while comparable sales decreased 0.4%. During the year, we opened three Nordstrom full-line stores, including two in Canada, and 21 Nordstrom Rack stores. 

Full-price net sales decreased 2.3% compared with 2015, while comparable sales decreased 2.7%. Also on a comparable basis, full-price sales reflected a decrease in the total number of items sold, partially offset by an increase in the average selling price per item sold. The top-performing merchandise category was Beauty. 

Off-price net sales increased 10.9%, compared with 2015 and comparable sales increased 4.5%. Nordstromrack.com/HauteLook had comparable sales increase of 31.7% and represented 15% of off-price sales. Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 7.8%, primarily attributable to 21 new store openings in 2016. On a comparable basis, the total number of items sold increased at Nordstrom Rack, partially offset by a decrease in the average selling price per item sold. Kids was the top-performing Nordstrom Rack merchandise category.

Retail Business Gross Profit

The following table summarizes the Retail Business gross profit (“Retail GP”):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross Profit (2017 vs. 2016)

Retail GP decreased 18 basis points in 2017 when compared with 2016, primarily due to higher planned occupancy expenses related to new store growth for Nordstrom Rack and Canada. Continued focus on inventory execution led to improvements in inventory turnover rate in 2017. 

Gross Profit (2016 vs. 2015)

Our Retail GP rate was relatively flat compared with 2015, reflecting higher occupancy costs associated with Nordstrom Rack and Canada store growth, in addition to increased markdowns in the first half of the year to realign inventory to sales trends. This was offset by strong inventory execution during the remainder of the year and reduced competitive markdowns. 

Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Retail Business selling, general and administrative expenses (“Retail SG&A”) are summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (2017 vs. 2016)

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 99 basis points in 2017 and increased $349 compared with 2016 primarily due to planned technology and performance related expenses.

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses (2016 vs. 2015)

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 19 basis points in 2016 and increased $143 compared with 2015 primarily due to technology and fulfillment expenses.

Retail Business Goodwill Impairment

We recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $197 in 2016 related to Trunk Club (see Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8). 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  21
CREDIT SEGMENT

The Nordstrom credit and debit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing loyalty benefits, valuable services and payment products. We believe our credit business allows us to build deeper relationships with our customers by fully integrating the Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program with our retail business and providing better service, which in turn fosters greater customer loyalty. Nordstrom cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more than non-cardholders. Nordstrom private label credit and debit cards can be used at a majority of our U.S. retail businesses, while Nordstrom Visa credit cards also may be used for purchases outside of Nordstrom (“outside volume”). In 2017, we began offering a Canadian Nordstrom-branded Visa card, which can be used for purchases inside and outside of Nordstrom.

In October 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our U.S. Visa and private label credit card portfolio to TD. In November 2017, we sold the remaining balances which consisted of employee credit card receivables for the U.S. Visa and Nordstrom private label credit cards to TD (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). 

Summary

The table below provides a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with Note 15: Segment Reporting in Item 8:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Credit and debit card volume represents sales on the total portfolio plus applicable sales taxes.

Credit Card Revenues, net

The following is a summary of our credit card revenues, net:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Other in fiscal year 2015 consisted of $173 of finance charge revenue, $61 in interchange fees and $44 of late fees and other revenue.

Credit program revenues, net include our portion of the ongoing credit card revenue, net of credit losses, from both sold and newly generated credit card receivables pursuant to our program agreement with TD. Asset amortization and deferred revenue recognition associated with the assets and liabilities recorded as part of the transaction are also recorded in credit program revenues, net. Revenue earned under the program agreement is impacted by the credit quality of receivables, both owned and serviced, and factors such as deteriorating economic conditions, declining creditworthiness of cardholders and the success of account management and collection activities may heighten the risk of credit losses. 

Other credit card revenues included finance charge revenue, interchange fees and late fees. Finance charges represented interest earned on unpaid balances while interchange fees were earned from the use of Nordstrom Visa credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom. Late fees were assessed when a credit card account becomes past due. We continued to recognize revenue in this manner for credit card receivables retained (employee receivables) subsequent to the close of the October 2015 credit card receivable transaction until we sold our remaining receivables in November 2017.

Credit Card Revenues, net increased $82 in 2017 reflecting our strategic partnership with TD to responsibly grow our receivables and associated revenues and a reduction in amortization expense related to the sale of the credit card portfolio. Credit Card Revenues, net decreased $83 in 2016 due to the credit card receivable transaction and the new program agreement.

22
Credit Expenses 

Credit expenses consist of operational, bad debt and occupancy expenses. 

Credit Expenses (2017 vs. 2016)

Total credit expenses increased $5 in 2017 compared with 2016 due to an increase in costs associated with the Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program.

Credit Expenses (2016 vs. 2015)

Total credit expenses increased $3 in 2016 compared with 2015 primarily due to a $64 gain partially offset by $32 of expenses incurred in 2015 associated with the credit card receivables transaction and a decrease in bad debt expense subsequent to the sale of the credit card receivables in October 2015.

TOTAL COMPANY RESULTS

Interest Expense, Net

Interest expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest Expense, Net (2017 vs. 2016)

Interest expense, net increased $15 in 2017 compared with 2016 primarily due to a net interest expense charge of $18 related to the $650 debt refinancing completed in the first quarter of 2017 (see Note 7: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8).

Interest Expense, Net (2016 vs. 2015)

Interest expense, net decreased $4 in 2016 compared with 2015 primarily due to the defeasance of our $325 Series 2011-1 Class A Notes in the third quarter of 2015.

Income Tax Expense

Income tax expense is summarized in the following table:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In December 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law. Among numerous other provisions, the Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. federal corporate income tax by reducing the statutory rate from 35% to 21%, imposing a mandatory one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and enhancing and extending the option to claim accelerated depreciation on qualified property. The Tax Act also revises tax laws that will affect 2018, including, but not limited to, eliminating certain deductions for executive compensation and limiting the deduction for interest. We have reasonably estimated the effects of the Tax Act and recorded provisional amounts in our Consolidated Financial Statements as of February 3, 2018. Net earnings included $42 related to the Tax Act, which includes a provisional one-time, non-cash charge of $51 related to the revaluation of our net deferred tax assets for the change in statutory tax rate and for the impacts associated with the future limitations on executive compensation, partially offset by cash tax savings from a lower federal tax rate.As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts, which may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are recorded. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  23
The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The statutory rate in 2017 is reduced due to tax reform.

Income Tax Expense (2017 vs. 2016)

The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2017 compared with 2016 was primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $197 related to Trunk Club in the third quarter of 2016 (see Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8). Excluding the impact of the Trunk Club goodwill impairment, our effective tax rate for 2017 would have increased approximately 700 basis points compared with the prior year primarily due to a provisional, one-time tax charge related to the revaluation of net deferred tax assets as a result of the Tax Act (see Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8 for additional information).

Income Tax Expense (2016 vs. 2015)

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge of $197 related to Trunk Club. Excluding the impact of the Trunk Club goodwill impairment, our effective tax rate for 2016 would have decreased approximately 100 basis points compared with the prior year primarily due to an increase in nontaxable income.

Earnings Per Share

Earnings per share is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Earnings Per Share (2017 vs. 2016)

For 2017, diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) of $2.59 included impacts associated with the Tax Act consisting of a $0.25 per share reduction related to our income tax provision and a $0.06 per share decrease for a one-time investment in our employees. The impact of the Trunk Club goodwill impairment charge of $197 in 2016 was approximately $1.12 per share. Excluding the impact of these items, EPS decreased in 2017 compared with 2016 due to planned increases in supply chain and technology costs associated with our growth initiatives, partially offset by an increase in net sales.

Earnings Per Share (2016 vs. 2015)

The decrease in EPS for 2016 compared with 2015 was primarily due to the Trunk Club goodwill impairment charge in 2016. Excluding the goodwill impairment charge, EPS in 2016 was relatively flat compared with 2015 due to higher technology and fulfillment costs supporting multi-channel growth, offset by a decrease in shares outstanding as a result of share repurchases during the year.

Fourth Quarter Results 

The following are our results for the fourth quarters of 2017 and 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

24
Net Sales

Total Company net sales increased 8.4% in the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the same period in 2016, inclusive of approximately $220 related to the 53rd week, and comparable sales increased 2.6%. 

Full-price net sales increased 6.1% for the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the same period in 2016, while comparable sales increased 2.4%. Also on a comparable basis for the quarter, full-price sales reflected increases in the average selling price per item sold and the total number of items sold. For the fourth quarter, the top-performing merchandise categories were Kids’ and Men’s Apparel. 

Off-price net sales increased 15% for the fourth quarter of 2017, compared with the same period in 2016, while comparable sales increased 3.7%. Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 11.4%, attributable to 17 new store openings since the end of 2016. On a comparable basis, there was a decrease at Nordstrom Rack in the average selling price per item sold while the number of items sold was flat. Beauty was the top-performing Nordstrom Rack merchandise category. 

Credit Card Revenues, net

Credit card revenues, net increased $29 for the fourth quarter, compared with the same period in the prior year, reflecting our strategic partnership with TD to responsibly grow our receivables and associated revenues with new and enhanced product offerings. In addition, the impact of the 53rd week contributed approximately $10 in additional revenue.

Gross Profit

Our total Company gross profit rate decreased 44 basis points for the fourth quarter compared with the same period in 2016, primarily due to higher occupancy expenses related to new store growth for Nordstrom Rack and Canada. Merchandise margin performance was in-line with our expectations, reflecting continued strength in regular price selling trends. Ending inventory increased 6.9% over last year, generally in-line with our expectations.

Retail Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 231 basis points compared with the same period in 2016. The increase reflected higher supply chain, marketing and technology expenses associated with our growth initiatives in addition to a legal settlement gain in 2016 of $22, or approximately 50 basis points.

Credit Expenses

In the fourth quarter of 2017, total credit expenses increased $10 compared with the fourth quarter of 2016, driven primarily by increased technology costs.

Earnings Per Share

EPS for the fourth quarter of 2017 was $0.89 per diluted share, which included impacts associated with the Tax Act consisting of a $0.25 reduction related to our income tax provision and a $0.06 decrease for a one-time pre-tax investment in our employees compared with $1.15 per diluted share for the same period in 2016. Excluding the impact of the Tax Act, EPS per diluted share increased due to higher net sales.

For further information on our quarterly results in 2017 and 2016, refer to Note 16: Selected Quarterly Data in Item 8.

2018 Guidance 

Our expectations for 2018, which are shown in comparison to the 53-week fiscal 2017 where applicable, are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company’s guidance also incorporates the following assumptions:

•The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 27.5%.

•The impact of revenue recognition accounting changes is estimated to reduce EBIT by approximately $30.

•The 53rd week in fiscal 2017 creates a timing shift in the 4-5-4 calendar for fiscal 2018 that is expected to impact comparisons to the prior year. This includes the shift in the Anniversary Sale event from the second and third quarters in 2017 to primarily the second quarter in 2018. 

As a result of the evolution of our operations, our reportable segments have become progressively more integrated such that we will change our reportable segments to one reportable segment to align with how management will view the results of our operations in the first quarter of 2018, as discussed in Note 15: Segment Reporting in Item 8. These changes are not expected to impact total Company net earnings, earnings per share, financial position or cash flows. In addition, we are evaluating our legacy store based metrics, such as those calculated based on square footage, and migrating to metrics that are more relevant to how customers are engaging with us.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  25
Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) (Non-GAAP financial measure)

We believe ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital and believe ROIC is an important component of shareholders’ return over the long term. In addition, we incorporate ROIC in our executive incentive compensation measures. For the 12 fiscal months ended February 3, 2018, our ROIC increased to 9.7% compared with 8.4% for the 12 fiscal months ended January 28, 2017. Results for the prior period were negatively impacted by approximately 330 basis points due to the Trunk Club non-cash goodwill impairment charge in the third quarter of 2016 (see Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8). 

We define ROIC as our net operating profit after tax divided by our average invested capital using the trailing 12-month average. ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, return on assets, net earnings, total assets or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to ROIC is return on assets. The following is a reconciliation of the components of ROIC and return on assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Results for the 12 months ended February 3, 2018, include $42 impact related to the Tax Act. 

2 Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 4 below.

3 Balances associated with our deferred rent liability have been classified as long-term liabilities in the current period. 

4 Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base. The asset base for each month is calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 2.

5 Results for 12 fiscal months ended January 28, 2017 include the $197 impact of the Trunk Club non-cash goodwill impairment charge in the third quarter of 2016, which negatively impacted the prior period return on assets by approximately 240 basis points and ROIC by approximately 330 basis points.

26
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We strive to maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, available credit facility and potential future borrowings are sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial position, manage refinancing risk and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe that as of February 3, 2018, our existing cash and cash equivalents on-hand of $1,181, available credit facilities of $800 and potential future operating cash flows and borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives. 

The following is a summary of our cash flows by activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short-term and long-term borrowings. 

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $258 between 2017 and 2016 primarily due to the timing of tax refunds and payments. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $812 between 2016 and 2015 primarily due to $1,297 of proceeds in 2015 from the sale of our credit card receivables originated at Nordstrom (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). When removing the impact of the sale proceeds, operating cash flows increased from 2015 primarily due to improvements in working capital. 

Investing Activities

Our investing cash inflows are generally from proceeds from sales of property and equipment. Our investing cash outflows include payments for capital expenditures, including stores, supply chain improvements and information technology costs. In addition, other investing includes payments for investments in other companies, as well as proceeds from distributions or sales of these investments.

Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $107 between 2017 and 2016 primarily due to a decrease in capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $647 between 2016 and 2015 primarily due to $890 of proceeds in 2015 from the sale of our credit card receivables originated at third parties, partially offset by a decrease in capital expenditures in 2016. 

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures, net are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Deferred property incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8. We operationally view the property incentives we receive from our developers as an offset to our capital expenditures.

2 New stores, relocations and remodels include the impact of our expansion into new markets, including Nordstrom Canada and Nordstrom NYC.

3 Other capital expenditures consist of ongoing improvements to our stores in the ordinary course of business and expenditures related to various growth initiatives.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  27
Capital expenditures, net decreased $114 in 2017 compared with 2016 due to reduced spend for Canada full-line stores. Capital expenditures, net decreased $145 in 2016 compared with 2015 due to reduced spend associated with full-line relocations and new full-line stores.

The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Store openings include adjustments due to store relocations or remodels.

2 Nordstrom full-line stores include U.S. full line stores, Canada full-line stores and Nordstrom Local.

3 Other includes Trunk Club clubhouses, Jeffrey boutiques and Last Chance stores.

To date in 2018, we have opened three Nordstrom Rack stores and plan to open 9 additional Nordstrom Rack stores and the Nordstrom Men’s Store NYC, increasing our retail square footage by approximately 1%.

Our capital expenditures, net over the next five years is expected to be approximately $3,200, or 4% of net sales, compared with $3,839, or 6% of net sales, over the previous five years. Although we plan our spending in 2018 and 2019 to increase when compared with 2017 due to a new West Coast fulfillment center and Nordstrom NYC pre-opening costs, we expect reductions in the following years. We do not expect capital expenditures, net to exceed 5% of net sales in any of the next five years.

Financing Activities

The majority of our financing activities include long-term debt proceeds or payments, dividend payments and common stock repurchases. 

Net cash used in financing activities increased $87 between 2017 and 2016 primarily due to a decrease in cash book overdrafts as a result of payment timing differences. Net cash used in financing activities decreased $2,103 between 2016 and 2015 primarily due to a decrease in cash dividends paid and share repurchase activity.

Borrowing Activity 

During 2017, we issued $350 aggregate principal amount of 4.00% senior unsecured notes due March 2027 and $300 aggregate principal amount of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due January 2044. We recorded debt issuance costs incurred as a result of the issuance in other financing activities, net in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8. With the proceeds of these new notes, we retired our $650 senior unsecured notes that were due January 2018 (see Note 7: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8).

In 2015, as a condition of closing the credit card receivable transaction, we defeased $325 in secured Series 2011-1 Class A Notes in order to provide the receivables to TD free and clear. 

Dividends

In 2017, we paid dividends of $247, or $1.48 per share, compared with $256, or $1.48 per share, in 2016 and $1,185, or $6.33 per share, in 2015. Dividends paid in 2015 included a special cash dividend of $905, or $4.85 per share, in addition to our quarterly dividends totaling $1.48 per share. The special dividend was authorized by our Board of Directors on October 1, 2015, and was paid using proceeds from the sale of our credit card receivables. In determining the dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our current and projected operating performance and liquidity. Our dividend payout ratio target range is 30% to 35% and is calculated as our dividend payments divided by net earnings.

In February 2018, subsequent to year end, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.37 per share, which will be paid on March 20, 2018.

28
Share Repurchases

In October 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $1,000 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2017. There was $409 of unused capacity upon program expiration. In February 2017, our Board of Directors authorized an additional program to repurchase up to $500 of our outstanding common stock, through August 31, 2018. During the first quarter of 2017, we repurchased 4.6 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $206. Since June 2017, when we suspended the February 2017 program, we did not and do not plan to repurchase shares while the Group explores the possibility of a Going Private Transaction. We had $414 remaining in share repurchase capacity as of February 3, 2018. The actual timing, price, manner and amounts of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions and applicable SEC rules. 

Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and when used in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides investors with a meaningful analysis of our ability to generate cash from our business. For the year ended February 3, 2018, we had Free Cash Flow of $383 compared with $560 for the year ended January 28, 2017.

Free Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, operating cash flows or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Free Cash Flow is net cash provided by operating activities. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Capacity and Commitments

As of February 3, 2018, we had total short-term borrowing capacity of $800 under our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“revolver”) that expires in April 2020. Under the terms of our revolver, we pay a variable rate of interest and a commitment fee based on our debt rating. The revolver is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes. We have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $200, to a total of $1,000, provided that we obtain written consent from the lenders.

Our $800 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing available liquidity under the revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. 

As of February 3, 2018, we had no issuances outstanding under our commercial paper program and no borrowings outstanding under our revolver.

Our wholly owned subsidiary in Puerto Rico maintains a $52 unsecured borrowing facility to support our expansion into that market. The facility expires in Fall 2018 and borrowings on this facility incur interest based upon the LIBOR plus 1.275% per annum and also incurred a fee based on any unused commitment. As of February 3, 2018, we had $48 outstanding on this facility.

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate our international payments. As of February 3, 2018, we have $8 available and none outstanding under the trade letter of credit and $15 available and $2 outstanding under the standby letter of credit.

Plans for our Nordstrom NYC store, which we currently expect to open in 2019, ultimately include owning a condominium interest in a mixed-use tower and leasing certain nearby properties. As of February 3, 2018, we had approximately $289 of fee interest in land, which is expected to convert to the condominium interest once the store is constructed. We have committed to make future installment payments based on the developer meeting pre-established construction and development milestones. In the event that this project is not completed, the opening may be delayed and we may be subject to future losses or capital commitments in order to complete construction or to monetize our investment in the land. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  29
Impact of Credit Ratings

Under the terms of our revolver, any borrowings we may enter into will accrue interest for Euro-Dollar Rate Loans at a floating base rate tied to LIBOR, for Canadian Dealer Offer Rate Loans at a floating rate tied to CDOR, and for Base Rate Loans at the highest of: (i) the Euro-Dollar rate plus 100 basis points, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points and (iii) the prime rate.

The rate depends upon the type of borrowing incurred, plus in each case an applicable margin. This applicable margin varies depending upon the credit ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt. At the time of this report, our long-term unsecured debt ratings, outlook and resulting applicable margin were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt improve, the applicable margin associated with any such borrowings may decrease, resulting in a lower borrowing cost under this facility. Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may increase, resulting in a higher borrowing cost under this facility.

Debt Covenants

The revolver requires that we maintain an adjusted debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent (“EBITDAR”) leverage ratio of no more than four times (see the following additional discussion of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR). As of February 3, 2018, we were in compliance with this covenant. 

30
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating and operate with an efficient capital structure. In evaluating our debt levels, this measure provides a reflection of our credit worthiness that could impact our credit rating and borrowing costs. We also have a debt covenant that requires an adjusted debt to EBITDAR leverage ratio of no more than four times. As of February 3, 2018, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.6, and as of January 28, 2017, it was 2.4.

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, debt to net earnings, net earnings, debt or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is debt to net earnings. The following is a reconciliation of the components of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR and debt to net earnings:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 The components of Adjusted Debt are as of February 3, 2018 and January 28, 2017, while the components of EBITDAR are for the 12 months ended February 3, 2018 and January 28, 2017.

2 Based upon the estimated lease liability as of the end of the period, calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease or we had purchased the property.

3 Non-cash acquisition-related charges for the 12 months ended January 28, 2017 included the goodwill impairment charge of $197 related to Trunk Club. 

4 Results for the period ended January 28, 2017 include the $197 impact of the Trunk Club goodwill impairment charge, which approximates 280 basis points. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  31
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of February 3, 2018. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $1,732 as of February 3, 2018, payable over the remaining life of the debt.

The operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for operating expenses that are required by most of our lease agreements. Such expenses, which include common area charges, real estate taxes and other executory costs, totaled $121 in 2017, $112 in 2016 and $97 in 2015. In addition, some of our leases require additional rental payments based on a percentage of our sales, referred to as “percentage rent.” Percentage rent, which is also excluded from the obligations in the table above, was $11 in 2017, $12 in 2016 and $13 in 2015.

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments. Capital expenditure commitments include our Nordstrom Men’s Store NYC and Nordstrom NYC. 

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and other liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $34, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

In October 2015, we completed the sale of a substantial majority of our U.S. Visa and private label credit card portfolio to TD. In November 2017, we sold the remaining balances which consisted of employee credit card receivables for the U.S. Visa and Nordstrom private label credit cards to TD (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). Pursuant to the program agreement with TD, we offer and administer our Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program and perform other account servicing functions. Credit card receivables serviced under this contract are $3,098 as of February 3, 2018. 

Other than items noted in the paragraph above, in addition to operating leases entered into in the normal course of business and the development of our Nordstrom Men’s Store NYC and Nordstrom NYC, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements during 2017.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.

Revenue Recognition

We recognize sales revenue net of estimated returns and excluding sales taxes. Revenue from sales to customers shipped directly from our stores and fulfillment centers, which includes shipping revenue when applicable, is recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, there were no significant changes in customer return behavior and we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had a $10 impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 3, 2018.

32
Merchandise Inventories

Merchandise inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories is determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. The value of our inventory on the balance sheet is then reduced by a charge to cost of sales for retail inventory markdowns taken on the selling floor. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross profit.

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Our obsolescence reserve contains uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence reserve. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would have had a $1 impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 3, 2018.

Goodwill

We review our goodwill annually for impairment or when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may exceed the fair value. We perform this evaluation at the reporting unit level, comprised of the principal business units within our Retail segment, through the application of a two-step fair value test. The first step compares the carrying value of the reporting unit to its estimated fair value, which is based on the expected present value of future cash flows (income approach), comparable public companies and acquisitions (market approach) or a combination of both. If fair value is lower than the carrying value, then a second step is performed to quantify the amount of the impairment. 

As part of our impairment testing, we utilize certain assumptions and apply judgment regarding a number of factors. Significant estimates in the market approach include identifying similar companies and acquisitions with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return of investment, and assessing comparable earnings or revenue multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit. Assumptions in the income approach include future cash flows for the business, future growth rates and discount rates. Estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model or changes in operating performance. For Nordstrom.com, Jeffrey and HauteLook, the fair values substantially exceeded carrying values and therefore we had no material goodwill impairment in 2017, 2016 or 2015. A 10% change in the fair value of any of these reporting units would not have had an impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 3, 2018.

There were no goodwill impairment charges related to Trunk Club in 2017 or 2015. In 2016, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $197 resulting from changes to the long-term operating plan that reflected lower expectations for growth and profitability than previous expectations (see Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8: Fair Value Measurements in Item 8).

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

When facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying values of long-lived assets, including buildings, equipment and amortizable intangible assets, may be impaired, we perform an evaluation of recoverability by comparing the carrying values of the net assets to their related projected undiscounted future cash flows, in addition to other quantitative and qualitative analyses. 

Land, property and equipment are grouped at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash flows when assessing impairment. Cash flows for our retail store assets are identified at the individual store level, while our intangible assets associated with HauteLook and Trunk Club are identified at their respective reporting unit levels. The assets recorded in connection with the credit card receivable transaction are individually evaluated against the anticipated cash flows under the program agreement (see Note 2: Credit Card Receivable Transaction in Item 8). 

Our estimates are subject to uncertainties and may be impacted by various external factors such as economic conditions and market competition. While we believe the inputs and assumptions utilized in our analyses of future cash flows are reasonable, events or circumstances may change, which could cause us to revise these estimates.

Stock-Based Compensation Expense

We grant stock-based awards under our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan (“2010 Plan”), 2002 Nonemployee Director Stock Incentive Plan (“2002 Plan”) and Trunk Club Value Creation Plan (“VCP”), and employees may purchase our stock at a discount under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (“ESPP”). We predominantly recognize stock-based compensation expense related to stock-based awards at their estimated grant date fair value, recorded on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Compensation expense for certain award holders is accelerated based upon age and years of service. The total compensation expense is reduced by actual forfeitures as they occur over the vesting period of the awards.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  33
We estimate the grant date fair value of stock options using the Binomial Lattice option valuation model. Stock-based compensation expense related to the VCP is based on the grant date fair value of the payout scenario we believe is probable using the Black-Scholes valuation model and is recognized on an accelerated basis due to performance criteria and graded vesting features of the plan. The fair value of restricted stock is determined based on the number of shares granted and the quoted price of our common stock on the date of grant, less the estimated present value of dividends over the vesting period. Performance share units granted prior to 2016 are classified as liabilities and revalued using the quoted price of our common stock as of each reporting date. Performance share units granted in 2016 and beyond are classified as equity and the fair value is determined using the Monte-Carlo valuation model.

Calculating the grant date fair value of stock-based awards is based on certain assumptions and requires judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, forfeiture rates, expected life and performance criteria. A 10% change in stock-based compensation expense would have had a $4 impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 3, 2018.

Income Taxes

We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Using this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. We routinely evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit of our deferred tax assets and may record a valuation allowance if, based on all available evidence, it is determined that some portion of the tax benefit will not be realized.

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount that we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $31 as of February 3, 2018, and $32 as of January 28, 2017. Interest and penalties related to income tax matters are classified as a component of income tax expense.

Income taxes require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred taxes, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2017 or 2016.

In December 2017, the Tax Act was signed into law. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Act and interpret any additional guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS and other standard-setting bodies, we may make adjustments to the provisional amounts, which may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are recorded (see Note 13: Income Taxes in Item 8 for additional information).

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

See Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements and the impact these standards are anticipated to have on our results of operations, liquidity or capital resources.

34
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.