Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Financial Instruments, Other Financial Instruments, and Derivative Commodity Instruments. Financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, a publicly traded equity security, cost-method equity investments, mutual funds, insurance contracts and related deferred compensation plan liabilities, accounts payable and debt obligations. Except for our outstanding convertible notes and Senior Notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. As of September 28, 2013, we have $1.725 billion of principal of convertible notes outstanding, which are comprised of our 2007 Notes with a principal of $405.0 million, our 2010 Notes with a principal of $450.0 million, our 2012 Notes with a principal of $500.0 million, and our 2013 Notes with a principal of $370.0 million. The convertible notes are recorded net of the unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of our 2007 Notes, 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes as of September 28, 2013 was approximately $405.0 million, $510.8 million, $518.8 million and $385.7 million, respectively. The fair value of our Senior Notes was approximately $1.05 billion.  

100  

Table of Contents 

 Amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement aggregating $2.24 billion aggregate principal as of September 28, 2013 are subject to variable rates of interest based on current market rates, and as such, we believe the carrying amount of these obligations approximates fair value.  

Primary Market Risk Exposures. Our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. We incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our convertible notes, Senior Notes and Credit Agreement. The convertible notes and Senior Notes have fixed interest rates. Borrowings under our Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, initially, with respect to all loans made under Term Loan A (i) at the Base Rate plus 1.00% per annum, or (ii) at the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate (i.e., the Libor rate) plus 2.00%, and with respect to loans made under Term Loan B: (i) at the Base Rate, with a floor of 2.00%, plus 1.75%, or (ii) at the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate, with a floor of 1.00% plus 2.75%.  

As of September 28, 2013, there was $2.24 billion of aggregate principal outstanding under the Credit Agreement comprised of $950.0 million under the Term Loan A facility and $1.29 billion under the Term Loan B facility. Since these debt obligations are variable rate instruments, our interest expense associated with these instruments is subject to change. A 10% adverse movement (increase in Libor rate) would increase annual interest expense by less than $1 million due to the low current interest rate environment and the floor on our Term Loan B facility.  

The return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors.  

We conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the United States as well as manufacturing facilities in Costa Rica, Germany, England, Canada and China. The expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our Costa Rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in U.S. dollars. Our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the Euro, U.S. dollar and Renminbi. Fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency.  

We believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the Euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against the Euro. Our expenses, denominated in Euros, are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens. However, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, we incurred net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $0.5 million, $0.8 million and $(0.7) million, respectively.  

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data