PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

Overview  

We are a leading developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems and surgical products with an emphasis on serving the healthcare needs of women. Our core business units are focused on diagnostics, breast health, GYN surgical and skeletal health. We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service forces and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives.  

We offer a wide range of diagnostic products which are used primarily to aid in the diagnosis of human diseases and screen donated human blood. Our molecular diagnostics products include our Aptima family of assays based on our Transcription-Mediated-Amplification, or TMA, technology, our Cervista products based on our proprietary Invader chemistry and our advanced instrumentation (Panther, Tigris and HTA). The Aptima family of assays is used to detect the infectious microorganisms that cause the common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, chlamydia and gonorrhea, certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, and Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. Our Invader chemistry is comprised of molecular diagnostic reagents used for a variety of DNA and RNA analysis applications, including our Cervista HPV high risk, or HR, and Cervista HPV 16/18 products to assist in the diagnosis of HPV, as well as other products to diagnose cystic fibrosis, cardiovascular risk and other diseases. Our diagnostics products also include the ThinPrep System, which is primarily used in cytology applications such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test, which assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. In blood screening, we develop and manufacture the Procleix family of assays, which are used to detect human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, the hepatitis C virus, or HCV, the hepatitis B virus, or HBV, the West Nile virus, or WNV, the hepatitis A virus, or HAV, and Parvovirus, in donated human blood. These blood screening products are marketed worldwide by our blood screening collaborator, Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Inc., or Novartis, under Novartis’ trademarks.  

Our breast health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, breast coils, computer-aided detection, or CAD, for mammography and minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, breast biopsy guidance systems, breast imaging comfort pads, and breast brachytherapy products. Our most advanced breast imaging platform, Dimensions, utilizes a new technology called tomosynthesis to produce 3D images, as well as conventional 2D full field digital mammography images.  

Our GYN surgical products include our NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System, or NovaSure, and our MyoSure Hysteroscopic Tissue Removal System, or MyoSure. The NovaSure system involves a trans-cervical procedure for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. The MyoSure system is a tissue removal device that is designed to provide incision-less removal of fibroids and polyps within the uterus.  

Our skeletal health products include dual-energy X-ray bone densitometry systems, an ultrasound-based osteoporosis assessment product, and our Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging products.  

Acquisition of Gen-Probe Incorporated  

On August 1, 2012, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated April 29, 2012, referred to as the merger agreement, we completed our acquisition of Gen-Probe. Under the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, at the effective time and as a result of the acquisition, each share of common stock of Gen-Probe issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the acquisition was cancelled and converted into the right to receive $82.75 in cash. In addition, all outstanding restricted shares, restricted stock units, and performance shares and all stock options granted prior to February 8, 2012 were cancelled and  

5  

Table of Contents 

 converted into the merger consideration based upon an $82.75 per share price. Stock options granted after February 8, 2012 were cancelled and converted into stock options to acquire shares of Hologic common stock determined by a conversion formula defined in the merger agreement. The total purchase price was approximately $3.97 billion, which was funded through available cash and financing consisting of senior secured credit facilities and Senior Notes discussed below.  

Concurrent with the closing of the Gen-Probe acquisition, on August 1, 2012, we and certain domestic subsidiaries entered into a credit and guaranty agreement with Goldman Sachs Bank USA in its capacity as administrative and collateral agent, and the lenders party thereto, pursuant to which we obtained senior secured financing totaling $2.8 billion, consisting of term loans in the aggregate principal amount of $2.5 billion and an undrawn $300 million revolving credit facility. Also on August 1, 2012, we completed a private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our 6.25% Senior Notes due August 1, 2020.  

Gen-Probe, headquartered in San Diego, California, is a leader in molecular diagnostics products and services that are used primarily to diagnose human diseases and screen donated human blood. Gen-Probe’s results of operations are reported within our Diagnostics segment from the date of acquisition.  

Available Information  

Our Internet website address is http://www.hologic.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. These SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC.  

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding Hologic and other issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Internet website address is http://www.sec.gov.  

Products  

We view our operations and manage our business in four principal reporting segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. Financial information concerning these segments is provided in Note 15 to our audited consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.  

Diagnostic Products  

Aptima Family of Assays  

Our Aptima family of assays includes the Aptima Combo 2 assay for the simultaneous detection of Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the infectious microorganisms that cause chlamydia and gonorrhea, respectively, the standalone Aptima CT and Aptima GC assays for the detection of Chlamydia trachomatis and Neisseria gonorrhoeae, respectively, the Aptima HPV assay for the detection of 14 sub-types of high-risk HPV associated with cervical cancer, the Aptima HPV 16 18/45 Genotype assay and the Aptima Trichomonas assay for the detection of Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. Our Aptima products integrate our patented TMA technology, target capture technology, and our patented hybridization protection assay, or HPA, and dual kinetic assay, or DKA, technologies, to produce highly refined amplification assays that increase assay performance, improve laboratory efficiency and reduce laboratory costs. Each of these technologies is described in greater detail below.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Target Capture/Nucleic Acid Extraction Technology. The detection of target organisms that are present in small numbers in a large-volume clinical sample requires that target organisms be concentrated to a detectable level. One way to accomplish this is to isolate the particular nucleic acid of interest by binding it to a solid support. This support, with the target bound to it, can then be separated from the original sample. We refer to such techniques as “target capture.” We have developed target capture techniques to immobilize nucleic acids on magnetic beads by the use of a “capture probe” that attaches to the bead and to the target nucleic acid. We use a magnetic separation device to concentrate the target by drawing the magnetic beads to the sides of the sample tube, while the remainder of the sample is washed away and removed. When used in conjunction with our patented amplification methods, target capture techniques concentrate the nucleic acid target(s) and also remove materials in the sample that might otherwise interfere with amplification.  

Transcription-Mediated Amplification (TMA) Technology. The goal of amplification technologies is to produce millions of copies of the target nucleic acid sequences that are present in samples in small numbers. These copies can then be detected using DNA probes. Amplification technologies can yield results in only a few hours versus the several days or weeks required for traditional culture methods. TMA is a transcription-based amplification system that uses two different enzymes to drive the process. The first enzyme is a reverse transcriptase that creates a double-stranded DNA copy from an RNA or DNA template. The second enzyme, an RNA polymerase, makes thousands of copies of the complementary RNA sequence, known as the “RNA amplicon,” from the double-stranded DNA template. Each RNA amplicon serves as a new target for the reverse transcriptase and the process repeats automatically, resulting in an exponential amplification of the original target that can produce over a billion copies of amplicon in less than 30 minutes.  

Hybridization Protection Assay (HPA) and Dual Kinetic Assay (DKA) Technologies. With our patented HPA technology, we have simplified testing, further increased test sensitivity and specificity, and increased convenience. In the HPA process, the acridinium ester, or AE, molecule is protected within the double-stranded helix that is formed when the probe binds to its specific target. Prior to activating the AE molecule, known as “lighting off,” a chemical is added that destroys the AE molecule on any unhybridized probes, leaving the label on the hybridized probes largely unaffected. When the “light off” or detection reagent is added to the specimen, only the label attached to the hybridized probe is left to produce a signal indicating that the target organism’s DNA or RNA is present. All of these steps occur in a single tube and without any wash steps, which were required as part of conventional probe tests. Our DKA technology uses two types of AE molecules—one that “flashes” and another one that “glows.” By using DKA technology, we have created nucleic acid test, or NAT, assays that can detect two separate targets simultaneously.  

Instrumentation. We have developed and continue to develop instrumentation and software designed specifically for performing certain of our diagnostic assays, including the Aptima family of assays and the Procleix family of assays in the blood screening market. We also provide technical support and instrument service to maintain these instrument systems in the field. By placing our proprietary instrumentation in laboratories and hospitals, we can establish a platform for future sales of our diagnostic assays.  

Our instrumentation includes the Tigris system, an integrated, fully-automated testing instrument for high-volume laboratories which is approved for use with a number of our Aptima and Procleix assays, the Panther instrument system, an integrated, fully automated testing instrument for lower-volume laboratories, and our semi-automated direct tube sampling, or DTS, instruments which are used to run a number of infectious disease and blood screening assays.  

Our Panther system was CE-marked and launched in Europe for diagnostic use in the fourth quarter of 2010 and was granted a medical device license by Health Canada to run our Aptima Combo 2 assay in Canada in August 2011. In addition, our Panther system was CE-marked for use in the blood screening market in June 2012 and we currently offer the Ultrio Elite and WNV assays on the Panther system in countries where the CE-mark is recognized. We also sell Panther systems to Roka Bioscience, Inc. for use in certain industrial markets. In addition, we are working on development programs to add real-time PCR capabilities to a new instrument system  

7  

Table of Contents 

 that also incorporates the capabilities of our first-generation Panther system and to develop a new, standalone instrument to further automate molecular testing from liquid-based cytology specimens.  

In fiscal 2012, we received FDA clearance to use our Aptima Combo 2 assay for the detection of chlamydia and gonorrhea on our Panther system in May 2012. This was followed in fiscal 2013 by FDA approval to run our Aptima HPV 16 18/45 Genotype Assay on our Tigris system in October 2012, FDA clearance to run our Aptima assay for Trichomonas vaginalis on our Panther system in January 2013 and FDA approval to run our Aptima HPV assay on our Panther system in July 2013. In addition, in November 2013, we received FDA approval to use our Aptima HPV 16 18/45 Genotype Assay on our Panther system.  

Invader Chemistry Platform  

Our Invader chemistry platform is a DNA probe-based system for highly sensitive detection of specific nucleic acid sequences. It is an accurate and specific method for detecting single-base pair changes, insertions, deletions, gene copy number, infectious agents, and gene expression. Invader reactions can be performed using genomic DNA, amplified RNA, polymerase chain reaction, or PCR or real-time PCR products.  

Cervista HPV Tests. HPV is the most common sexually transmitted disease in the U.S. and is recognized as the cause of most cervical cancer. We offer two HPV tests using the Invader chemistry: the Cervista HPV HR and the Cervista HPV 16/18. These tests employ our proprietary Invader technology and are performed out of the ThinPrep PreservCyt collection vial. Cervista HPV HR is a qualitative test used for the detection of DNA from fourteen high-risk HPV types responsible for most cervical disease. The Cervista HPV 16/18 test is a qualitative test used for the detection of DNA from HPV types 16 and 18, the types that cause approximately 70% of cervical cancer.  

Both our Aptima HPV and our Cervista HPV HR tests have been approved for triaging women with undetermined cervical cytology and co-testing with cervical cytology for women 30 years and older. Our Genotype assays have been approved to be used adjunctively with our Aptima HPV and Cervista HPV HR tests in combination with cervical cytology to assess the presence of high risk HPV types, as well as to triage women with undetermined cervical cytology results along with our HPV tests. Our Aptima and Cervista HPV tests are targeted to meet a broad spectrum of customer needs across both centralized and decentralized segments of the clinical laboratory markets.  

In December 2011, we received FDA approval of our Cervista High Throughput Automation System, which we refer to as the HTA system, for use with our Cervista HPV HR test. The Cervista HTA system automates the DNA extraction and detection steps of the Cervista HPV HR test and allows for significantly less manual time during processing. This product was launched in January 2012.  

Other Invader Products. Other current clinical diagnostic offerings based upon our Invader chemistry include products to assist in the diagnosis of cystic fibrosis, cardiovascular risk and other diseases.  

In addition, we sell products to the agricultural biotechnology market. We also have an out-licensing and partner program in areas outside of our core business that allows us to further realize the value of our Invader chemistry platform.  

ThinPrep System  

The ThinPrep System is the most widely used method for cervical cancer screening in the United States. If detected in the pre-cancerous stage, most cervical cancer cases are preventable. The ThinPrep System consists of any one or more of the following: the ThinPrep 2000 Processor, ThinPrep 3000 Processor, ThinPrep 5000 Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, and related reagents, filters and other supplies, such as the ThinPrep Pap Test and our proprietary ThinPrep PreservCyt Solution. Our ThinPrep 5000 Processor has been launched for full use, as described below, outside of the U.S. but is limited to non-gynecological screening samples in the U.S.  

8  

Table of Contents 

The ThinPrep Process. The ThinPrep process begins with the patient’s cervical sample being obtained by the physician using a cervical sampling device that, rather than being smeared on a microscope slide as in a conventional Pap smear, is inserted into a vial filled with our proprietary PreservCyt Solution. This enables most of the patient’s cell samples to be preserved before the cells can be damaged by air drying. The ThinPrep specimen vial is then labeled and sent to a laboratory equipped with a ThinPrep Processor for slide preparation. At the laboratory, the ThinPrep specimen vial is inserted into a ThinPrep Processor, a proprietary sample preparation device, which automates the process of preparing cervical slides for staining and microscopic examination.  

In the case of manual screening, the cytotechnologist screens each Pap test slide with a microscope to first determine the adequacy of the slide and then to examine the entire slide to differentiate diseased or abnormal cells from normal cells. With the ThinPrep Imaging System, the screening process has been automated to combine the power of computer imaging technology and human interpretive skills. Prior to human review, the ThinPrep Imaging System rapidly scans and locates areas of interest for review. By directing the cytotechnologist to areas of interest on a slide, the system may increase a cytology laboratory’s screening productivity and diagnostic accuracy. In Europe, where laboratories tend to be smaller and process fewer tests, we also offer a lower throughput imaging device to assist in the detection of cervical cancer.  

Additional Applications. In addition to serving as a replacement for the conventional Pap smear, the ThinPrep System can also be used for non-gynecological cytology screening applications including fine-needle aspiration specimens (e.g., breast, thyroid, lung or liver), body fluids (e.g., urine, pleural fluid, ascitic fluid or pericardial fluid), respiratory specimens (e.g., sputum or brushing of respiratory tracts) and ancillary testing (e.g., cell blocks, immunocytochemistry or special stains).  

Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test  

The Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test is a patented single-use disposable test used to determine a woman’s risk of pre-term birth by detecting the presence of a specific protein, fetal fibronectin, in vaginal secretions during pregnancy. This test is approved by the FDA for use in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. The test utilizes a single-use, disposable cassette and is analyzed on our patented instrument, the TLI IQ System.  

Procleix Family of Assays for Blood Screening  

We develop and manufacture the Procleix family of assays, which are marketed and sold worldwide by Novartis, our blood screening collaborator, under Novartis’ trademarks. The Procleix family of assays includes the Ultrio and Ultrio Plus assays which simultaneously detect HIV-1, HCV and HBV in donated blood, plasma, organs and tissues, the Ultrio Elite assay which simultaneously detects HIV-1, HIV type-2, or HIV-2, HBV and HCV in donated blood, plasma, organs and tissues, the WNV assay which detects West Nile Virus in donated blood, plasma, organs and tissues and the HAV and Parvo assays which detects HAV and Parvo viruses in donated blood, plasma, organs and tissues.  

In June 2012, our Ultrio Elite blood screening assay for the detection of HIV-1, HIV-2, HBV and HCV received a CE Mark, which authorizes the sale and marketing of the Ultrio Elite assay in the European Union. The Ultrio Elite assay runs on our Panther instrument system.  

On November 11, 2013, Novartis announced that it is selling its blood screening business to Grifols. Grifols had previously been a customer of our collaboration with Novartis. As announced, the transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of calendar 2014. Upon the consummation of the acquisition, Grifols will replace Novartis as our blood screening collaborator.  

Infectious Disease and Virology Products  

We offer a number of products in the infectious disease space, including a number of assays for the detection of certain respiratory and gastrointestinal diseases. Our infectious disease products include multiplex real-time PCR assays to detect and differentiate various influenza types and viruses, a rapid assay for the direct detection of Streptococcus pyogenes in one hour from a throat swab and an amplified TMA assay to detect the Tuberculosis pathogen.  

9  

Table of Contents 

In virology, NAT assays can be used to detect viral DNA or RNA in a patient sample. These tests can be qualitative, meaning that the tests simply provide a “yes-no” answer for the presence or absence of the virus, or quantitative, meaning that the test determines the quantity of virus in the patient sample. We offer Aptima assays for the qualitative detection of HIV-1 and HCV. In addition, we sell analyte specific reagents for quantitative HCV testing in the United States through our collaboration with Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Inc., or Siemens. We are developing quantitative viral assays to run on our Panther instrument system.  

Prostate Oncology  

The field of NAT-based cancer diagnostics is an emerging market as new markers that correlate to the presence of cancer continue to be discovered. As a result of our acquisition of Gen-Probe, we have exclusive worldwide diagnostic rights to the PCA3 gene from DiagnoCure, Inc. In addition, in April 2006, we entered into a license agreement with the University of Michigan for exclusive worldwide rights to develop diagnostic tests for genetic translocations that have been shown in preliminary studies to be highly specific for prostate cancer tissue.  

In November 2006, we received a CE Mark for our Progensa PCA3 assay. This gene-based test is designed to detect the over-expression of PCA3 mRNA in urine. In February 2012, the FDA approved our Progensa PCA3 assay for sale and marketing in the United States. The Progensa PCA3 assay is to be used, in conjunction with other patient information, to help guide repeat biopsy decisions for men who have had one or more prior negative biopsies. The test has been approved for use on our semi-automated DTS instrument systems.  

Transplant Diagnostics  

As a result of our acquisition of Gen-Probe, we had a transplant diagnostics business, which we referred to as our LIFECODES business, comprised of our human leukocyte antigen, or HLA, products and related assays. At the time of the Gen-Probe acquisition, we designated this business as an asset-held-for-sale. On March 22, 2013, we completed the sale of LIFECODES to Immucor, Inc. for $85.0 million in cash, subject to adjustment, plus a contingent payment of an additional $10.0 million if certain future revenue results are achieved. We recorded revenues of $23.2 million and $7.3 million in fiscal 2013 and 2012, respectively, from the LIFECODES business.  

Breast Health Products  

Full Field Digital Mammography System  

Our full field digital mammography systems are based on our proprietary DirectRay digital detector, which employs an amorphous selenium photoconductor to directly convert x-ray photons into an electrical signal. No intensifying screens or additional processes are required to capture and convert the x-ray energy, enabling high imaging resolution and contrast sensitivity. Other digital technologies employ an indirect two-step process by first converting x-ray energy into light and then converting the light energy into electrical signals. We believe that digital x-ray imaging technologies that require light conversion may compromise image resolution, lessening detection capability.  

Dimensions: Breast Tomosynthesis  

Our Dimensions platform includes a mammography gantry incorporating our DirectRay digital detector capable of performing both 2D and 3D image acquisition and display. When operating in 3D mode, the system acquires a series of low dose x-ray images taken in a scanning motion at various angles. The images are mathematically processed into a series of small slices, revealing breast tissue from a 3D perspective. We believe that by allowing the clinician to review breast tissue in three dimensional space, the more subtle architecture of various types of suspicious lesions may be able to be better interpreted, which may ultimately increase cancer  

10  

Table of Contents 

 detection and reduce unnecessary patient callbacks. In the U.S., our Dimensions product had previously been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for providing conventional 2D images. In February 2011, we received approval from the FDA to enable the 3D tomosynthesis capability of our Dimensions system. Our clinical results for the approval demonstrated that conventional 2D digital mammography with the addition of 3D tomosynthesis is superior to 2D digital mammography alone for both screening and diagnostics.  

C-View System  

In November 2011, we announced the commercial release of our C-View product, which is a 2D image that is mathematically synthesized from the data within a 3D tomosynthesis exam. Our current recommended clinical practice involves what we refer to as a “combo” exam involving a tomosynthesis exam and a conventional digital 2D exam, but performed under the same breast compression at a slightly longer compression time than a conventional mammogram. The C-View product allows for the mathematical construction of a 2D image from the 3D data, without the need for an actual 2D exposure. Elimination of the 2D exposure reduces the breast compression time and patient dose compared to the current combo exam. Our C-View software is approved for sale throughout the European Economic Area and in other countries recognizing the CE Mark. In May of 2013, the FDA approved the use of the C-View software with our Dimensions 3D system.  

Selenia  

The Selenia product family is our original full field digital mammography platform. The open architecture of the system’s design provides for full integration with existing enterprise Picture Archiving and Communications Systems, or PACS, and Radiology Information Systems, or RIS. The Selenia product family includes the Selenia base configuration, the Selenia S configuration (a screening-only configuration), the Selenia Performance (a lower cost alternative to the Selenia base configuration) and the Selenia Encore (refurbished units), each of which offer customers varying performance capabilities and product costs.  

Healthcome Mammography Products  

In July 2011, we completed our acquisition of Beijing Healthcome Technology Company, Ltd., or Healthcome, a privately-held manufacturer of medical equipment located in Beijing, China. Healthcome manufactures analog mammography products targeted to lower tier hospital segments in China. Additionally, Healthcome had been collaborating with our research and development team to integrate our selenium digital detector with the Healthcome mammography system. On December 21, 2011, we received State Food and Drug Administration, or SFDA, approval in China for our Serenity digital mammography system. We began selling this product in China in the second quarter of fiscal 2012, and intend to commercialize it throughout Asia and potentially other emerging markets in the future.  

Screen-Film Mammography Systems  

Our screen-film mammography systems include our LORAD M-IV system. These systems are less expensive than our digital systems and offer customers varying performance capabilities and product costs.  

SecurView Workstation  

The images captured by digital mammography systems are typically transmitted electronically for review by a radiologist at a work station. To this end, we developed the SecurViewDX breast imaging softcopy workstation, approved for interpretation of digital mammograms from most vendors as well as images from other diagnostic breast modalities. To complement this product, we also developed the SecurViewRT workstation, a technologist workstation enabling bi-directional exchange of electronic communications between the reviewer and the technologist.  

11  

Table of Contents 

CAD (Computer Aided Detection) Systems  

We have developed CAD software tools for our mammography products and visualization tools for MRI. Mammography CAD is used by radiologists as “a second pair of eyes” when reading a woman’s mammogram. Use of this technology provides reviewers with the potential to detect findings that might otherwise be overlooked during the review process, thus potentially increasing cancer detection. We also market an MRI visualization product, which manages the data set from an MRI procedure, designed to improve data workflow for the physician and provide analytical tools to aid in the identification and evaluation of the extent of disease.  

Stereotactic Breast Biopsy Systems  

We provide clinicians with the flexibility of choosing upright or prone systems for breast biopsy by offering three minimally invasive stereotactic breast biopsy guidance systems, the MultiCare Platinum dedicated, prone breast biopsy table, the StereoLoc II upright attachment, and the Affirm upright attachment. The StereoLoc II attachment is used in conjunction with our LORAD M-IV series of screen-film mammography systems and our Selenia full field digital mammography systems. The Affirm upright attachment is employed with our Dimensions 2D and 3D systems. These breast biopsy systems provide an alternative to open surgical biopsy, and can be performed as an outpatient procedure under local anesthesia, allowing shorter recovery times. The Affirm 3D option provides faster lesion targeting and reduced patient procedure time compared to traditional stereotactic biopsy procedures. The Affirm system is pre-programmed for use with our Eviva and ATEC vacuum-assisted breast biopsy devices.  

Breast Biopsy Products  

We offer a wide range of minimally invasive products for breast biopsy and biopsy site marking. Our breast biopsy portfolio includes two types of tethered vacuum-assisted breast biopsy products, the Automated Tissue Excision Collection, or ATEC, and Eviva devices. Each tethered device is a disposable biopsy tool that is powered by a console and utilizes our patented fluid management system. The ATEC device can be used under all standard imaging guidance modalities (stereotactic x-ray, ultrasound, MRI and molecular breast imaging) whereas our Eviva device is used exclusively under stereotactic x-ray guidance. In addition to ATEC and Eviva products, we also offer the Celero device, a non-tethered (no separate console), vacuum-assisted, spring-loaded, disposable core biopsy device which is used exclusively under ultrasound-guidance. All of our breast biopsy devices have been designed to accommodate a broad spectrum of patients as well as hard-to-reach lesions in the axilla, near the chest wall, near implants or behind the nipple.  

Breast Brachytherapy Products  

The MammoSite Radiation Therapy System and Contura Multi-Lumen Balloon Brachytherapy System are breast brachytherapy technologies that offer accelerated partial breast irradiation, or APBI, therapy to treat breast cancer. With both systems, a balloon is inserted into the surgical cavity remaining after a lumpectomy that delivers a 5-day course of concentrated radiation to the tissue most likely to contain residual cancerous cells following surgery. These systems are designed to reduce radiation exposure to adjacent healthy tissue. We acquired all the rights to the Contura Multi-Lumen Balloon Brachytherapy System from SenoRx, Inc., or SenoRx, a subsidiary of C.R. Bard, Inc. through the settlement of litigation in the third quarter of fiscal 2013.  

MammoPad Breast Cushion  

Our mammography related products include a proprietary MammoPad breast cushion. The MammoPad cushion is designed to reduce the discomfort women often experience during mammography. The cushion’s grip-like surface also holds breast tissue in place to improve breast positioning. The radiolucent cushion does not interfere with image quality and can be used with all of our mammography systems.  

12  

Table of Contents 

Photoconductor Coatings  

Our Hologic Hitec-Imaging, or Hitec-Imaging, GmbH subsidiary had been our sole supplier of the amorphous selenium photoconductor coatings employed in our Selenia and Dimensions full-field digital mammography detectors. Hitec-Imaging also develops, manufactures, and sells non-medical selenium and organic photoconductor materials for use in a variety of other electro photographic applications, including copying and printing. During fiscal 2013, we completed the transfer of our selenium panel coating production line to our facility in Newark, Delaware. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, in connection with our cost reduction initiatives, we decided to shut-down our organic photoconductor manufacturing line, which we expect to be completed in fiscal 2014.  

Sentinelle Medical MRI Coils and Workstation  

Our Sentinelle Medical Inc., or Sentinelle Medical, subsidiary develops, manufactures and markets a suite of high performance breast MRI coils. MRI coils are antenna receivers that are used to collect radio-frequency information emitted from a patient during an MRI procedure. These signals are fed into the MRI magnet system which produces a 3D image from the information. The coils are tuned to specific frequencies and positioned in calculated geometries to provide high quality signal to noise performance for imaging in the MRI system. The coils are integrated into various MRI scanning systems, and employ a unique variable coil geometry to obtain improved image quality by positioning the coils in close proximity to the tissue. The coil is not fixed and allows the healthcare provider to adjust positioning to each patient’s unique anatomy. This close positioning results in higher signal to noise ratio and improved image resolution. The improved resolution also enhances guidance for biopsy targeting. We also develop coils for other indications, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we received FDA 510(k) clearance for our new prostate MRI coil, the Sentinelle Endo Coil Array for pelvic imaging including the prostate, cervix, colon and the surrounding tissues in the pelvis. With a similar profile to a transrectal ultrasound probe, this two-channel endo coil array is designed to acquire images in a manner that should help align radiologists and urologists in the diagnosis and treatment of prostate cancer. In addition to MRI coils, we sell an MRI CAD workstation designed to simplify workflow and improve diagnostic capabilities.  

Trident Specimen Radiography System  

In August 2011, we received FDA 510(k) clearance for our new Trident specimen radiography system. The Trident specimen radiography system is a cabinet x-ray system used to provide digital images of surgical and core biopsy specimens to verify that the correct tissue has been excised during surgery or a breast biopsy procedure. The Trident system incorporates our amorphous selenium based detector technology. It is a compact and portable unit designed to be used in the same room or close to where breast surgery or biopsy procedures take place. Performing verification in the same room as the procedure or nearby can improve workflow and reduce the duration of a surgical or biopsy procedure. Commercialization of this product commenced in the first quarter of fiscal 2012.  

GYN Surgical Products  

NovaSure  

The NovaSure system involves a minimally-invasive procedure that allows physicians to treat women suffering from abnormal uterine bleeding. The system consists of a disposable device and a controller that delivers radio frequency, or RF, energy to ablate the endometrial lining of the uterus in order to eliminate or reduce the patient’s bleeding. The NovaSure disposable device is a hand-held, single-use device that incorporates a flexible gold-plated mesh electrode used to deliver the RF energy during the NovaSure procedure. The NovaSure RF Controller generates and delivers the RF energy customized for each patient, monitors several critical treatment and safety parameters, and automatically controls other aspects of the procedure.  

13  

Table of Contents 

The NovaSure system is a “second generation” endometrial ablation therapy approved by the FDA to be performed without drug or surgical pre-treatment. Pre-treatment can be time-consuming, expensive and inconvenient for both patients and physicians and can result in uncomfortable or painful side effects and complications. In contrast, the NovaSure procedure is typically performed as an outpatient procedure in the hospital, ambulatory surgery center or physician’s office and often does not require the use of general anesthesia.  

MyoSure  

The MyoSure system is designed to provide efficient and effective hysteroscopic removal of fibroids located just below the lining of the uterus as well as uterine polyps. Removal of fibroids can provide effective relief of heavy menstrual bleeding commonly attributed to such pathology. Unlike other methods of tissue removal, the excavated tissue samples remain intact, which allows them to be tested for abnormalities. Also, minimal tissue destruction makes the MyoSure system a good choice for women seeking to preserve uterine form and function.  

The MyoSure system consists of a tissue removal device, control unit, and hysteroscope. The MyoSure tissue removal device is single-use and features simultaneous tissue cutting and removal. The device incorporates a rapidly rotating cutting blade designed to remove a 3 cm fibroid in less than 10 minutes. During the procedure, the tissue removal device is inserted through the MyoSure hysteroscope. This tissue removal device is powered by a control unit, which features a simple user interface and is foot pedal activated.  

Aquilex Fluid Control System  

The Aquilex fluid control system is a product that measures the inflow and outflow of fluid from the patient during hysteroscopic procedures and is designed to reduce procedure and anesthesia time associated with hysteroscopic procedures while providing high quality visualization to the surgeon.  

Skeletal Health Products  

Discovery and Horizon X-Ray Bone Densitometers  

Bone densitometry is the measurement of bone density to assist in the diagnosis and monitoring of osteoporosis and other metabolic bone diseases that can lead to debilitating bone fractures. Osteoporosis is a disease that is most prevalent in post-menopausal women. Our proprietary Discovery x-ray bone densitometers incorporate dual-energy x-ray technology to precisely assess bone density of the most important fracture sites, the spine and hip. Since our commercial introduction of the first bone densitometer employing dual-energy x-ray technology in 1987, we have continually improved upon our technology, and the use of dual-energy x-ray technology has become and remains a leading bone densitometry assessment tool. We offer a range of bone densitometers with various features and options to address the requirements of our diverse customer base. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we launched a new product line of x-ray bone densitometers, Horizon, which incorporates advanced features and performance characteristics.  

Sahara Clinical Bone Sonometers  

We have developed and sell a relatively low-cost, lightweight, portable ultrasound bone analyzer, which assesses the bone density of the heel that can assist in initial screening for osteoporosis.  

Mini C-arm Imaging  

We manufacture and distribute Fluoroscan mini C-arm imaging systems. Mini C-arms provide low intensity, real-time x-ray imaging, with high-resolution images at radiation levels and at a cost below those of conventional x-ray and fluoroscopic equipment. Mini C-arm systems are used primarily by orthopedic surgeons to perform minimally invasive surgical procedures on a patient’s extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot and ankle.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Marketing, Sales and Service  

We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service forces and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives. In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, no customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues. In fiscal 2013, revenues under our collaboration agreement with Novartis accounted for 16.6% of our Diagnostics segment revenue. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in any other business segment in fiscal 2013, 2012 or 2011. In fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, foreign sales accounted for approximately 25%, 27% and 24% of our product sales, respectively. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for geographical information concerning those sales.  

U.S. Marketing and Sales  

Our U.S. Diagnostics and GYN Surgical sales forces focus on clinical laboratories, healthcare providers, and third-party payors. A critical element of our strategy in the United States has been to utilize the results of our clinical trials and expanded FDA labeling to demonstrate safety, efficacy and productivity improvements to our target customers. Our Diagnostics’ sales force includes both cytology and molecular specialists focusing on selling to a broad range of laboratories. In addition, our Diagnostics sales specialists call exclusively on OB/GYN offices, while our GYN Surgical sales force targets GYN surgeons in both hospital and office settings.  

Our U.S. Breast Health and Skeletal Health sales force is comprised of full line modality account managers selling mammography and bone densitometry products, assisted by women’s health product specialists and osteoporosis sales specialists. Our biopsy and MRI sales specialists, who often work together with account managers, sell breast biopsy devices and breast biopsy site markers to radiologists and breast surgeons, as well as custom MRI coils and patient positioning systems to radiologists. Our territory sales specialists sell both our MammoSite and breast biopsy and site marker products and target breast surgeons and radiation oncologists. In addition to our MRI sales specialists, our Sentinelle Medical MRI business also supports the MRI original equipment manufacturers, or OEM, channel with product specialists and sales support. Our U.S. sales efforts also include the use of national account managers focused on obtaining purchasing contracts from large purchasing entities, such as managed care organizations, integrated delivery networks, or IDNs, and government healthcare facilities. In addition, in certain regions of the U.S., we use a limited number of independent dealers or distributors to sell and service our products.  

International Marketing and Sales  

Our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical products are marketed outside of the United States by direct operations in Canada, Europe, Australia, China and Hong Kong. We established these operations to manage sales, service, training and distribution in the Canadian, European and Asia/Pacific markets. In China, we are in the process of restructuring our sales channel and are moving towards using a combination of dealers and a smaller direct sales force to gain broader market coverage. We also utilize a network of third-party distributors in various other countries throughout the world. We believe that in order to effectively market our current products and any other new products and applications on a worldwide basis, we will need to continue to increase our international marketing, sales, and service capabilities.  

We sell our Breast Health and Skeletal Health products in international markets through a network of independent distributors and sales representatives, as well as a direct sales and service force in Belgium, the UK, Australia and more recently in China. We offer our products in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, South Asia, Latin America, and Pacific Rim countries, including China, Japan, Australia, South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan, through local sales representatives in select countries and through distributors in those territories.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Service  

Our service organization is responsible for installing our products and providing warranty and repair services, applications training and biomedical training. Products sold by our direct sales force typically carry limited warranties covering parts and labor for twelve months. Products sold through dealers also carry limited warranties that typically last for twelve months and cover only parts or components. We also offer service contracts to our customers that generally last one to five years after the original warranty period. We provide both repair services and routine maintenance services under these arrangements, and also offer repair and maintenance services on a time and materials basis to customers that do not have service contracts. Internationally, we primarily use distributors, sales representatives and third parties to provide maintenance service for our products.  

Competition  

The healthcare industry is highly competitive and characterized by continual change and improvements in technology. This is particularly the case in the market segments in which we operate. A number of companies have developed, or are expected to develop products that compete or will compete with our products. Many of these competitors offer a broader product portfolio and have greater brand recognition than we do, which may make these competitors more attractive to hospitals, radiology clients, group purchasing organizations, laboratories, physicians and other potential customers. In addition, many of our competitors and potential competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than we do. Some of the companies with whom we compete have or may have more extensive research, sales, marketing and manufacturing capabilities and significantly greater technical resources than we do, and may be better positioned to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. Competitors may develop superior products or products of similar quality for sale at the same or lower prices. Moreover, our products could be rendered obsolete by new industry standards or changing technology. We can give no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors.  

In the current environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly required to compete on the basis of price, value, reliability and efficiency. We believe the current global economic conditions and healthcare reform measures are putting additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure rates and market sizes.  

We believe that the success of our products depends on our ability to differentiate ourselves and to demonstrate that our products deliver the attributes that are most important and cost-effective to customers. These attributes include, but are not limited to, superiority in efficacy, ease of use, reliability, accuracy, quality and cost. We believe our continued success depends in large part upon our ability to invest in product enhancements and technologies that will help us distinguish ourselves from our competitors.  

Diagnostics. Our ThinPrep liquid-based cytology product faces direct competition in the United States primarily from Becton, Dickinson and Company, or BD, which manufactures a competitive offering. We also compete with the conventional Pap smear and other alternative methods for detecting cervical cancer and/or its precursors. Internationally, our ThinPrep product competes with a variety of companies and other “off-market” (non-FDA approved) tests, since fewer regulatory barriers exist in most international markets as compared to the United States.  

We believe that our Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test is currently the only approved in vitro diagnostic test for predicting the risk of pre-term birth in the United States. Internationally, our Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test competes with Actim Partus manufactured by Alere, Inc. However, this product could experience competition from companies that manufacture and market pregnancy-related diagnostic products and services. In addition, healthcare providers use diagnostic techniques such as clinical examination and ultrasound to diagnose the likelihood of pre-term birth and may choose these techniques rather than use the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test.  

16  

Table of Contents 

In the molecular diagnostics market, our products compete with many companies in the U.S. and abroad engaged in the development, commercialization and distribution of similar products intended for clinical molecular diagnostic applications. These companies may have or develop products competitive with those offered by us. Clinical laboratories also may offer testing services that are competitive with our products and may use reagents purchased from us or others to develop their own diagnostic tests. Such laboratory-developed tests may not be subject to the same clinical trial and FDA submission requirements as our products.  

In the global clinical diagnostics market, we compete with several companies offering alternative technologies to our diagnostic products including Abbott Laboratories, Siemens, BD, bioMérieux SA, Cepheid, Life Technologies Corporation, Luminex Corporation, Qiagen N.V., and Roche Diagnostics Corporation, or Roche. Specifically, in the U.S. our Aptima Combo 2 tests compete against BD and Roche, and our Aptima HPV tests compete with tests marketed by Qiagen and Roche, which received PMA approval for a high risk HPV test and 16/18 test in 2011.  

In the market for blood screening products, our primary competitor is Roche, which received FDA approval of its first PCR-based nucleic acid tests for blood screening in December 2002. We also compete with assays developed internally by blood screening centers and laboratories based on PCR technology. In the future, our blood screening products may compete with viral inactivation or reduction technologies and blood substitutes.  

Novartis retains certain rights to grant licenses of the patents related to HCV and HIV to third parties in blood screening using nucleic acid testing. Prior to its acquisition by Novartis, Chiron Corporation, or Chiron, granted HIV and HCV licenses to Roche in the blood screening and clinical diagnostics fields. Chiron also granted HIV and HCV licenses in the clinical diagnostics field to Bayer Healthcare LLC (now Siemens), together with the right to grant certain additional HIV and HCV sublicenses in the field to third parties. If Novartis or Siemens grant additional licenses, further competition will be created for sales of HCV and HIV assays and these licenses could affect the prices that can be charged for certain of our products.  

Breast Health. Our mammography and related products and subsystems compete on a worldwide basis with products offered by a number of competitors, including General Electric Company, or GE, Siemens, Koninklijke Philips NV, or Philips (through its acquisition of Sectra AB in 2011), Planmed Oy, or Planmed, Agfa-Gevaert N.V., or Agfa, Carestream Health, Inc., FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation, or Fuji, I.M.S., and Toshiba Corporation. In the U.S., our full field digital mammography systems compete with digital mammography systems from GE, Siemens, Fuji, I.M.S., Philips and Planmed. Our digital mammography systems also compete with Fuji’s and Carestream Health’s Computed Radiography, or CR mammography systems, and other lower-priced alternatives to 2D digital mammography and analog mammography systems. Our 3D tomosynthesis systems compete in certain countries outside of the U.S. with 3D tomosynthesis systems developed by GE, Siemens, Fuji and I.M.S. Although we understand that certain of our competitors, including GE, Siemens and Fuji, are developing 3D tomosynthesis systems for commercial use in the U.S., there are no 3D tomosynthesis systems, other than our Dimensions system, that have been approved for use in the U.S. by the FDA. Any such use will require pre-market approval, or PMA, by the FDA. As a result, in the U.S. our 3D tomosynthesis systems currently compete primarily with lower cost 2D digital mammography systems.  

Our Sentinelle Medical breast MRI coils compete primarily with products sold by Philips to end users and OEMs, as well as other smaller third-party coil designers and the MRI OEMs themselves.  

The primary competitor for our breast biopsy product line is Devicor Medical Products, Inc. In addition, other competitors include CareFusion Corporation, Sanarus Technologies, LLC and Intact Medical Corporation.  

Our MammoSite and Contura systems face competition from companies also selling accelerated partial breast irradiation products, such as Cianna Medical, Inc., as well as from other technologies, such as treatments using external beam, whole breast radiation, which has longer-term data on patient outcomes. Alternative  

17  

Table of Contents 

 radiation therapy methods, such as intraoperative radiation therapy, are being used by some institutions; however, such alternative methods have not yet achieved widespread commercial use. We believe that the breast brachytherapy market has and will continue to experience challenges including downward pressure on procedure volumes due to the continuing adverse economic environment and current trends in breast cancer management, as well as competitive pricing pressures and competition from existing and alternative new technologies.  

GYN Surgical. Our NovaSure system currently faces direct competition from Johnson & Johnson, Boston Scientific Corporation, or Boston Scientific, and The Cooper Companies, Inc., or CooperSurgical, each of which currently markets an FDA approved “second generation” endometrial ablation device for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. In addition to these devices, we also compete with alternative treatments to our NovaSure system, such as drug therapy, intrauterine devices, hysterectomy, dilation and curettage and rollerball ablation. Internationally our products compete with drug therapy and first generation rollerball technology, as well as other endometrial ablation devices, including Johnson & Johnson’s Gynecare Thermachoice product, Boston Scientific’s Genesys HTA system, and two other relatively small companies that market products that are not FDA approved. Because drug therapy is an alternative to our NovaSure procedure, NovaSure’s competitors also include many major pharmaceutical companies that manufacture hormonal drugs for women.  

Our MyoSure product competes directly with hysteroscopic loop resection and Smith & Nephew’s TruClear tissue morcellator. The MyoSure product also competes with alternative therapeutic techniques such as hysteroscopic resection with a monopolar or bipolar loop, which is currently the most common technique for removing intrauterine fibroids and polyps.  

Skeletal Health. GE is our primary competitor in the bone densitometry market, and we also compete with Orthoscan in the mini-C arm market.  

Manufacturing  

We have historically purchased many of the components and raw materials used in our products from numerous suppliers worldwide. For reasons of quality assurance, scarcity or cost effectiveness, certain components and raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are available only from one or a limited number of suppliers. We have worked closely with our suppliers to develop contingency plans to assure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, and in some cases, we have established long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. In certain instances, we have developed in-house capability to offset potential shortages caused by sole source suppliers. Due to the high standards and FDA requirements applicable to the manufacturing of our products, we may not be able to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for certain components or materials. In the event that we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials or components on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our products on a timely and cost-competitive basis may be compromised, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified NAT diagnostic assays, pursuant to a fixed-price contract, is Roche Diagnostics Corporation. In addition, we have a supply and purchase agreement for oligonucleotides for HPV with Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. Each of these entities is an affiliate of Roche Diagnostics GmbH, which is one of our primary competitors in molecular diagnostics. We also have a supply agreement with an affiliate of GE for membranes used in connection with our ThinPrep product line. GE competes with us in our Breast Health and Skeletal Health businesses.  

We have one third-party manufacturer for each of our molecular diagnostics instrument product lines. KMC Systems, Inc., or KMC Systems, is the only manufacturer of the Tigris instrument; Stratec Biomedical AG, or Stratec, is the only manufacturer of the Panther instrument; and Tecan Group Ltd., or Tecan, is the only manufacturer of the Cervista HTA System. We are dependent on these third-party manufacturers, and this dependence exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs.  

18  

Table of Contents 

We have no firm long-term commitments from KMC Systems, Stratec, Tecan or any of our other contract manufacturers to supply products to us for any specific period, or in any specific quantity, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. If KMC Systems, Stratec, Tecan or any of our other third-party manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with products in sufficient quantities, then instrument shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. Further, because we place orders with our manufacturers based on forecasts of expected demand for our instruments, if we inaccurately forecast demand we may be unable to obtain adequate manufacturing capacity or adequate quantities of components to meet our customers’ delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories.  

We may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers to replace existing suppliers, increase our volumes or reduce our costs. We may not be able to find contract manufacturers that meet our needs, and even if we do, qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. If we are required or elect to change contract manufacturers, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer.  

We and our contract manufacturers manufacture our products at a relatively limited number of different facilities located throughout the world, and in most cases, the manufacturing of each of our products is concentrated in one or a few locations. An interruption in manufacturing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. Our manufacturing facilities are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. Our manufacturing facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage to any of our facilities, which could harm our business and prospects. Because some of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the United States, including in Germany, Canada, Costa Rica, the United Kingdom and China, those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Item 1A below.  

We continually review our operations and facilities in an effort to reduce costs and increase efficiencies and are currently in the process of completing the consolidation of our Madison, Wisconsin molecular diagnostics operations into our Gen-Probe facilities in San Diego, California. We expect this consolidation to be completed in calendar 2014. During fiscal 2013, we moved our selenium panel coating production line into our digital detector manufacturing facility in Newark, Delaware from Germany, and have completed the majority of consolidation of our breast biopsy operations, including manufacturing, research and development and sales support to our Costa Rica manufacturing facility and facilities in Massachusetts. Our breast biopsy operations consolidation is expected to be completed at or near the end of calendar 2013. We may experience unexpected problems and expenses associated with our consolidation of operations and facilities that could materially harm our business and prospects.  

From time to time new regulations are enacted that can affect the content and manufacturing of our products. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The new rule, which is effective for calendar 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by May 31, 2014, will require companies to diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo, or DRC, or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our  

19  

Table of Contents 

 products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.  

Other regulations which affect the content and manufacturing of our products include, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances (REACH), the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) enacted in the European Union which regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain products we manufacture. Similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in Japan and China and various states of the United States may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. These redesigns or alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or have other similar effects.  

Backlog  

Our backlog as of November 3, 2013 and November 4, 2012 totaled $299.2 million and $284.2 million, respectively. Backlog consists of customer orders for which a delivery schedule within the next twelve months has been specified. Orders included in backlog may be canceled or rescheduled by customers without significant penalty. Backlog as of any particular date should not be relied upon as indicative of our net revenues for any future period.  

Research and Development  

The markets in which we participate are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product introductions and evolving customer requirements. Investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. Our research and development efforts are focused on the further development and improvement of our existing products, the design and development of innovative medical technologies and regulatory compliance. During fiscal 2013, our development projects included the ongoing development, clinical trials and other support for the FDA clearance or approval process for our 3D Dimensions system and related products, as well as the development of improvements to next generation laboratory automation and GYN surgical products. In addition, we are working on development programs to add real-time PCR capabilities for the next-generation Panther instrument system and to develop a new, standalone instrument to further automate molecular testing from liquid-based cytology specimens. We anticipate continuing research and development to support these ongoing efforts.  

In addition to product development, our research and development personnel play an active role in the review of product specifications, clinical protocols and FDA submissions, as well as ensuring that certain of our products conform to European health, safety and environmental requirements, or CE marking. Our research and development expenses were $197.6 million, $131.0 million and $116.7 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These expenses do not include acquired in-process research and development expenses of $4.5 million in fiscal 2012.  

Patents and Proprietary Rights  

We rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights and confidentiality procedures to protect our technology. Due to the rapid technological changes that characterize the markets we operate in, we believe that the enhancement of existing products, reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know- 

20  

Table of Contents 

 how and the development of new products are generally as important as patent protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Nevertheless, we have obtained patents and will continue to make efforts to obtain patents, when available, in connection with our product development programs.  

We own numerous U.S. patents and have applied for numerous additional U.S. patents relating to our technologies. We also own or have applied for corresponding patents in selected foreign countries. These patents relate to various aspects of most of our products. We do not know if current or future patent applications will issue with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents issued will be challenged or invalidated. There is a risk that our patent applications will not result in granted patents or that granted patents will not provide significant protection for our products and technology. Unauthorized third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology that our patents do not cover. In addition, because patent applications in the U.S. are not generally publicly disclosed until eighteen months after the application is filed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our technology. Moreover, there is a risk that foreign intellectual property laws will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S. The rights provided by a patent are finite in time. Over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the U.S. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology.  

In addition to the patents we have been issued or we have acquired, we license patents from others on a variety of terms and conditions.  

We are engaged in intellectual property litigation as described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements entitled “Litigation and Other Matters,” and we may be notified in the future of claims that we may be infringing intellectual property rights possessed by third-parties. In connection with any such litigation or if any claims are asserted against us or our products, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. Alternatively, we may decide or be required to litigate such claims. A successful claim by a third-party may require us to remove the infringing product from the market or to design around the patented technology, potentially resulting in a less acceptable product.  

Regulatory and Reimbursement  

Regulatory  

The manufacture, sale, lease and service of medical diagnostic and surgical devices intended for commercial use are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the FDA in the United States and by a variety of regulatory agencies in other countries. Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, known as the FD&C Act, manufacturers of medical products and devices must comply with certain regulations governing the design, testing, manufacturing, packaging, servicing and marketing of medical products. Some of our products are also subject to the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act, administered by the FDA, which imposes performance standards and record keeping, reporting, product testing and product labeling requirements for devices that emit radiation, such as x-rays.  

The FDA generally must clear the commercial sale of new medical devices. Commercial sales of our medical devices within the United States must be preceded by either a pre-market notification filing pursuant to Section 510(k) of the FD&C Act or the granting of a PMA. A 510(k) pre-market notification filing must contain information establishing that the device to be sold is substantially equivalent to a device commercially distributed prior to May 28, 1976.  

The PMA procedure involves a complex and lengthy testing and review process by the FDA and may require several years to obtain. We may need to first obtain an investigational device exemption, known as an IDE, in order to conduct extensive clinical testing of the device to obtain the necessary clinical data for  

21  

Table of Contents 

 submission to the FDA. The FDA will grant a PMA only if after evaluating clinical data it finds that the safety and effectiveness of the product has been sufficiently demonstrated. This approval may restrict the number of devices distributed or require additional patient follow-up for an indefinite period of time.  

Our manufacturing processes and facilities are subject to continuing review by the FDA and foreign governments or their representatives. Adverse findings could result in various actions against us, including withdrawal of approvals and product recalls.  

The laboratories that purchase certain of our products, including the ThinPrep System, ThinPrep Imaging System, Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test, Aptima Combo 2, Aptima HPV and Cervista HPV tests are subject to extensive regulation under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, which requires laboratories to meet specified standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. We believe that the affected products operate in a manner that will allow laboratories purchasing these products to comply with CLIA requirements. However, we cannot assure that adverse interpretations of current CLIA regulations or future changes in CLIA regulations would not have an adverse effect on sales of any such products.  

Our blood screening products are subject to extensive pre- and post-market regulation as biologics by the FDA, including regulations that govern the testing, manufacturing, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising and promotion of the products under the FD&C Act and the Public Health Service Act, and by comparable agencies in most foreign countries. The process required by the FDA before a biologic may be marketed in the United States generally involves the completion of pre-clinical testing; the submission of an investigational new drug application which must become effective before clinical trials may begin; and the performance of adequate and well controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of the biologic’s proposed intended use.  

The FDA requires approval of a biologics license application before a licensed biologic may be legally marketed in the United States. Product approvals may be withdrawn or suspended if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur following initial marketing.  

Certain analyte specific reagents, referred to as ASR products, may be sold without 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. However, ASR products are subject to significant restrictions. The manufacturer may not make clinical or analytical performance claims for the ASR product, may not promote their use with additional laboratory equipment and may only sell the ASR product to clinical laboratories that are qualified to run high complexity tests under CLIA. Each laboratory must validate the ASR product for use in diagnostic procedures as a laboratory developed test.  

Outside the United States, our ability to market our products is contingent upon maintaining our International Standards Organization, or ISO, certification, complying with European directives and in some cases receiving specific marketing authorization from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorizations, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. Foreign registration is an ongoing process as we register additional products and/or product modifications.  

We can give no assurance that the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies will give us requisite approvals, clearances or certifications for any of our product or product enhancements under development on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, after clearance is given, these agencies can later withdraw the clearance or require us to change the device or its manufacturing process or labeling, to supply additional proof of its safety and effectiveness, or to recall, repair, replace or refund the cost of the medical device, if it is shown to be hazardous or defective. The process of obtaining clearance to market products is costly and time-consuming and can delay the marketing and sale of our products.  

22  

Table of Contents 

From time to time new regulations are enacted, including, for example, the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances (REACH), the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) enacted in the European Union, which regulate the use of certain hazardous substances in, and require the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from, certain products we manufacture. This and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in Japan and China and various states of the United States may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. These redesigns or alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead-times for product introductions or have other similar effects. Also, on August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted a new rule requiring disclosures of specified minerals, known as conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. The new rule, which is effective for calendar 2013 and requires a disclosure report to be filed by May 31, 2014, will require companies to diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the DRC or an adjoining country. The new rule could affect sourcing at competitive prices and availability in sufficient quantities of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten. The number of suppliers who provide conflict-free minerals may be limited. In addition, there may be material costs associated with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins of the relevant minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In addition, we may encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so.  

We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse, including federal and state anti-kickback laws, as well as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for an entity to solicit, offer, receive, or pay remuneration or anything of value in exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business or the purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for or recommending the purchase, lease or order of any item or service paid for by Medicare, Medicaid or certain other federal and state healthcare programs. The statute has been broadly interpreted to cover a wide array of practices. Some states have passed similar laws and also regulate interactions with health care providers, or HCPs, as well as the requirement to disclose payments to HCPs. The federal government has published regulations that identify “safe harbors,” which if applicable will assure that certain arrangements will not be found to violate the federal anti-kickback statute. Similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing, or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of such official in his or her official capacity, inducing the official to do any act in violation of his or her lawful duty, or to secure any improper advantage in obtaining or retaining business. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. In addition to the FCPA, our international operations are also subject to various other international anti-bribery laws such as the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act 2010, or the UK Anti-Bribery Act. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. However, despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal control policies and procedures, we may not always prevent reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents, or employees or agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. It is possible that our practices might be challenged under federal or state anti-kickback, FCPA or similar laws due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the absence of extensive guidance regarding compliance. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also could be subject to adverse publicity, severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. Moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, and withdrawal of an approved product from the market.  

23  

Table of Contents 

State, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. These measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving submission of claims to third party payers. These standards also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. In addition, under the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act), which was passed in 2009, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to federal HIPAA privacy and security rules became directly subject to such rules because the businesses may be deemed to serve as “business associates” to certain of our customers. On January 17, 2013, the Office for Civil Rights of the Department of Health and Human Services released a final rule implementing the HITECH Act and making certain other changes to HIPAA privacy and security requirements. Compliance with the rule will increase the requirements applicable to some of our businesses. Failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation.  

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act signed into law on March 23, 2010 and the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010 signed into law on March 30, 2010, which we refer to together as PPACA, include new regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs, as well as stringent new reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and hospitals. These reporting provisions preempt state laws that require reporting of the same information, but not those that require reports of different or additional information. We expect compliance with the new healthcare legislation to impose significant additional administrative and financial burdens on us.  

Sales of medical devices outside of the United States are subject to foreign regulatory requirements that vary widely from country to country. The time required to obtain approval from a foreign country to market and sell our products may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval and the requirements may differ. In addition, we may be required to meet the FDA’s export requirements or receive FDA export approval for the export of our products to foreign countries.  

We are further subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, among others. We may be required to incur significant costs to comply with these laws and regulations in the future, and complying with these laws may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

In August 2010, the FDA issued two reports outlining potential changes to the 510(k) regulatory process. In addition, in January 2011, the FDA issued an implementation plan containing 25 specific actions to be implemented in 2011 relating to the 510(k) regulatory process and associated administrative matters. The FDA also deferred action on several other initiatives, including the creation of a new class of devices that would be subject to heightened review processes, pending a review of the Institute of Medicine’s related report on the 510(k) regulatory process which was published in July 2011. The FDA is still reviewing the Institute of Medicine’s report as well as public input to determine what, if any, recommendations the FDA will adopt with respect to the 510(k) regulatory process. Many of the actions proposed by the FDA could result in significant changes to the 510(k) regulatory process, which would likely complicate the process of obtaining clearance for products by the FDA.  

24  

Table of Contents 

In September 2012, the European Commission proposed new regulations for medical devices. The proposed new regulations cover in one regulation devices that are currently the subject of two separate directives, the Active Implantable Medical Devices Directive and the Medical Devices Directive. The adoption of these regulations may impact our international operations through a broadened scope of medical device oversight and/or regulatory reach. Compliance with the new European Commission regulations, if and when adopted, may impose additional administrative and financial burdens on us.  

Federal, state and foreign regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices and pharmaceuticals are subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such changes might have on our business. See the risks and uncertainties described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Item 1A below.  

Reimbursement  

Market acceptance of our medical products in the United States and other countries is dependent upon the purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures, and the reimbursement of patients’ medical expenses by government healthcare programs, private insurers or other healthcare payors. In the United States, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, known as CMS, establishes policies for the coverage and reimbursement of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries. CMS publishes reimbursement rates for laboratory services, physician, hospital and ambulatory surgical center payments on an annual basis. Under current CMS policies, varying reimbursement levels have been established for tests and procedures performed using our products. Coverage policies for Medicare patients may vary by regional Medicare carrier in the absence of a national coverage determination and reimbursement rates for procedures will vary based on the geographic price index. Coverage and reimbursement for patients with private insurance is dependent on the individual private payor’s decisions and may not follow the policies and rates established by CMS for Medicare. Moreover, private insurance carriers may choose not to follow the CMS reimbursement policies. The use of our products outside of the United States is similarly affected by reimbursement policies adopted by foreign regulatory authorities and insurance carriers.  

Healthcare reform proposals and medical cost containment measures are being adopted in the United States and in many foreign countries. These reforms and measures, including those envisioned by the adoption in 2010 of United States healthcare reform, could among other things limit the use of our products and treatments and further reduce reimbursement available for such use. In addition, the uncertainty in the medical community regarding their nature and effect could have an adverse effect on our customers’ purchasing decisions regarding our products and treatments and could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Significant reductions in reimbursement rates proposed or implemented for the use of any our products have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the sales of those products. We also expect that pricing of medical products and services will remain under pressure as alternative payment models such as bundling, value-based purchasing and accountable care organizations begin to take shape in the United States.  

Currently, there is not an established procedural terminology, or CPT, code, reimbursement rate or official coverage for the use of 3D mammography (breast tomosynthesis). We are working with governmental authorities, professional societies, healthcare providers, insurance companies and other third-party payors in efforts to secure reimbursement for the use of 3D tomosynthesis. However, we can give no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Failure to obtain, or delays in obtaining, adequate reimbursement for the use of 3D mammography would adversely affect sales of our Dimensions 3D systems.  

Employees  

As of September 28, 2013, we had approximately 5,615 full-time employees, including 1,659 in manufacturing operations, 687 in research and development, 2,538 in marketing, sales and support services, and 731 in finance and administration. The non-management employees of our Hitec-Imaging subsidiary located in Germany are represented by a union. Hitec-Imaging’s 164 non-management German employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements negotiated on a national and regional basis between Unternehmens-Verband  

25  

Table of Contents 

 Südôstliches Westfalen e.V., the Employers Association of North Rhine-Westphalia, and the German Metal Workers Union, IndustrieGewerkschaft Metall. In addition, Hitec-Imaging’s German employees are represented by a works council, a Betriebsrat, with respect to various shop agreements for social matters and working conditions. We believe that our relationship with our employees is good. Except as described herein, none of our other employees are represented by a union.  

Seasonality  

Worldwide sales, including U.S. sales, do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, customer purchases of our GYN Surgical products have been historically lower in our second fiscal quarter as compared to our other fiscal quarters. We expect continuing fluctuations in our manufacture and shipment of blood screening products and instruments to our blood screening collaborator, currently Novartis, which vary each period based on Novartis’ inventory levels and supply chain needs. Our respiratory infectious disease product line is also subject to significant seasonal and year-over-year fluctuations. In addition, the summer months, which occur during our fiscal fourth quarter, typically have had lower order rates internationally for most of our products.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors