PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

“Newell Rubbermaid” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.  

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports  

The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

GENERAL  

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that touch the lives of people where they work, live and play. The Company’s products are marketed under a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid®, Graco®, Aprica®, Levolor®, Calphalon®, Goody®, Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Dymo®, Parker®, Waterman®, Irwin®, Lenox® and Technical Concepts™. The Company’s multi-product offering consists of well-known name-brand consumer and commercial products in three business segments: Home & Family; Office Products; and Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products.  

Newell Rubbermaid’s vision is to become a global company of Brands That Matter™ and great people, known for best-in-class results. The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer performance and value. Over the past five years, the Company has been focused on transforming its business model and operations to align with its long-term strategy. The Company has largely completed the transformation and has transitioned from a manufacturer of products to a marketer of Brands That Matter to consumers, improved the product portfolio by investing in brands and products that respond to innovation and product differentiation while reducing exposures to commoditized product categories, and expanded geographically with a growing global footprint. With the transformation largely complete, the Company’s strategy is to leverage the portfolio for faster growth, continue building Brands That Matter to drive demand, and fuel growth through margin expansion and scale synergies. The Company’s strategy is designed to achieve simultaneous net sales growth, gross margin expansion and increased earnings per share.  

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements included in this report.  

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES  

Leverage the Portfolio for Faster Growth  

The Company’s strategy is to leverage its brand and product portfolio for faster growth by targeting further investment in higher growth businesses and categories to accelerate geographic and category expansion. In 2010, the Company completed Project Acceleration through which the Company substantially exited commoditized businesses and product lines that the Company deemed as not responsive to innovation and where input costs were a significant portion of the overall product cost. As a result, the Company’s current portfolio of brands and products generally are more responsive to innovation and product differentiation, have strong margin and growth potential, and participate in global categories.  

Each of the Company’s global business units (“GBUs”) supports one or more of the Company’s key brands worldwide, with a focus on developing and marketing differentiated products designed to meet consumers’ needs. The GBU structure gives the Company’s key businesses the ability to leverage research and development, branding, marketing and innovation on a global basis. The Company is able to maximize the benefits of its targeted investments in geographic and category expansion because the GBU structure allows the GBUs to take advantage of favorable customer and channel dynamics, optimize valued intellectual property and realize synergies with the Company’s core product categories and competencies.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Build Brands that Matter to Drive Demand  

The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands by leveraging a consumer-driven innovation process, utilizing and further developing best-in-class marketing and branding capabilities across the organization, and investing in strategic brand-building activities to support long-term sales growth. As part of the consumer-driven innovation process, the Company invests in consumer insight programs to better understand its target consumers and their needs. The insights gained from this investment are used to develop focused brand strategies and to create products that deliver meaningful solutions.  

The Company also continues to employ resources to further develop best-in-class branding and marketing capabilities across the organization. Each business unit is tasked with evaluating its brands against best-in-class metrics, using a common framework and methodology, and developing a comprehensive plan to achieve the targeted goals. The Company’s continued investment in strategic brand-building activities such as research and development, marketing, and advertising and promotion supports the consumer-driven innovation process, creates a more effective marketing organization and increases consumer awareness and demand for its products.  

In 2010, the Company continued to support its brands and products with more than $125 million invested in product development, an increase of approximately 9% over 2009. This continued focus on consumer-driven innovation and product development resulted in the launch and support of several new products in 2010, including the following:  

   •    Rubbermaid Reveal™ Microfiber Spray Mop that helps consumers clean floors better, while reducing waste and saving money;  

   •    Goody’s Simple Styles™ collection of hair accessories that make it easy to achieve salon-quality hair styles with only a few simple steps;  

   •    Sharpie® Liquid Pencil with cutting-edge liquid graphite technology that writes smooth like a pen but erases like a pencil;  

   •    Expo Washable™ markers formulated to easily wash off of skin and most washable fabrics;  

   •    Lenox’s® Q88™ bimetal bandsaw blade with a design that maximizes blade life while delivering superior cutting performance; and  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fuel Growth Through Margin Expansion and Scale  

The Company’s objective is to achieve best cost and improve productivity through the adoption of best-in-class practices, including leveraging scale, continuing to optimize the supply chain to improve capacity utilization and to deliver productivity savings, reducing costs in nonmarket-facing activities, designing products to reduce input costs, and utilizing strategic sourcing partners when it is cost effective. Achieving best cost allows the Company to improve its competitive position, generate funds for increased investment in strategic brand-building initiatives, and preserve cash and liquidity.  

In 2010, the Company completed the implementation of its Project Acceleration restructuring initiative, which is expected to result in the realization of annual savings in excess of $220 million by the end of 2011. Through Project Acceleration and other initiatives, the Company made significant progress in improving capacity utilization rates to deliver productivity savings and in increasing the use of strategic sourcing partners. Since the inception of Project Acceleration, the Company reduced its manufacturing footprint by more than 60%. Additionally, the Company restructured its supply chain to realize efficiencies in purchasing, sourcing, distribution and transportation, both domestically and internationally.  

In June 2010, the Company announced a program to simplify and centralize its European business (the “European Transformation Plan”), which includes initiatives designed to transform the European organizational structure and processes to centralize certain operating activities, improve performance, leverage the benefits of scale and to contribute to a more efficient and cost-effective implementation of an enterprise resource planning program in Europe, all with the aim of increasing operating margins in the European region to at least ten percent. The European Transformation Plan is expected to result in aggregate restructuring and other plan-related costs of $110 to $115 million, to be substantially incurred by the end of 2011. The Company expects to realize annualized after-tax savings of $55 to $65 million upon completion of the implementation of the European Transformation Plan.  

The Company continues to evaluate and optimize nonstrategic SG&A expenditures throughout the organization. By establishing regional shared service centers, the Company has started to realize savings due to reduced costs in nonmarket-facing functional capabilities. In addition, the Company has consolidated the leadership and strategic operations of five of the Company’s GBUs into  

4  

Table of Contents 

 the Company’s headquarters facilities and consolidated five additional GBUs into the Company’s other primary North American campuses to facilitate the sharing of knowledge and better leverage best practices.  

BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

The Company’s reportable segments reflect the Company’s focus on building large consumer brands, promoting organizational integration, achieving operating efficiencies in sourcing and distribution and leveraging its understanding of similar consumer segments and distribution channels. The Company’s business segments for 2010 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Home & Family  

The Company’s Home & Family segment consists of five GBUs. Rubbermaid Consumer designs, manufactures, packages and distributes indoor/outdoor organization products and food and home storage products and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Rubbermaid®, Roughneck® and TakeAlongs®. Baby & Parenting designs, sources, packages and distributes infant and juvenile products such as swings, highchairs, car seats, strollers and playards and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Graco®, Teutonia® and Aprica®. Décor designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes window treatments, drapery hardware and cabinet hardware and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Levolor®, Kirsch® and Amerock®. Culinary Lifestyle designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes aluminum and stainless steel cookware, bakeware, cutlery, small kitchen electrics, and kitchen gadgets and utensils and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Calphalon®, Kitchen Essentials®, Cooking with Calphalon™, Calphalon®Unison™ and Katana™. Beauty & Style designs, sources, packages and distributes hair care accessories and grooming products and markets its products primarily under the trademarks Goody®, Ace® and Solano®.  

The Home & Family GBUs primarily market their products directly to mass merchants and specialty, grocery/drug and department stores.  

Office Products  

The Company’s Office Products segment consists of four GBUs. These businesses primarily design, manufacture or source, package and distribute writing instruments and office solutions, primarily for use in the business and home.  

Markers, Highlighters, Art & Office Organization products include permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters and art supplies and are primarily sold under the trademarks Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Vis-à-Vis®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol® and Prismacolor®. Technology products include on-demand labeling products, online postage, card scanning solutions and interactive teaching solutions, and are primarily sold under the trademarks Dymo®, Endicia™, CardScan® and Mimio®. Everyday Writing products include ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction fluids and are primarily sold under the trademarks Paper Mate®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America), Sharpie®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol®, Reynolds® and Liquid Paper®. Fine Writing & Luxury Accessories products include fine writing instruments and luxury accessories and are primarily sold under the trademarks Parker®, Waterman® and Rotring®.  

The Office Products GBUs primarily market their products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers and other retailers.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products  

The Company’s Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products segment consists of four GBUs. These businesses design, manufacture or source, package and distribute cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems, hand tools and power tool accessories, industrial bandsaw blades, soldering tools and accessories, propane torches, manual paint applicator products, and window and door hardware.  

Industrial Products & Services products include cutting and drilling accessories and industrial bandsaw blades sold under the Lenox® trademark. Rubbermaid Commercial Products primarily sells its cleaning and refuse products and hygiene systems under the trademarks Rubbermaid®, Brute® and Technical Concepts™. Construction Tools & Accessories products include hand tools and power tool accessories primarily sold under the trademarks Irwin®, Vise-Grip®, Marathon®, Quick-Grip®, Unibit® and Strait-Line®. Hardware products include paint applicator products, propane torches, soldering tools and accessories, and window and door hardware primarily sold under the trademarks Shur-Line®, BernzOmatic® and Bulldog®.  

The Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products GBUs primarily market their products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, department/specialty stores, hardware and commercial products distributors, industrial/construction outlets, custom shops, select contract customers and other professional customers.  

NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT  

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (in millions, except percentages) (including sales of acquired businesses from the time of acquisition), for the Company’s three business segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries, which includes Sam’s Club, amounted to approximately 12% of consolidated net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and 13% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008, substantially across all segments. For more detailed segment information, including operating income (loss) and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

OTHER INFORMATION  

Multi-Product Offering  

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.  

Customer Marketing and Service  

The Company strives to develop long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships with its customers and become their supplier and brand of choice. To achieve this goal, the Company has a value-added marketing program that offers a family of leading brand name consumer products, tailored sales programs, innovative merchandising support, in-store services and responsive top management.  

The Company strives to enhance its relationships with customers through exceptional customer service. The Company’s ability to provide superior customer service is a result of its supply chain, information technology and marketing and merchandising programs that are designed to enhance the sales and profitability of its customers and provide consistent on-time delivery of its products.  

A critical element of the Company’s customer service is consistent on-time delivery of products to its customers. Retailers are pursuing a number of strategies to deliver the highest-quality, best-cost products to their customers. Retailers frequently purchase on a “just-in-time” basis in order to reduce inventory carrying costs and increase returns on investment. As retailers shorten their lead times for orders, manufacturers and suppliers need to more closely anticipate consumer buying patterns. The Company supports its retail customers’ “just-in-time” inventory strategies through more responsive sourcing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities and electronic communications.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Foreign Operations  

Information regarding the Company’s 2010, 2009 and 2008 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.  

The Company’s Office Products segment has operations in Venezuela, and the primary currency used by the Venezuelan operations to transact business is the Venezuelan Bolivar. Effective January 1, 2010, Venezuela’s economy was characterized as highly inflationary because its three-year cumulative inflation exceeded 100%. The Company began accounting for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting in January 2010. Under highly inflationary accounting, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company recognized $5.6 million of foreign exchange gains associated with its operations in Venezuela, and such amount is included in other (income) expense, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s Venezuelan subsidiary had approximately $29.5 million of net monetary assets denominated in Bolivar Fuertes, and a 5% increase/(decrease) in the applicable exchange rate would decrease/(increase) the Company’s pretax income by $1.5 million.  

During substantially all of 2009, the Company used the official rate of 2.15 to 1 U.S. Dollar to report the results of its Venezuelan operations, and during 2010, the Venezuelan operations’ results were reflected at the parallel exchange rate or the SITME rate (which is a regulated foreign currency exchange system that began in June 2010), both of which were less favorable than the official rate used for substantially all of 2009. As a result of the use of the less favorable rate in 2010, net sales and operating income declined approximately 1% and 3%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 due solely to the change in exchange rates used to translate the results of the Company’s Venezuelan operations. The change in the rate does not impact reported changes in core sales, which exclude the impact of foreign currency.  

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods  

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, zinc, aluminum and gold. The Company’s resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices, and the Company expects continued inflation pressures in 2011. The Company has reduced the volume of its resin purchases through rationalizing and exiting product lines. On an annualized basis, commodities consumed as raw materials generally represent approximately 10% to 15% of annual cost of products sold, with no single type of commodity representing more than 10% of cost of products sold.  

The Company is also placing increasing reliance on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. In a limited number of cases, such manufacturers supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, the Home & Family segment’s Baby & Parenting GBU relies on a third-party manufacturer for substantially all of certain of its products.  

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.  

Backlog  

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.  

Seasonal Variations  

Sales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales and operating income in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. Historically, the Company has earned more than 60% of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume combined with the accounting for fixed costs, such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company has historically generated more than 65% of its operating cash flow in the second half of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments, and credit terms provided to customers.  

Patents and Trademarks  

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Rubbermaid®,” “Graco®,” “Aprica®,” “Levolor®,” “Calphalon®,” “Goody®,” “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Dymo®,” “Parker®,” “Waterman®,” “Irwin®,” “Lenox®” and “Technical Concepts™.”  

7  

Table of Contents 

Customers / Competition  

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to a significant consolidation of the consumer products retail industry and dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment limits the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.  

Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for the retailer to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with products of the Company. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in pricing pressures and the need for strong end-user brands, the ongoing introduction of innovative new products and continuing improvements in category management and customer service. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well- established.  

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining consumer-meaningful brands and differentiated products; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; outsourcing certain production to low-cost suppliers and lower-cost countries where appropriate; and experienced management.  

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; and contract stationers. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 12% of net sales in 2010, across substantially all GBUs. The Company’s top ten customers in 2010 included (in alphabetical order): Bed Bath & Beyond, Lowe’s, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, United Stationers and Wal-Mart.  

Environmental Matters  

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Research and Development  

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. The Company’s research and development costs are incurred to develop new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately 19,400 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 2,400 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries which have collective arrangements decreed by statute.  

8  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS