Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Berkshire and its subsidiaries (referred to herein as “we,” “us,” “our” or similar expressions) are subject to certain risks and uncertainties in our business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations.  

Our tolerance for risk in our insurance businesses may result in significant underwriting losses.  

We have been and will continue to be willing to assume more risk from a single event than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. We could incur a significant loss from a single event and would do so willingly if properly paid for the risk assumed. We may also write coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism. After taking into account all possible correlations, we attempt to avoid writing groups of policies from which pre-tax losses might aggregate above $10 billion. Currently, we estimate that our aggregate exposure under outstanding policies is significantly below $10 billion. However, it is possible that despite our efforts, losses may aggregate in ways that were not anticipated. Our tolerance for significant insurance losses will likely result in lower reported earnings (or net losses) in a future period.  

The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in significant underwriting losses.  

In the property and casualty insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in the future. The principal cost associated with premium revenue is claims. However, it will take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although we believe that liabilities for unpaid losses are adequate, we will not know whether these liabilities or the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product lines, our objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long-term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Our estimated unpaid losses arising under contracts covering property and casualty insurance risks are large ($64 billion at December 31, 2011) so increases to liability estimates can result in materially lower periodic reported earnings.  

Insurance subsidiaries’ investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to loss in value.  

Compared to other insurers, our insurance subsidiaries may concentrate an unusually high percentage of their investments in equity securities and may diversify their investment portfolios far less than is conventional. A significant decline in the fair values of our larger investments may produce a large decrease in our consolidated shareholders’ equity and can have a material adverse effect on our consolidated book value per share. Under certain circumstances, significant declines in the fair values of these investments may require the recognition of losses in the statement of earnings.  

Derivative contracts may require significant future cash settlement payments and result in significant losses.  

We have assumed the risk of potentially significant losses under credit default and equity index put option contracts. Although we received considerable premiums as compensation for accepting these risks, there is no assurance that the premiums we received will exceed our aggregate cash settlement payments. While the risks under the credit default contracts are limited to specified entities, amounts per entity and aggregate contract limits, the deterioration of the U.S. economy or in the financial condition of the referenced entities, could result in significant losses. Although our losses from credit events in 2011 were not significant and our remaining exposures have decreased, the risks of additional payments and losses in our earnings from credit defaults continues into the future. Our risks of losses under equity index put option contracts are based on declines in equity prices of stocks comprising certain major stock indexes. Although the contracts currently in-force will not begin to expire until 2018, we could be subject to significant future settlement payments at contract expiration if equity index prices are below the strike prices specified in the contracts.  

The credit default and equity index put option contracts are recorded at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and the periodic changes in fair values are reported in earnings. The valuations of these contracts and the impact on our earnings can be particularly significant reflecting the volatility of credit and equity markets and material losses may be reported in future periodic earnings.  

We are dependent on a few key people for our major investment and capital allocation decisions.  

Major investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO, age 81, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, age 88.  

21  

Table of Contents 

 If for any reason the services of our key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations. However, Berkshire’s Board of Directors has identified three current Berkshire subsidiary managers who are capable of being CEO. Berkshire’s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this risk and could alter its current view regarding a replacement for Mr. Buffett in the future. We believe that the Board’s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running our numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk.  

We need qualified personnel to manage and operate our various businesses.  

In our decentralized business model, we need qualified and competent management to direct day-to-day business activities of our operating subsidiaries. Our operating subsidiaries also need qualified and competent personnel in executing their business plans and serving their customers, suppliers and other stakeholders. Changes in demographics, training requirements and the unavailability of qualified personnel could negatively impact their ability to meet demands of customers to supply goods and services. Recruiting and retaining qualified personnel is important to all of our operations. Although we have adequate personnel for the current business environment, unpredictable increases in demand for goods and services may exacerbate the risk of not having sufficient numbers of trained personnel, which could have a negative impact on our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  

The past growth rate in Berkshire’s book value per share is not an indication of future results.  

In the years since our present management acquired control of Berkshire, our book value per share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of our capital base (shareholders’ equity of approximately $165 billion as of December 31, 2011), our book value per share will very likely not increase in the future at a rate even close to its past rate.  

Competition  

Each of our operating businesses face intense competitive pressures within markets in which they operate. Competition may arise domestically as well as internationally. While we manage our businesses with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode or prevent the strengthening of competitive advantages. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether our operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. If our operating businesses are unsuccessful in these efforts, our periodic operating results in the future may decline from current levels.  

Economic societal and political conditions could hurt our operating businesses.  

Our operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the industries in which they operate. To the extent that the recovery from the recent economic recession continues to be slow or the economy worsens for a prolonged period of time, one or more of our significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition, our utilities and energy businesses, our railroad business and our manufactured housing business regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital structures. These businesses depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital markets at reasonable rates. To the extent that access to the credit is restricted or the cost of funding increases, these operations could be adversely affected.  

Historically, we derived a relatively small amount of our revenues and earnings from international markets. Our international business was conducted primarily in regions where relatively stable political and economic conditions have prevailed. As a result of more recent business acquisitions, we are subject to increased risks from unstable political conditions and civil unrest at certain of our internationally based businesses. Further, terrorism activities deriving from unstable conditions or acts intended to compromise the integrity or security of our computer networks and information systems could produce significant losses to our worldwide operations, including operations based in the United States. Our business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources or destruction of production facilities and information systems.  

Risks unique to our regulated businesses  

Insurance Businesses  

Our insurance businesses are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Such regulations may relate to among other things, the types of business that can be written, the rates that can be charged for coverage, the level of capital that  

22  

Table of Contents 

 must be maintained, and restrictions on the types and size of investments that can be made. Regulations may also restrict the timing and amount of dividend payments. Accordingly, changes in regulations related to these or other matters or regulatory actions imposing restrictions on our insurance companies, may adversely impact our results of operations.  

Railroad Business  

Our railroad business conducted through BNSF is subject to a significant number of governmental laws and regulations with respect to rates and practices, railroad operations and a variety of health, safety, labor, environmental and other matters. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on BNSF’s business. Governments may change the legislative and/or regulatory framework within which BNSF operates without providing any recourse for any adverse effects that the change may have on the business. Federal legislation enacted in 2008 mandates the implementation of positive train control technology by December 31, 2015, on certain mainline track where intercity and commuter passenger railroads operate and where toxic-by-inhalation (“TIH”) hazardous materials are transported. This type of technology is new and deploying it across BNSF Railway’s system and other railroads may pose significant operating and implementation risks and will require significant capital expenditures.  

BNSF derives a significant amount of revenue from the transportation of coal. To the extent that changes in government environmental policies limit or restrict the usage of coal as a source of fuel in generating electricity, BNSF’s revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. As a common carrier, BNSF is also required to transport TIH chemicals and other hazardous materials. An accidental release of these commodities could expose BNSF to significant claims, losses, penalties and environmental remediation obligations.  

Increased economic regulation of the rail industry could negatively impact BNSF’s ability to determine prices for rail services and to make capital improvements to its rail network, resulting in an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  

Utilities and Energy Businesses  

For the most part, our utilities and energy businesses, which generate, transmit and distribute electricity and transport, store and distribute natural gas, are highly regulated by numerous federal, state, local and foreign governmental authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions in which they operate. These regulations are complex, dynamic and may be subject to new interpretations or change. Regulations affect almost every aspect of our utilities and energy businesses, have broad application and limit their ability to independently make and implement management decisions regarding numerous matters, including acquiring businesses; constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets; operating generating facilities and the transmission and distribution assets; complying with pipeline safety and integrity and environmental requirements; setting rates charged to customers; establishing capital structures and issuing debt or equity securities; transacting between our domestic utilities and our other subsidiaries and affiliates; and paying dividends. New legislation, regulation, reinterpretations of existing regulation, such as those relating to air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, emissions performance standards, climate change, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters, or the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant adverse impact on our financial results.  

Our utilities and energy business requires significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and maintain sufficient generation, transmission and distribution systems. Usually, large amounts of borrowed funds are required to capitalize these businesses and additional borrowed funds may not be available at economically favorable terms. Additionally, such systems may need to be operational for very long periods of time in order to justify the financial investment. The risk of operational or financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers.  

Our Class B common stock is not convertible and has a lower vote and stock price than our Class A common stock.  

Each share of Class A common stock is currently convertible into 1,500 shares of Class B common stock, but shares of Class B common stock are not convertible into shares of Class A common stock or any other security. Although a share of Class B common stock may sell below one-fifteen-hundredth of the market price for a share of Class A common stock, it is unlikely that a share of Class B common stock will sell significantly above 1/1,500 of the market price for a share of Class A common stock because higher prices than that would cause arbitrage activity to ensue. Also, holders of Class A common stock are entitled to one vote, but holders of Class B common stock are currently entitled to only 1/10,000 of a vote for each Class B share on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Regulatory changes may adversely impact our future operating results.  

In recent years, partially in response to the financial markets crises and the global economic recession, regulatory initiatives have accelerated in the United States and abroad. Such initiatives address for example, the regulation of banks and other major financial institutions, environmental and global-warming matters and health care reform. It is not yet clear whether or not these initiatives will result in significant changes to existing laws and regulations. Many of the regulations associated with enacted legislation have yet to be written. These initiatives and the related costs to comply with such initiatives could have a significant negative impact on our operating businesses, as well as on the businesses that we have a significant but not controlling economic interest. Accordingly we cannot predict whether such initiatives will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

 Item 2. Description of Properties