Item 1A. Risk Factors  

Periods of Difficult Economic Conditions and Heightened Uncertainty in the Financial Markets Affect Consumer Confidence, which Can Adversely Impact our Business  

 The foodservice distribution industry is characterized by relatively high inventory turnover with relatively low profit margins and the foodservice industry is sensitive to national and regional economic conditions. From late in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, deteriorating economic conditions and heightened uncertainty in the financial markets negatively affected consumer confidence and discretionary spending. This led to reductions in the frequency of dining out and the amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. These conditions, in turn, negatively impacted our sales, as noted by our declining sequential sales trend each quarter from a positive 8.5% in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 to a negative 8.1% in the first quarter of fiscal 2010. The development of similar economic conditions in the future or permanent changes in consumer dining habits as a result of such conditions would likely negatively impact our operating results. Although economic conditions appear to have improved since the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the perceived improvement may not continue or may not result in consumers returning to their prior dining habits.  

Periods of Significant or Prolonged Inflation or Deflation Affect our Product Costs and Profitability  

 Volatile food costs have a direct impact on our industry. Prolonged periods of product cost inflation may have a negative impact on our profit margins and earnings to the extent that we are unable to pass on all or a portion of such product cost increases to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. In addition, product cost inflation may negatively impact consumer spending decisions, which could adversely impact our sales. Conversely, our business may be adversely impacted by periods of prolonged product cost deflation because we make a significant portion of our sales at prices that are based on the cost of products we sell plus a percentage markup. As a result, our profit levels may be negatively impacted during periods of product cost deflation, even though our gross profit percentage may remain relatively constant. Our estimate for the deflation in Sysco’s cost of goods was 1.5% in fiscal 2010, compared to inflation of 4.7% in fiscal 2009 and 6.0% in fiscal 2008.  

5   
Our Enterprise-wide Software Integration Project Could Experience Implementation Problems, Scheduling Delays or Cost Overages and May Not Prove to Be Cost Effective or Result in the Benefits We Anticipate, Negatively Impacting our Business, Results of Operations and Liquidity  

 In fiscal 2009, we commenced the design of an enterprise-wide project to implement an integrated software system, commonly referred to as an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system, to support a majority of our business processes and further streamline our operations. We are currently testing the ERP system and processes that have been designed and built and believe that implementation will occur across the majority of our Broadline and SYGMA operating companies beginning in fiscal 2011 and ending in fiscal 2013. ERP implementations are complex and time-consuming projects that involve substantial investments in system software and implementation activities over a multi-year timeframe. As is the case in most ERP implementations, we expect that the implementation of our ERP system will require transformation of business and financial processes in order to realize the full benefits of the project. Although we expect the investment in the Business Transformation Project to provide meaningful benefits to the company over the long-term, the costs will exceed the benefits during the early stages of implementation, including fiscal 2011. The expected costs of the project in fiscal 2011 may be greater or less than currently expected because as we begin implementation of the project, we may encounter the need for changes in design or revisions of the project calendar and budget, including the incurrence of expenses at an earlier or later time than currently anticipated. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or limitations on the extent of the business transformation during the ERP implementation process. In addition, because the implementation is expected to involve a significant capital commitment, our business, results of operations and liquidity may also be adversely affected if the ERP system, and the associated process changes, do not prove to be cost effective or do not result in the cost savings and other benefits that we anticipate.  

We May Not Be Able to Fully Compensate for Increases in Fuel Costs  

 Volatile fuel prices have a direct impact on our industry. The cost of fuel affects the price paid by us for products as well as the costs incurred by us to deliver products to our customers. Although we have been able to pass along a portion of increased fuel costs to our customers in the past, there is no guarantee that we can do so again if another period of high fuel costs occurs. If fuel costs increase again in the future, we may experience difficulties in passing all or a portion of these costs along to our customers, which may have a negative impact on our business and our profitability. From time to time, we enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements at prices equal to the then-current market price for diesel. If fuel prices decrease significantly, these forward purchases may prove ineffective and result in us paying higher than market costs for a portion of our diesel fuel.  

Conditions Beyond our Control can Interrupt our Supplies and Increase our Product Costs  

 We obtain substantially all of our foodservice and related products from third party suppliers. For the most part, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to provide products to us. Although our purchasing volume can provide leverage when dealing with suppliers, suppliers may not provide the foodservice products and supplies needed by us in the quantities and at the prices requested. We are also subject to delays caused by interruption in production and increases in product costs based on conditions outside of our control. These conditions include work slowdowns, work interruptions, strikes or other job actions by employees of suppliers, short-term weather conditions or more prolonged climate change, crop conditions, product recalls, water shortages, transportation interruptions, unavailability of fuel or increases in fuel costs, competitive demands and natural disasters or other catastrophic events (including, but not limited to food-borne illnesses). Our inability to obtain adequate supplies of foodservice and related products as a result of any of the foregoing factors or otherwise could mean that we could not fulfill our obligations to customers, and customers may turn to other distributors.  

Adverse Publicity about us or Lack of Confidence in our Products Could Negatively Impact our Reputation and Reduce Earnings  

 Maintaining a good reputation and public confidence in the safety of the products we distribute is critical to our business, particularly to selling Sysco Brand products. Anything that damages that reputation or the public’s confidence in our products, whether or not justified, including adverse publicity about the quality, safety or integrity of our products, could quickly affect our revenues and profits. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses, such as e-coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella, and injuries caused by food tampering could also severely injure our reputation or negatively impact the public’s confidence in our products. If patrons of our restaurant customers become ill from food-borne illnesses, our customers could be forced to temporarily close restaurant locations and our sales and profitability would be correspondingly decreased. In addition, instances of food-borne illnesses or food tampering or other health concerns, such as flu epidemics or other pandemics, even those unrelated to the use of Sysco products, or public concern regarding the safety of our products, can result in negative publicity about the food service distribution industry and cause our sales and profitability to decrease dramatically.  

6   
Product Liability Claims Could Materially Impact our Business  

 We, like any other seller of food, face the risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that the use of products sold by Sysco causes injury or illness. With respect to product liability claims, we believe we have sufficient primary or excess umbrella liability insurance. However, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost or, if available, may not be adequate to cover all of our liabilities. We generally seek contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from parties supplying our products, but this indemnification or insurance coverage is limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party and the insured limits of any insurance provided by suppliers. If Sysco does not have adequate insurance or contractual indemnification available, product liability relating to defective products could materially reduce our net earnings and earnings per share.  

Expanding into International Markets and Complimentary Lines of Business Presents Unique Challenges, and our Expansion Efforts with respect to International Operations and Complimentary Lines of Business may not be Successful  

 In addition to our domestic activities, an element of our strategy includes the possibility of further expansion of operations into international markets. Our ability to successfully operate in international markets may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, political and economic conditions and currency regulations of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Risks inherent in our existing and future international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, difficulties in identifying and gaining access to local suppliers, suffering possible adverse tax consequences, maintaining product quality and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future sales and cash flows from our international operations.  

 Another element of our strategy includes the possibility of expansion into businesses that are closely related or complimentary to, but not currently part of, our core foodservice distribution business. Our ability to successfully operate in these complimentary business markets may be adversely affected by legal and regulatory constraints, including compliance with regulatory programs to which we become subject. Risks inherent in branching out into such complimentary markets also include the costs and difficulties of managing operations outside of our core business, which may require additional skills and competencies, as well as difficulties in identifying and gaining access to suppliers or customers in new markets.  

We Must Finance and Integrate Acquired Businesses Effectively  

 Historically, a portion of our growth has come through acquisitions. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses successfully or realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, our earnings per share may decrease. Integration of an acquired business may be more difficult when we acquire a business in a market in which we have limited expertise, or with a culture different from Sysco’s. A significant expansion of our business and operations, in terms of geography or magnitude, could strain our administrative and operational resources. Significant acquisitions may also require the issuance of material additional amounts of debt or equity, which could materially alter our debt to equity ratio, increase our interest expense and decrease earnings per share, and make it difficult for us to obtain favorable financing for other acquisitions or capital investments.  

We Need Access to Borrowed Funds in Order to Grow and Any Default by Us Under our Indebtedness Could Have a Material Adverse Impact  

 A substantial part of our growth historically has been the result of acquisitions and capital expansion. We anticipate additional acquisitions and capital expansion in the future. As a result, our inability to finance acquisitions and capital expenditures through borrowed funds could restrict our ability to expand. Moreover, any default under the documents governing our indebtedness could have a significant adverse effect on our cash flows, as well as the market value of our common stock.  

Technology Dependence Could have a Material Negative Impact on our Business  

 Our ability to decrease costs and increase profits, as well as our ability to serve customers most effectively, depends on the reliability of our technology network. We use software and other technology systems, among other things, to generate and select orders, to load and route trucks and to monitor and manage our business on a day-to-day basis. Any disruption to these computer systems could adversely impact our customer service, decrease the volume of our business and result in increased costs. Furthermore, process changes may be required as we continue to use our existing warehousing, delivery, and payroll systems to support operations as we implement the ERP system. While Sysco has invested and continues to invest in technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate us from technology disruption that could result in adverse effects on operations and profits.  

7   
We may be Required to Pay Material Amounts Under Multi-Employer Defined Benefit Pension Plans  

 We contribute to several multi-employer defined benefit pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements covering union-represented employees. Approximately 11% of our current employees are participants in such multi-employer plans. In fiscal 2010, our total contributions to these plans, which include payments for voluntary withdrawals, were approximately $51.5 million.  

 We do not directly manage these multi-employer plans, which are generally managed by boards of trustees, half of whom are appointed by the unions and the other half by other contributing employers to the plan. Based upon the information available to us from plan administrators, we believe that several of these multi-employer plans are underfunded. In addition, the Pension Protection Act, enacted in August 2006, requires underfunded pension plans to improve their funding ratios within prescribed intervals based on the level of their underfunding. As a result, we expect our required contributions to these plans to increase in the future.  

 Under current law regarding multi-employer defined benefit plans, a plan’s termination, our voluntary withdrawal, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multi-employer defined benefit plan would require us to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the multi-employer plan’s unfunded vested liabilities. Based on the information currently available from plan administrators, which has valuation dates ranging from January 31, 2008 to June 30, 2009, Sysco estimates its share of the aggregate withdrawal liability on most of the multi-employer plans in which it participates could have been as much as $183.0 million as of July 3, 2010 based on a voluntary withdrawal. The majority of the plans we participate in have a valuation date of calendar year-end. As such, the majority of our estimated withdrawal liability results from plans for which the valuation date was December 31, 2008; therefore, our estimated liability reflects the asset losses incurred by the financial markets as of that date. In general, the financial markets improved during calendar year 2009; therefore, we believe our current share of the withdrawal liability could differ from this estimate. In addition, if a multi-employer defined benefit plan fails to satisfy certain minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) may impose a nondeductible excise tax of 5% on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency for those employers contributing to the fund. As of July 3, 2010, Sysco had approximately $0.9 million in liabilities recorded in total related to certain multi-employer defined benefit plans for which our voluntary withdrawal has already occurred. Requirements to pay such increased contributions, withdrawal liability, and excise taxes could negatively impact our liquidity and results of operations.  

Our Funding of our Company-Sponsored Pension Plans may Increase and our Earnings May Decrease Should Financial Markets and the Value of our Company Owned Life Insurance Experience Future Declines  

 Our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the returns on the plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. Our expense is also impacted by these items. Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet at fiscal year-end, which is when this plan’s funded status is measured. Also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets as these are inputs in determining our discount rate at fiscal year-end. Specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. To the extent financial markets experience future declines similar to those experienced in fiscal 2008 through the beginning of fiscal 2010, and/or interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets decline, our contributions and pension expense may increase for future years as our funded status decreases, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations.  

 Sysco invests in corporate-owned life insurance policies in order to fund certain retirement programs which are subject to market risk. The value of our investments in corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policies is largely based on the values of underlying investments, which include publicly traded securities. Therefore, the value of these policies will be adjusted each period based on the performance of the underlying securities which has in the past resulted, and could in the future further result, in volatility in our earnings. As of July 3, 2010, our investments in COLI policies were valued at $203.2 million. During periods of significant declines in the financial markets, we experienced significant losses in adjusting the carrying value of these policies to their cash surrender values. Should the financial markets suffer significant declines again in the future, we would take additional charges to adjust the carrying value of our COLI policies, which would increase our operating expenses, and adversely impact our net earnings and earnings per share.  

Failure to Successfully Renegotiate Union Contracts Could Result in Work Stoppages  

 As of July 3, 2010, approximately 8,400 employees at 51 operating companies were members of 55 different local unions associated with the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and other labor organizations. In fiscal 2011, 12 agreements covering approximately 2,400 employees have expired or will expire. Since July 3, 2010, two contracts covering 452 of the 2,400 employees have been renegotiated. Failure of our operating companies to effectively renegotiate these contracts could result in work stoppages. Although our operating subsidiaries have not experienced any significant labor disputes or work  

8   
stoppages to date, and we believe they have satisfactory relationships with their unions, a work stoppage due to failure of multiple operating subsidiaries to renegotiate union contracts could have a material adverse effect on us.  

A Shortage of Qualified Labor Could Negatively Impact our Business and Materially Reduce Earnings  

 Our operations rely heavily on our employees, particularly drivers, and any shortage of qualified labor could significantly affect our business. Our recruiting and retention efforts and efforts to increase productivity gains may not be successful and there may be a shortage of qualified drivers in future periods. Any such shortage would decrease Sysco’s ability to effectively serve our customers. Such a shortage would also likely lead to higher wages for employees and a corresponding reduction in our net earnings.  

Our Preferred Stock Provides Anti-Takeover Benefits that may not be Viewed as Beneficial to Stockholders  

 Under our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Sysco’s Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,500,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Issuance of these shares could make it more difficult for anyone to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors, depending on the rights and preferences of the stock issued. In addition, if anyone attempts to acquire Sysco without approval of the Board of Directors of Sysco, the existence of this undesignated preferred stock could allow the Board of Directors to adopt a shareholder rights plan without obtaining stockholder approval, which could result in substantial dilution to a potential acquirer. As a result, hostile takeover attempts that might result in an acquisition of Sysco, that could otherwise have been financially beneficial to our stockholders, could be deterred.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

 None.  

9   
Item 2. Properties