Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Interest Rate Risk  

 We do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. Our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. Floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. Fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates.  

 We manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. The major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions.  

Fiscal 2010  

 As of July 3, 2010, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our long-term debt obligations as of July 3, 2010 were $2.5 billion, of which approximately 81% were at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements.  

 In September 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $200.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2014 to floating rate debt (2014 swap). In October 2009, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively converted $250.0 million of fixed rate debt maturing in fiscal 2013 to floating rate debt (2013 swap). Both transactions were entered into with the goal of reducing overall borrowing cost and increasing floating interest rate exposure. The major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions. These transactions were designated as fair value hedges since the swaps hedge against the changes in fair value of fixed rate debt resulting from changes in interest rates.  

 As of July 3, 2010, the 2014 swap was recognized as an asset within the consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $5.5 million. The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.6% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly. As of July 3, 2010, the 2013 swap was recognized as an asset within the  

36   
consolidated balance sheet at fair value within other assets of $5.5 million. The fixed interest rate on the hedged debt is 4.2% and the floating interest rate on the swap is three-month LIBOR which resets quarterly.  

 The following tables present our interest rate position as of July 3, 2010. All amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 (1)   Includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through interest rate swap agreements.   

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Rate A — three-month LIBOR  

Fiscal 2009  

 As of June 27, 2009, we had no commercial paper outstanding. Our long-term debt obligations as of June 27, 2009 were $2.5 billion, of which approximately 99% were at fixed rates of interest. We had no interest rate swaps outstanding as of June 27, 2009.  

 The following table presents our interest rate position as of June 27, 2009. All amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

37   
Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk  

 The majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. To the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary’s functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders’ equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. The changes in the exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.9% in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009 and negatively impacted sales by 1.2% in fiscal 2009 compared to fiscal 2008. The impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009. A 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2010 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2010 sales by 0.2% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. We do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks.  

 Our Canadian financing subsidiary has the U.S. dollar as its functional currency and has notes denominated in U.S. dollars. We have the potential to create taxable income in Canada when this debt is paid due to changes in the exchange rate from the inception of the debt through the payment date. A 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2010 year-end exchange rate and the resulting increase in the tax liability associated with these notes would not have a material impact on our results of operations.  

Fuel Price Risk  

 Due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. The price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. Increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. First, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. Second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. Third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. During fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.6%, 0.8% and 0.7% of sales, respectively. Fuel costs, excluding any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, incurred by Sysco decreased by approximately $71.8 million in fiscal 2010 from fiscal 2009 and increased by $33.2 million in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008.  

 From time to time, we will enter into forward purchase commitments for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. As of July 3, 2010, we had forward diesel fuel commitments totaling approximately $93.0 million through September 2011. These contracts will lock in the price of approximately 30% to 35% of our fuel purchase needs for the contracted periods at prices slightly lower than the current market price for diesel.  

 Fuel costs in fiscal 2011, exclusive of any amounts recovered through fuel surcharges, are expected to increase by approximately $10 million to $20 million as compared to fiscal 2010. Our estimate is based upon current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel, the cost committed to in our forward fuel purchase agreements currently in place for fiscal 2011 and estimates of fuel consumption. Actual fuel costs could vary from our estimates if any of these assumptions change, in particular if future fuel prices vary significantly from our current estimates. A 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price used in our estimates above would change the range of potential increase to $25 million to $35 million.  

Investment Risk  

 Sysco invests in corporate-owned life insurance policies in order to fund certain retirement programs which are subject to market risk. The value of our investments in corporate-owned life insurance policies is largely based on the values of underlying investments, which include publicly traded securities. Therefore, the value of these policies will be adjusted each period based on the performance of the underlying securities which could result in volatility in our earnings. Should the financial markets decline, we would take charges to adjust the carrying value of our corporate-owned life insurance, and if the market declines are significant, these charges could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse impact on our operating expenses, net income and earnings per share. A 10% unfavorable change in publicly traded securities held within our investments in corporate-owned life insurance would not have a material impact on our operating expenses, net income and earnings per share.  

 Our company-sponsored qualified pension plan (Retirement Plan) holds investments in both equity and fixed income securities. The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and pension expense to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan’s funded status is measured. Also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. Specifically, decreases in these interest rates may have a material impact on our results of operations. To the extent the  

38   
financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions, pension expense and funded status will be affected for future years. A 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored Retirement Plan at the plan’s fiscal year end (December 31, 2009) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2011; however, this unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2011 by $31.6 million and would reduce our shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of July 3, 2010 by $102.7 million.  

39   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data