PART I  

 ITEM 1. Business  

General  

Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading provider of specialty contracting services, offering infrastructure solutions primarily to the electric power and oil and gas industries in the United States, Canada and Australia and select other international markets. The services we provide include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks, substation facilities, renewable energy facilities, pipeline transmission and distribution systems and facilities, and infrastructure services for the offshore and inland water energy markets. We also own fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and license the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to customers.  

We report our results under three reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services, (2) Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services and (3) Fiber Optic Licensing and Other. This structure is generally focused on broad end-user markets for our services. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014 were approximately $7.85 billion, of which 67% was attributable to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, 31% to the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment and 2% to the Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment.  

We have established a presence throughout the United States, Canada and Australia with a workforce of approximately 24,600 employees as of December 31, 2014, which enables us to quickly, reliably and cost-effectively serve a diversified customer base. We believe our reputation for responsiveness and performance, geographic reach, comprehensive service offering, safety leadership and financial strength have resulted in strong relationships with numerous customers, which include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. Our ability to deploy services to customers throughout the United States, Canada and Australia as a result of our broad geographic presence and significant scope and scale of services is particularly important to our customers who operate networks that span multiple states or regions. We believe these same factors also position us to continue to take advantage of other international opportunities.  

Representative customers include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We were organized as a corporation in the state of Delaware in 1997, and since that time we have grown organically and have made strategic acquisitions, expanding our geographic presence and scope of services and developing new capabilities to meet our customers’ evolving needs.  

We believe that our business strategies, along with our competitive and financial strengths, are key elements in differentiating us from our competition and position us to capitalize on future capital spending by our customers. We offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a broad geographic scale and have a solid base of long-standing customer relationships in each of the industries we serve. We also have an experienced management team, both at the executive level and within our operating units, and various proprietary technologies that enhance our service offerings. Our strategies of expanding the portfolio of services we provide to our existing and potential customer base, increasing our geographic and technological capabilities, promoting best practices and cross-selling our services to our customers, as well as continuing to maintain our financial strength, place us in the position to capitalize on opportunities and trends in the industries we serve and to expand our operations globally. We continue to evaluate potential acquisitions of companies with strong management teams and good reputations and believe that our financial strength and experienced management team is attractive to potential acquisition targets.  

We and our customers continue to operate in an uncertain business environment, and although there has been gradual improvement in the economy, our customers continue to face heightened regulatory and environmental requirements as they implement projects to enhance and expand their infrastructure. These economic and regulatory factors have negatively affected the timing of demand for our services in the past and may create uncertainty with regard to anticipated customer spending in future periods. We cannot definitively predict the timing or magnitude of the effect that industry trends may have on our business, particularly in the near-term. However, in recent periods we have experienced an increase in project awards and demand for our services, and many projects that had been negatively impacted by regulatory delays have overcome those challenges and commenced construction.  

On December 3, 2012, we sold substantially all of our domestic telecommunications infrastructure services operations and related subsidiaries. Accordingly, we have presented the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of such telecommunications subsidiaries as discontinued operations for all applicable periods presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Reportable Segments  

The following is an overview of the types of services provided by each of our reportable segments and certain of the long-term industry trends impacting each segment.  

Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment  

The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric power industry. Services performed by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment  

3  

Table of Contents 

 generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission and distribution infrastructure and substation facilities along with other engineering and technical services. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including the repair of infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our proprietary robotic arm technologies, and the installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric power networks. In addition, this segment designs, installs and maintains renewable energy generation facilities, consisting of solar, wind and certain types of natural gas generation facilities, and related switchyards and transmission infrastructure to transport power to demand centers. To a lesser extent, this segment provides services such as the construction of electric power generation facilities, the design, installation, maintenance and repair of commercial and industrial wiring, installation of traffic networks and the installation of cable and control systems for light rail lines.  

Several industry trends provide opportunities for growth in demand for the services provided by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, including the need to improve the reliability of aging power infrastructure, the expected long-term increase in demand for electric power and the incorporation of renewable generation and other new power generation sources into the North American power grid. We believe that we are the partner of choice for our electric power and renewable energy customers in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources.  

Demand for electricity in North America is expected to grow over the long term. North America’s electric power grid was not designed or constructed to serve today’s power needs and is not adequate to serve the power needs of the future. The electric power grid is aging, continues to deteriorate and lacks redundancy. The increasing demand for electricity, coupled with the aging infrastructure, has affected and will continue to affect reliability, requiring utilities to upgrade and expand their existing transmission and distribution systems. Current federal legislation also requires the power industry to meet federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems. These system upgrades are resulting in increased spending and increased demand for our services in the near-term, and we expect this will continue over the long-term as well.  

As demand for power grows, the need for new power generation facilities will grow as well. The future development of new traditional power generation facilities, as well as renewable energy sources such as solar, wind and certain types of natural gas generation facilities, will require new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport power to demand centers. Renewable energy in particular often requires significant transmission infrastructure due to the remote location of renewable sources of energy. As a result, we anticipate that future development of new power generation will lead to increased demand over the long-term for our electric transmission design and construction services as well as our substation engineering and installation services.  

The significant improvement in access to natural gas resources from unconventional shale formations in the United States and Canada, driven by technological advancements, has dramatically increased the near- and long-term supply of natural gas in North America. This increase in supply has also resulted in low natural gas prices for the past several years and the anticipation that natural gas prices will remain at lower levels going forward. As a result, it is anticipated that the amount of electricity generated by natural gas powered plants will increase and the majority of new fossil fuel generation facilities built in North America for the foreseeable future will be fueled by natural gas. Further, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has implemented certain emissions regulations that are resulting in the development of natural gas generation facilities to replace coal generation plants that are being retired in order to comply with the new regulations. These dynamics are anticipated to result in the need for new transmission and substation infrastructure to be built in North America to interconnect new natural gas fired generation facilities. It is also anticipated that modifications to and reengineering of existing transmission and substation infrastructure will be required when existing coal generation facilities are retired or shut down.  

We consider renewable energy, including solar, wind and certain types of natural gas generation facilities, to be an ongoing opportunity for our engineering, project management and installation services. Concerns about  

4  

Table of Contents 

 greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the goal of reducing reliance on power generation from fossil fuels, are creating the need for more renewable energy sources. Renewable portfolio standards (RPS), which mandate that renewable energy constitute a specified percentage of a utility’s power generation by a specified date, exist in many states. We believe that our comprehensive services, industry knowledge and experience in the design, installation and maintenance of renewable energy facilities will enable us to support our customers’ renewable energy efforts. Further, we have the financial strength to selectively provide financing solutions to customers in a modest but strategic way to help facilitate the development of renewable energy and other projects and also potentially create construction backlog for us.  

Certain legislative and regulatory actions may also increase demand for our electric power infrastructure services. For example, in July 2011, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued Order No. 1000, which establishes transmission planning and cost allocation requirements for public utility transmission providers that are intended to facilitate multi-state electric transmission lines. The order requires planning for transmission to occur on both a local and regional basis and to take into account transmission needs driven by public policy requirements. It also provides rules for cost allocation across areas so that transmission costs are paid for by the beneficiaries of the infrastructure to be developed. The order also removes certain rights of first refusal from FERC-approved tariffs and agreements, which is intended to encourage a more competitive marketplace for transmission infrastructure development and allow development to occur more quickly. We believe that certain legislative and regulatory actions, such as FERC Order No. 1000, which was affirmed by FERC in May 2012, with the issuance of FERC Order No. 1000-A, could have a favorable impact on the development of transmission infrastructure over the medium- and long-term, and as a result, increase demand for our electric transmission services.  

Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services Segment  

The Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive infrastructure solutions to customers involved in the development and transportation of natural gas, oil and other pipeline products. Services performed by the Oil and Gas Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of pipeline transmission and distribution systems, gathering systems, production systems and compressor and pump stations, as well as related trenching, directional boring and automatic welding services. In addition, this segment’s services include pipeline protection, integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement and fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures and facilities. We also serve the offshore and inland water energy markets, primarily providing services to oil and gas exploration platforms, including mechanical installation (or “hook-ups”), electrical and instrumentation, pre-commissioning and commissioning, coatings, fabrication, pipeline construction, integrity services and marine asset repair. To a lesser extent, this segment designs, installs and maintains fueling systems as well as water and sewer infrastructure.  

We believe there are growth opportunities in this segment, primarily in the installation and maintenance of natural gas, natural gas byproducts and oil mainline pipelines and related services for gathering systems and pipeline integrity. In particular, we believe the existing pipeline and gathering system infrastructure in North America is insufficient to support the increasing development of new sources of natural gas, oil and other liquids, from the unconventional shale formations and Canadian oil sands. We anticipate it will take a number of years to build this infrastructure and believe this need will increase demand for our services over time.  

Ongoing development of unconventional shale formations throughout North America has resulted in a significant increase in the continent’s natural gas supply as compared to several years ago. We believe the abundant natural gas supply, combined with lower gas prices, will stimulate demand for increased natural gas usage in the future. As one of the cleanest-burning fossil fuels for power generation, low-cost natural gas supports the U.S. goals of energy independence from foreign energy sources and a cleaner environment. The U.S. Energy Information Administration has stated that the number of natural gas-fired power plants built will increase significantly over the next two decades. Also, power generation from renewable energy sources continues to increase and become a larger percentage of the overall power generation mix. We also believe  

5  

Table of Contents 

 natural gas will be the fuel of choice to provide backup power generation during times when renewable energy sources are not available. Additionally, the acceptance of nuclear energy as a means of meeting the growing demand for energy in North America remains uncertain. We believe these factors will result in increasing development of natural gas power generation to meet North America’s future energy needs, which will in turn result in increased demand for natural gas production and the need for additional pipeline infrastructure to connect natural gas supplies to demand centers, increasing the demand for our services.  

The abundance, low price and long-term supply of North American natural gas is also resulting in efforts to develop liquefied natural gas (LNG) export facilities in the United States and Canada, which could provide pipeline and related facilities development opportunities for us. Natural gas prices in various international markets are significantly higher than North American natural gas prices, making the economics of exporting North American natural gas to international markets attractive. Although a number of LNG export facilities are in various stages of planning, permitting and development in the United States and Canada, and it is unlikely that all of them will be developed, we believe our comprehensive service offerings and broad geographic presence will enable us to competitively pursue these opportunities as they develop.  

We also believe there are significant mainline pipeline opportunities in Australia driven by the production of coal seam gas for LNG export. A number of LNG export facilities are under construction and proposed for development, and pipelines and related infrastructure will be required to serve these facilities. In addition, unconventional shale formations in Australia are in the early stages of exploration and development and will require construction of significant gathering, mainline pipe and related infrastructure. Through an acquisition in Australia in 2013, we further expanded our presence in this region and competitively positioned ourselves to meet Australia’s increasing infrastructure needs.  

Additional pipeline infrastructure is also needed for the transportation of crude oil and other liquids from unconventional shale formations in the United States and Canada. Heavy crude oil from the Canadian oil sands is being developed and requires pipelines to be built to take the product to refineries, many of which are in the coastal region along the Gulf of Mexico, and to the east and west coasts of Canada for export to foreign markets. Canadian oil sands and shale formations in certain parts of the United States and Canada contain significant reserves, and the economics of producing these reserves depend on the price of oil. Oil prices have declined significantly over the past several months. The recent decline in oil prices has created uncertainty with respect to the demand for our oil and gas infrastructure services in the near term, and it is also uncertain if, or for how long, oil prices will remain at lower levels. Over time, we expect that, as the current oversupply of global oil corrects and global demand for oil increases, oil prices could recover from current levels. We believe that, at a minimum, medium and long term production of oil from North American unconventional shale formations and the Canadian oil sands will continue, which will create demand for our infrastructure services over time.  

We believe there are meaningful long-term opportunities for us to penetrate the offshore and inland water energy markets in providing various infrastructure design, installation and maintenance services primarily to the Gulf of Mexico region but also in select international markets. The offshore service opportunities we see are very similar to what we perform onshore in this segment, and several of our existing onshore customers who also have offshore assets have expressed interest in our ability to provide offshore services. Demand for offshore energy infrastructure services is similar to that on land, including the need for engineering, construction and maintenance services for new and existing offshore exploration and production platforms. In addition, the majority of the thousands of miles of marine based pipelines and related production facilities are approaching or are beyond the end of their useful lives. We see this as an opportunity to leverage our onshore pipeline integrity services and technology to the offshore market’s aging infrastructure. Further, we believe new regulations and the more stringent enforcement of existing regulations administered by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement may create opportunities for offshore energy infrastructure construction, repair and replacement services.  

6  

Table of Contents 

As a result of recent significant pipeline incidents in the United States, federal and state regulatory agencies are implementing new pipeline safety rules and increasing enforcement activities. The U.S. Department of Transportation has implemented significant regulatory legislation through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration relating to pipeline integrity requirements. Testing is expected to become more frequent, extensive and invasive, and more information will be available regarding the condition of the United States’ pipeline infrastructure. As a result, we anticipate a significant increase in spending allocated to pipeline integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement services, and an increase in demand for the related services we provide over the coming years. We expect companies will increasingly seek out service providers that can provide a turnkey management solution. We believe we are one of the few companies in North America that offers a complete solution for pipeline companies and gas utilities as they focus on testing, rehabilitating and replacing their pipeline infrastructure.  

Fiber Optic Licensing and Other Segment  

The Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment designs, procures, constructs, maintains and owns fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and licenses the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to our customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic network, with the network owned and maintained by us. We are also expanding our service offerings to provide lit services, with Quanta providing network management services to customers as well as owning the electronic equipment necessary to make the fiber optic network operational. We believe market opportunities exist for lit services that will enable us to leverage capacities of our dark fiber networks, as well as providing other attractive growth opportunities. The Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment provides services to communication carriers, as well as education, financial services, healthcare and other business enterprises with high bandwidth telecommunication needs. The telecommunication services provided through this segment are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and certain state public utility commissions. The Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment also provides various telecommunication infrastructure services on a limited and ancillary basis, primarily to our customers in the electric power industry.  

The growth opportunities in our Fiber Optic Licensing and Other segment include the continued investment in our dark fiber networks to serve customers within existing markets and to expand into new geographic regions, as well as the expansion into lit services. We see opportunities for lit services for customers in multiple institutional sectors, including communications carriers as well as education, financial services, healthcare and other business enterprises. These growth opportunities exist in both the markets we currently serve, by expanding our existing network to add new customers, and expansion into new markets through the build-out of new networks. This expected growth will require significant capital expenditures to support our network expansion efforts.  

Financial Information about Geographic Areas  

We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived $1.89 billion, $1.31 billion and $861.5 million of our revenues from foreign operations during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Of our foreign revenues, approximately 82%, 86% and 96% were earned in Canada during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. In addition, we held property and equipment in the amount of $372.9 million and $196.8 million in foreign countries, primarily Canada, as of December 31, 2014 and 2013.  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations in foreign countries may be adversely impacted by monetary and fiscal policies, currency fluctuations, regulatory requirements and other political, social and economic developments or instability. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider Relationships  

Our customers include electric power and oil and gas companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. We have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 32% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2014. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 6% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2014.  

Although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. Our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. Many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. Additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. We encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. Our business development group supports the operating units’ activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units.  

We are a preferred vendor for many of our customers. As a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. We strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer.  

We believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power and oil and gas industries will continue to result in future opportunities. Many of these relationships take the form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. Strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. Strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years and may include renewal options to extend the initial term.  

Backlog  

Backlog is not a term recognized under United States generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP); however, it is a common measurement used in our industry. Our methodology for determining backlog may not be comparable to the methodologies used by other companies.  

Our backlog represents the amount of consolidated revenue that we expect to realize from future work under construction contracts, long-term maintenance contracts, master service agreements (MSAs) and licensing agreements. These estimates include revenues from the remaining portion of firm orders not yet completed and on which work has not yet begun, as well as revenues from change orders, renewal options, and funded and unfunded portions of government contracts to the extent that they are reasonably expected to occur. For purposes of calculating backlog, we include 100% of estimated revenues attributable to consolidated joint ventures and variable interest entities (VIEs). The following table presents our total backlog by reportable segment as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

8  

Table of Contents 

Revenue estimates included in our backlog can be subject to change as a result of project accelerations, cancellations or delays due to various factors, including but not limited to commercial issues, regulatory requirements and adverse weather. These factors can also cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods and at levels different than originally projected. Generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and while we did not experience any material cancellations during the current periods, most of our contracts may be terminated, typically upon 30 to 90 days notice, even if we are not in default under the contract. We determine the estimated amount of backlog for work under MSAs by using recurring historical trends inherent in current MSAs, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. In addition, many of our MSAs, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. As of December 31, 2014 and 2013, MSAs accounted for approximately 38% and 31% of our estimated 12 month backlog and approximately 45% and 44% of total backlog. There can be no assurance as to our customers’ actual requirements or that our estimates are accurate.  

Competition  

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. We believe that as demand for our services increases, customers often consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. In addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. There can be no assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, oil and gas and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. Although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by many of our customers, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource these services in the future.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 24,600 employees, consisting of approximately 3,900 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 20,700 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. Approximately 52% of our hourly employees at December 31, 2014 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), the Canadian Union Skilled Workers (CUSW), Australia Workers’ Union and the four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the Pipe Line Contractors Association (PLCA), which are the Laborers International Union of North America, International Brotherhood of Teamsters (Teamsters), United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters and the International Union of Operating Engineers. These collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than us sponsoring or administering the benefit programs provided on behalf of our employees. These collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. The majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewals, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement.  

9  

Table of Contents 

We provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We also have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law.  

Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. In response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various IBEW and National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) training programs and support the joint IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program which trains qualified electrical workers. Certain of our Canadian operations also support the CUSW’s apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. We have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor for employees not subject to the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs.  

We believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good.  

Materials  

Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. As we continue to expand our comprehensive engineering, procurement and construction offerings, particularly associated with utility scale solar projects, the cost of materials may become a proportionately larger component of our consolidated cost of services. We purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials.  

Training, Quality Assurance and Safety  

Performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. Although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. Our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the PLCA, the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the CUSW or our equivalent programs. Under the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 144 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. Certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program. Similarly, the CUSW offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. In addition, the Laborers International Union of North America, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters and the International Union of Operating Engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. Our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Regulation  

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including:  

   •   licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers;  

   •   regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection;  

   •   permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects;  

   •   wage and hour regulations;  

   •   regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements;  

   •   building and electrical codes;  

   •   telecommunications regulations relating to our fiber optic licensing business; and  

   •   special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects.  

We believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities.  

Environmental Matters and Climate Change Impacts  

We are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Our contracts with our customers may also impose liabilities on us regarding environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services.  

From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.  

The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. Climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensities and temperature levels. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 1A. Risk Factors, our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. Therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. For example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. In addition,  

11  

Table of Contents 

 if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. Conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins.  

Risk Management and Insurance  

We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. Under these programs, the deductibles were $10.0 million per occurrence for general liability and auto liability, $5.0 million per occurrence for workers’ compensation, and $1.0 million per occurrence for employer’s liability for the policy years 2014-2015 and 2013-2014. For the 2012-2013 policy year, the deductibles were $5.0 million per occurrence for general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation and $1.0 million per occurrence for employer’s liability. We are generally self-insured for all claims that do not exceed the amount of the applicable deductible. In connection with our casualty insurance programs, we are required to issue letters of credit to secure our self-insured obligations. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $375,000 per claimant per year.  

Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate.  

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage exceeds the additional benefits obtained. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Seasonality and Cyclicality  

Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules, and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions can cause delays on projects. In addition, many of our customers develop their capital budgets for the coming year during the first quarter and do not begin infrastructure projects in a meaningful way until their capital budgets are finalized. Second quarter revenues are typically higher than those in the first quarter, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. Third quarter revenues are typically the highest of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating. Generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. Any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in any of the areas we serve, such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations and their effect on particular projects quarter to quarter. The timing of project awards and unanticipated changes in project schedules as a result of delays or accelerations can also create variations in the level of operating activity from quarter to quarter.  

12  

Table of Contents 

These seasonal impacts are typical for our U.S. operations, but as our foreign operations continue to grow, we may see a lessening of this pattern impacting our quarterly revenues. For example, revenues in Canada are often higher in the first quarter as projects are accelerated so that work can be completed prior to the break up, or seasonal thaw, as productivity is adversely affected by wet ground conditions during the warmer spring and summer months. Also, although revenues from Australia and other international operations have not been significant relative to our overall revenues to date, their seasonal patterns may differ from those in North America and may impact our seasonality more in the future.  

Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions, including the United States, Canada and Australia. Project schedules, particularly in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions, dispositions, fluctuations in our equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated affiliates, impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, long-lived assets or investments and interest rate fluctuations are examples of items that may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. You should read Outlook and Understanding Margins included in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Website Access and Other Information  

Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. Interested parties may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading Investors & Media/SEC Filings or through the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) at www.sec.gov. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters of each of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Governance and Nominating Committee and Investment Committee are posted on our website under the heading Investors & Media/Corporate Governance. We intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. Free copies of these items may be obtained from our website. We will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC. For copies of this or any other Quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to Quanta Services, Inc., Attn: Corporate Secretary, 2800 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 2600, Houston, TX 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. We cannot provide assurance that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. No information on our website is incorporated by reference herein.  

 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors