ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Our ability to become consistently profitable and our ability to continue to fund our obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of risk factors, many of which are largely beyond our control. Some of the factors that may have a negative impact on us are described below: 

As a result of significant losses in recent years, our financial condition has been materially weakened. 

We incurred significant losses in recent prior years: $857 million in 2005, $751 million in 2004, $1.2 billion in 2003, $3.5 billion in 2002 and $1.8 billion in 2001. As a result, our financial condition was materially weakened, and although we earned a profit in 2007 and 2006, we remain vulnerable both to unexpected events (such as additional terrorist attacks or a sudden spike in jet fuel prices) and to general declines in the operating environment (such as that resulting from a recession or significant increased competition). 

Our initiatives to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs may not be adequate or successful. 

As we seek to improve our financial condition, we must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce our costs. Although we have a number of initiatives underway to address our cost and revenue challenges, some of these initiatives involve changes to our business which we may be unable to implement. In addition, we expect that, as time goes on, it will be progressively more difficult to identify and implement significant revenue enhancement and cost savings initiatives. The adequacy and ultimate success of our initiatives to generate additional revenues and reduce our costs are not known at this time and cannot be assured. Moreover, whether our initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond our control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield and industry capacity growth, and fuel prices. Given the competitive challenges we face and other factors, such as high fuel prices, that are beyond our control, we must continue to aggressively pursue profit improvement initiatives to achieve long-term success. 

Our business is affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, and our results of operations tend to be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality. 

Our business and our results of operations are affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including among others: 

  ·    actual or potential changes in international, national, regional and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation and higher interest rates, war, terrorist attacks or political instability;     

  ·    changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns or demographic trends;     

  ·    changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation and other factors;     

  ·    actual or potential disruptions to the air traffic control system;     

  ·    increases in costs of safety, security and environmental measures;     

  ·    outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and     

  ·    weather and natural disasters.     

As a result, our results of operations tend to be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. In addition, due to generally greater demand for air travel during the summer, our revenues in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be stronger than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. 

Our indebtedness and other obligations are substantial and could adversely affect our business and liquidity. 

We have and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness and obligations to make future payments on aircraft equipment and property leases, and a high proportion of debt to equity capital. We may incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, and lease obligations in the future. We also have substantial pension funding obligations. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations could have important consequences. For example, they could: 

  ·    limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes, or adversely affect the terms on which such financing could be obtained;     

  ·    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;     

  ·    make us more vulnerable to economic downturns;     

  ·    limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; or     

  ·    limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate.     

We may be unable to comply with our financial covenants. 

American has a secured bank credit facility which consists of an undrawn $255 million revolving credit facility with a final maturity on June 17, 2009, and a fully drawn $440 million term loan facility, with a final maturity on December 17, 2010 (the Revolving Facility and the Term Loan Facility, respectively, and collectively, the Credit Facility). The Credit Facility contains a liquidity covenant and a ratio of cash flow to fixed charges covenant. We complied with these covenants as of December 31, 2007 and expect to be able to continue to comply with these covenants. However, given fuel prices that are high by historical standards and the volatility of fuel prices and revenues, it is difficult to assess whether we will, in fact, be able to continue to comply with these covenants, and there are no assurances that we will be able to do so. Failure to comply with these covenants would result in a default under the Credit Facility which - - if we did not take steps to obtain a waiver of, or otherwise mitigate, the default - - could result in a default under a significant amount of our other debt and lease obligations, and otherwise have a material adverse impact on us. 

We are being adversely affected by increases in fuel prices, and we would be adversely affected by disruptions in the supply of fuel. 

Our results are very significantly affected by the price and availability of jet fuel, which are in turn affected by a number of factors beyond our control. Fuel prices are volatile, increased significantly in 2007, and remain very high by historical standards. 

Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry, we may not be able to pass on increased fuel prices to customers by increasing fares. In fact, recent history would indicate that we have limited ability to pass along the increased costs of fuel. If fuel prices decline in the future, increased fare competition and lower revenues may offset any potential benefit of lower fuel prices. 

While we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in fuel availability, dependency on foreign imports of crude oil, limited refining capacity and the possibility of changes in government policy on jet fuel production, transportation and marketing make it impossible to predict the future availability of jet fuel. If there are additional outbreaks of hostilities or other conflicts in oil producing areas or elsewhere, or a reduction in refining capacity (due to weather events, for example), or governmental limits on the production or sale of jet fuel, there could be reductions in the supply of jet fuel and significant increases in the cost of jet fuel. Major reductions in the availability of jet fuel or significant increases in its cost, or a continuation of current high prices for a significant period of time, would have a material adverse impact on us. 

While we seek to manage the price risk of fuel costs by using derivative contracts, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have derivatives in place to provide any particular level of protection against increased fuel costs. In addition, a deterioration of our financial position could negatively affect our ability to enter into derivative contracts in the future. 

The airline industry is fiercely competitive, may undergo consolidation and we are subject to increasing competition. 

Service over almost all of our routes is highly competitive and fares remain at low levels by historical standards. We face vigorous, and in some cases, increasing competition from major domestic airlines, national, regional, all-cargo and charter carriers, foreign air carriers, low-cost carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. We also face increasing and significant competition from marketing/operational alliances formed by our competitors. The percentage of routes on which we compete with carriers having substantially lower operating costs than ours has grown significantly over the past decade, and, as of December 31, 2007, we now compete with low-cost carriers on approximately 78 percent of our domestic non-stop mainline network. 

Certain alliances have been granted immunity from anti-trust regulations by governmental authorities for specific areas of cooperation, such as joint pricing decisions. To the extent alliances formed by our competitors can undertake activities that are not available to us, our ability to effectively compete may be hindered. 

Pricing decisions are significantly affected by competition from other airlines. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on our financial results because we must generally match competitors' fares, since failing to match would result in even less revenue. We have faced increased competition from carriers with simplified fare structures, which are generally preferred by travelers. Any fare reduction or fare simplification initiative may not be offset by increases in passenger traffic, a reduction in costs or changes in the mix of traffic that would improve yields. Moreover, decisions by our competitors that increase – or reduce – overall industry capacity, or capacity dedicated to a particular domestic or foreign region, market or route, can have a material impact on related fare levels. 

There have been numerous mergers and acquisitions within the U.S. airline industry since its deregulation in 1978, and there may be additional mergers and acquisitions in the future. Any airline industry consolidation could substantially alter the competitive landscape and may result in changes in our corporate or business strategy. We regularly assess and explore the potential for consolidation in our industry, our strategic position and ways to enhance our competitiveness, including the possibilities for our participation in merger activity. Consolidation involving other participants in our industry could result in the formation of one or more airlines with greater financial resources, more extensive networks, and/or lower cost structures than exist presently, which could have a material adverse effect on us. 

We compete with reorganized carriers, which may result in competitive disadvantages for us or fare reductions. 

We must compete with air carriers that have recently reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11, including United, the second largest U.S. air carrier, Delta, the third largest U.S. air carrier and Northwest, the fourth largest U.S. air carrier. It is possible that other competitors may seek to reorganize in or out of Chapter 11. United emerged from Chapter 11 in the first quarter of 2006, while Delta and Northwest emerged in the second quarter of 2007. We cannot predict the consequences of such a large portion of the airline industry’s capacity being provided by recently reorganized air carriers. 

Successful reorganizations by other carriers present us with competitors with significantly lower operating costs and a stronger financial position derived from renegotiated labor, supply, and financing contracts, which could lead to further fare reductions. These competitive pressures may limit our ability to adequately price our services, may require us to further reduce our operating costs, and could have a material adverse impact on us. 

Fares are at low levels and our reduced pricing power adversely affects our ability to achieve adequate pricing, especially with respect to business travel. 

While we have recently been able to implement some fare increases on certain domestic and international routes, our passenger yield remains low by historical standards. We believe this is due in large part to a corresponding decline in our pricing power. Our reduced pricing power is the product of several factors including: greater cost sensitivity on the part of travelers (particularly business travelers); pricing transparency resulting from the use of the Internet; greater competition from low-cost carriers and from carriers that have recently reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11; other carriers being well hedged against rising fuel costs and able to better absorb the current high jet fuel prices; and fare simplification efforts by certain carriers. We believe that our reduced pricing power could persist indefinitely.

We may need to raise additional funds to maintain sufficient liquidity, but we may be unable to do so on acceptable terms. 

To maintain sufficient liquidity as we continue to implement our restructuring and cost reduction initiatives, and because we have significant debt, lease, pension and other obligations in the next several years, we may need continued access to additional funding. 

Our ability to obtain future financing has been reduced because we have had fewer unencumbered assets available than in years past. A very large majority of our aircraft assets (including most of our aircraft eligible for the benefits of Section 1110 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code) have been encumbered. Also, the market value of our aircraft assets has declined in recent years and those assets may not maintain their current market value. 

Since the terrorist attacks of September 2001, which we refer to as the Terrorist Attacks, our credit ratings have been lowered to significantly below investment grade. These reductions have increased our borrowing costs and otherwise adversely affected borrowing terms, and limited borrowing options. Additional reductions in our credit ratings could further increase borrowing or other costs and further restrict the availability of future financing. 

A number of other factors, including our financial results in recent years, our substantial indebtedness, the difficult revenue environment we face, our reduced credit ratings, high fuel prices, and the financial difficulties experienced in the airline industry, adversely affect the availability and terms of financing for us. As a result, there can be no assurance that financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. An inability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms could have a material adverse impact on us and on our ability to sustain our operations over the long term. 

Our corporate or business strategy may change. 

In light of the rapid changes in the airline industry, we evaluate our assets on an ongoing basis with a view to maximizing their value to us and determining which are core to our operations. We also regularly evaluate our corporate and business strategies, and they are influenced by factors beyond our control, including changes in the competitive landscape we face. Our corporate and business strategies are, therefore, subject to change. 

In October 2007, we announced that we were conducting a strategic value review involving, among other things, AMR Eagle, our regional airline, American Beacon Advisors, our investment advisory subsidiary and AAdvantage, the world’s most popular frequent flyer program, and this review is continuing. The purpose of the review is to determine whether there exists the potential for unlocking additional stockholder value with respect to one or more of these strategic assets through some type of separation transaction. A separation may take the form of a spin-off transaction, a public offering of securities, a sale to a third party or otherwise, and we may have discussions from time-to-time with third parties involving these possibilities. Pursuant to this review, we announced on November 28, 2007 that we plan to divest AMR Eagle. There can be no assurances that our strategic review will lead to the completion of any separation transactions or as to the impact of these transactions on stockholder value or on us. 

Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which can result in increases in our costs, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages. 

Airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. Many of these requirements result in significant costs. For example, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft, and compliance with those requirements drives significant expenditures. In addition, the ability of U.S. carriers to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities are not made available. 

Moreover, additional laws, regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been enacted from time to time that have significantly increased the costs of airline operations, reduced the demand for air travel or restricted the way we can conduct our business. For example, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act, which became law in 2001, mandated the federalization of certain airport security procedures and resulted in the imposition of additional security requirements on airlines. In addition, many aspects of our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations, and concerns about climate change, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional regulation. For example, the European Commission is currently seeking to impose emissions controls on all flights coming into Europe. Laws or regulations similar to those described above or other U.S. or foreign governmental actions in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results. 

The results of our operations, demand for air travel, and the manner in which we conduct our business each may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies, including: 

  ·    changes in law which affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports;     

  ·    the granting and timing of certain governmental approvals (including foreign government approvals) needed for codesharing alliances and other arrangements with other airlines;     

  ·    restrictions on competitive practices (for example court orders, or agency regulations or orders, that would curtail an airline’s ability to respond to a competitor);     

  ·    the adoption of regulations that impact customer service standards (for example new passenger security standards, passenger bill of rights); or     

  ·    the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise restrictions.     

In addition, the air traffic control (ATC) system, which is operated by the FAA, is not successfully managing the growing demand for U.S. air travel. U.S. airlines carry about 740 million passengers a year and are forecasted to accommodate a billion passengers annually by 2015. Air-traffic controllers rely on outdated technologies that routinely overwhelm the system and compel airlines to fly inefficient, indirect routes. The Company supports a common-sense approach to ATC modernization that would allocate costs to all ATC system users in proportion to the services they consume. The Company expects the U.S. Congress to address the reauthorization of legislation that funds the Federal Aviation Administration in 2008, which includes proposals regarding upgrades to the ATC system. 

We could be adversely affected by conflicts overseas or terrorist attacks. 

Actual or threatened U.S. military involvement in overseas operations has, on occasion, had an adverse impact on our business, financial position (including access to capital markets) and results of operations, and on the airline industry in general. The continuing conflict in Iraq and Afghanistan, or other conflicts or events in the Middle East or elsewhere, may result in similar adverse impacts. 

The Terrorist Attacks had a material adverse impact on us. The occurrence of another terrorist attack (whether domestic or international and whether against us or another entity) could again have a material adverse impact on us. 

Our international operations could be adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control. 

Our current international activities and prospects could be adversely affected by factors such as reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets, exchange controls, currency and political risks, environmental regulation, taxation and changes in international government regulation of our operations, including the inability to obtain or retain needed route authorities and/or slots. 

For example, in April 2007, the United States and the European Union approved an “open skies” air services agreement that provides airlines from the United States and EU member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the United States and any airport in the EU including London’s Heathrow Airport. The provisions of the agreement will take effect on March 30, 2008. The agreement will result in the Company facing increased competition in serving Heathrow to the extent that additional carriers are able to obtain necessary slots and terminal facilities, which could have an adverse impact on the Company. 

We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that affects travel behavior. 

In 2003, there was an outbreak of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS), which primarily had an adverse impact on our Asia operations. More recently, there have been concerns about a potential outbreak of avian flu. If there were another outbreak of a disease (such as SARS or avian flu) that affects travel behavior, it could have a material adverse impact on us. 

Our labor costs are higher than those of our competitors. 

Wages, salaries and benefits constitute a significant percentage of our total operating expenses. In 2007, they constituted approximately 31 percent of our total operating expenses. All of the major hub-and-spoke carriers with whom American competes have achieved significant labor cost savings through or outside of bankruptcy proceedings. We believe American’s labor costs are higher than those of its primary competitors, and it is unclear how long this labor cost disadvantage may persist. 

We could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain satisfactory relations with any unionized or other employee work group. 

Our operations could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory relations with any labor union representing our employees. In addition, any significant dispute we have with, or any disruption by, an employee work group could adversely impact us. Moreover, one of the fundamental tenets of our strategic Turnaround Plan is increased union and employee involvement in our operations. To the extent that we are unable to maintain satisfactory relations with any unionized or other employee work group, our ability to execute our strategic plans could be adversely affected. 

Our insurance costs have increased substantially and further increases in insurance costs or reductions in coverage could have an adverse impact on us. 

We carry insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to our aircraft. As a result of the Terrorist Attacks, aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. 

The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines until August 31, 2008, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government does not extend the policy beyond August 31, 2008, or if the U.S. government at anytime thereafter ceases to provide such insurance, or reduces the coverage provided by such insurance, we will attempt to purchase similar coverage with narrower scope from commercial insurers at an additional cost. To the extent this coverage is not available at commercially reasonable rates, we would be adversely affected. 

While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to us, or significantly increase its cost, we would be adversely affected. 

We may be unable to retain key management personnel. 

Since the Terrorist Attacks, a number of our key management employees have elected to retire early or leave for more financially favorable opportunities at other companies, both within and outside of the airline industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our key management employees. Any inability to retain our key management employees, or attract and retain additional qualified management employees, could have a negative impact on us. 

We could be adversely affected by a failure or disruption of our computer, communications or other technology systems. 

We are heavily and increasingly dependent on technology to operate our business. The computer and communications systems on which we rely could be disrupted due to various events, some of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, equipment failures, software failures and computer viruses and hackers. We have taken certain steps to help reduce the risk of some (but not all) of these potential disruptions. There can be no assurance, however, that the measures we have taken are adequate to prevent or remedy disruptions or failures of these systems. Any substantial or repeated failure of these systems could impact our operations and customer service, result in the loss of important data, loss of revenues, and increased costs, and generally harm our business. Moreover, a failure of certain of our vital systems could limit our ability to operate our flights for an extended period of time, which would have a material adverse impact on our operations and our business.

ITEM 1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

The Company had no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at December 31, 2007. 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES