PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

“Newell Rubbermaid” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.  

WEBSITE ACCESS TO SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION REPORTS  

The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

GENERAL  

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that touch the lives of people where they work, live and play. The Company’s strong portfolio of brands includes Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Dymo®, Expo®, Waterman®, Parker®, Rolodex®, Irwin®, Lenox®, BernzOmatic®, Rubbermaid®, TC®, Levolor®, Graco®, Aprica®, Calphalon® and Goody®. The Company’s multi-product offering consists of well known name-brand consumer and commercial products in four business segments: Cleaning, Organization & Décor; Office Products; Tools & Hardware; and Home & Family.  

Newell Rubbermaid’s vision is to become a global company of Brands That MatterTM and great people, known for best-in-class results. The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer performance and value. At the same time, the Company strives to achieve best cost in its operations and leverage the benefits of being one company, including shared expertise, operating efficiencies and the fostering of a culture that produces best-in-class results.  

To support its multi-year transformation into a best-in-class global consumer branding and marketing organization, Newell Rubbermaid has adopted a strategy designed to deliver long-term sales and profit growth and enhance shareholder value. The key tenets of the Company’s strategy include optimizing the business portfolio, building consumer-meaningful brands across the globe, and achieving best cost and efficiency in its operations.  

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements included in this report.  

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES  

Optimize the Portfolio  

The Company continues to optimize its portfolio by reducing its exposure to non-strategic businesses and product lines and by acquiring businesses that facilitate geographic and category expansion, thus enhancing the growth opportunities and profitability of the overall portfolio. The Company seeks to build a portfolio of businesses that satisfy several key strategic criteria, including consumer-meaningful brands, product categories that respond to innovation and product differentiation, strong margin and growth potential, global categories, favorable customer and channel dynamics, valued intellectual property and synergies with the Company’s core categories and competencies.  

Using the above criteria, the Company routinely reviews its businesses and product offerings to assess their strategic fit. From 2005 to 2007, the Company divested or exited certain non-strategic and commodity-like businesses and product lines. In July 2008, the Company announced that it expects to divest, downsize or exit selected low margin, largely resin-intensive and commoditized product categories which generate approximately $500 million in annual sales. The Company expects this recent portfolio rationalization will improve gross margins and increase diluted earnings per share.  

The Company will continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions that can accelerate the migration of its portfolio to faster growing, higher margin businesses with greater presence in international markets. This strategy includes both small bolt-on acquisitions and larger   

3  

Table of Contents 

 transactions. In April 2008, the Company closed on two significant acquisitions, Aprica Childcare Institute Aprica Kassai, Inc. (“Aprica”) and Technical Concepts Holdings, LLC (“Technical Concepts”), which expand its product categories and geographic footprint as well as provide the Company the opportunity to leverage its innovation and branding capabilities. Aprica is a Japanese manufacturer and marketer of premium strollers, car seats and other related juvenile products. This acquisition gives the Company’s Baby & Parenting Essentials business the opportunity to broaden its presence worldwide, including expanding the scope of Aprica’s sales outside of Asia. The Aprica acquisition also provides the critical mass needed for increased shared resources in Japan, enabling the acceleration of investment in the Asia-Pacific region by other business units. Technical Concepts is a global provider of innovative touch-free and automated restroom hygiene systems. The Technical Concepts acquisition gives the Company’s Rubbermaid Commercial Products business an entry into the away-from-home washroom market. This acquisition fits the Company’s strategy of leveraging existing sales and marketing capabilities across near-neighbor product categories where performance matters and customers will pay a premium for innovation. In addition, with approximately 40% of its sales outside of the U.S., Technical Concepts significantly increases the global footprint of the Rubbermaid Commercial Products business. As a result of these two acquisitions, in combination with the sales growth in its existing international businesses, Newell Rubbermaid generated approximately 31% of total sales in 2008 from markets outside of the U.S., as compared to 28% and 26% in 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Build Consumer-Meaningful Brands  

The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands by embracing a consumer-driven innovation process, developing best-in-class marketing and branding capabilities across the organization, and investing in strategic brand building activities. As part of the consumer-driven innovation process, the Company invests in research and development to better understand its target consumers and their needs. The consumer insights gained from this investment are used to develop focused brand strategies and to create products that deliver meaningful solutions. In 2008, this focus on consumer-driven innovation resulted in the launch and support of several notable new product lines, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    Calphalon introduced Premium Heating Electric Appliances, which leverages and expands the well-known Calphalon® brand into a natural near-neighbor category.  

   •    The Sharpie® Pen delivers the writing experience of a Sharpie® Ultrafine point marker, but with an ink formulated not to bleed through paper, making the Sharpie® Pen a best in class everyday writing instrument.  

    •    The Graco® NautilusTM 3-in-1 car seat converts from a five-point safety harness for babies to a high back seat belt option for toddlers and then to a backless booster seat, providing comfortable, custom protection for children up to 100 pounds.  

By embracing the consumer-driven innovation process, the Company will continue to introduce innovative new products that meet consumers’ needs, strengthen its brands and drive sustainable growth.  

The Company continues to employ resources to create best-in-class branding and marketing capabilities across the Company. As part of the Company’s Marketing Build and Transform initiative, it has created a detailed blueprint and roadmap for achieving brand building excellence over time. Each business unit is tasked with evaluating its brands against best-in-class metrics, using a common framework and methodology, and developing a comprehensive plan to achieve the targeted goals. To further support this initiative, the Company has added to its management ranks executive talent from some of the world’s leading consumer products companies and developed and launched a comprehensive series of Marketing Excellence training programs. These courses, which cover both basic and advanced curriculums, are designed to expand and develop consumer marketing capabilities and further enhance consumer understanding.  

The Company is committed to investing in strategic brand building activities such as research and development, marketing, and advertising and promotion to enhance consumer-driven innovation, create a more effective marketing organization and increase consumer awareness and demand for its products.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Achieve Best Cost and Efficiency  

The Company’s objective is to achieve best cost in operations and leverage its scale to accelerate adoption of best-in-class practices and reduce costs in non-market facing activities. Achieving best cost across the organization will enable the Company to improve its competitive position, generate funds for increased investment in strategic brand building initiatives, and preserve cash and liquidity in the midst of volatile commodity markets and the current global economic slowdown. Through the Project Acceleration restructuring program and other initiatives, the Company has reduced the number of manufacturing facilities, increased the use of strategic sourcing partners, and improved capacity utilization rates to deliver productivity savings. In order to achieve logistical excellence and optimize its geographic footprint, the Company continues to evaluate its supply chain to identify opportunities to realize efficiencies in purchasing, distribution and transportation. For example, in 2009 the Company plans to consolidate four smaller warehouses into a new, multi-branded Southeastern U.S. distribution center. To date, the Company has recognized approximately $125.0 million of cumulative annualized savings from Project Acceleration, and expects total savings of $175.0 million to $200.0 million once the program is fully implemented in 2010. Project Acceleration is expected to result in cumulative restructuring costs of $475.0 million to $500.0 million over the life of the initiative.  

The Company is also optimizing its organizational structure, reducing structural selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses and managing its working capital to improve efficiency and preserve its cash and liquidity position. In 2007, the Company began realigning its businesses under a Global Business Unit (“GBU”) structure. This realignment positions the business units to leverage research and development, branding, marketing and innovation on a global basis. The Company continues to work to aggressively reduce non-strategic SG&A expenditures throughout the organization to protect margins and to enable continuing investments in brand building activities. In addition, the Company continues to focus on reducing inventories and managing working capital more effectively in order to maximize cash and liquidity.  

The Company strives to leverage the common business activities and best practices of its business units, and to build one common culture of shared values with a focus on collaboration and teamwork. Through this initiative, the Company strives to benefit from the cost reductions achieved through horizontal integration and economies of scale. For example, the Company has established regional shared services centers to leverage non-market facing functional capabilities such as Human Resources, Information Technology, Customer Service, Supply Chain Management and Finance. To further enhance productivity, the Company has begun migrating multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP global information platform in a phased, multi-year rollout. SAP will enable the Company to integrate and manage its worldwide business and reporting processes more efficiently. To date, the North American operations of its Home & Family and Office Products segments have successfully gone live with their SAP implementation efforts. Lastly, the Company is focused on building a common culture centered on consumer-focused brand building, collaboration, diversity and people development, and best-in-class results. To support these efforts, the Company is co-locating several business units and corporate functions into one global headquarters building and has consolidated several offices in Paris and Hong Kong for the European and Asia-Pacific regional headquarters, respectively. These consolidations will improve efficiency, enable greater sharing of best practices, and make it easier to leverage talent across the organization.  

BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

The Company’s business segments for 2008 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

5  

Table of Contents 

In the first quarter of 2009, the business units within the Cleaning, Organization & Décor segment were reorganized in the Tools & Hardware and Home & Family segments. The Rubbermaid Commercial Products business unit was transferred to the newly named Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products segment, and the Rubbermaid Food & Home Products and Décor business units were transferred to the Home & Family segment. The reorganization allows the Company to realize structural SG&A efficiencies.  

CLEANING, ORGANIZATION & DÉCOR  

The Company’s Cleaning, Organization & Décor segment comprises the following business units: Rubbermaid Food & Home Products, Rubbermaid Commercial Products and Décor. These businesses design, manufacture or source, package and distribute semi-durable products primarily for use in the home and commercial settings.  

Food & Home Products and Commercial Products primarily sell their products under the trademarks Rubbermaid®, Brute®, Roughneck®, TakeAlongs® and TC®. Décor sells its products primarily under the trademarks Levolor® and Kirsch®.  

Food & Home Products markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores and hardware distributors. Commercial Products markets its products directly and through distributors to commercial channels and home centers. Décor markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, department/specialty stores, hardware distributors, industrial/construction outlets, custom shops, select contract customers and other professional customers.  

OFFICE PRODUCTS  

The Company’s Office Products segment comprises the following business units: Markers, Highlighters, & Art; Everyday Writing; Technology; and Fine Writing & Luxury Accessories. These businesses primarily design, manufacture or source, package and distribute writing instruments and office solutions, primarily for use in the business and home.  

Markers, Highlighters & Art products include permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters, and art supplies and are primarily sold under the trademarks Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Vis-à-Vis®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol® and Prismacolor®. Everyday Writing products include ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction fluids and are primarily sold under the trademarks Paper Mate®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America), Sharpie®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol®, Reynolds®, and Liquid Paper®. Technology products include on-demand labeling products, on-line postage, card scanning solutions and interactive teaching solutions, and are primarily sold under the trademarks Dymo®, EndiciaTM, CardScan®, and Mimio®. Fine Writing & Luxury Accessories products include fine writing instruments and luxury accessories and are primarily sold under the trademarks Parker®, Waterman® and rotring®.  

Office Products markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, hardware distributors and other retailers.  

TOOLS & HARDWARE  

The Company’s Tools & Hardware segment comprises the following business units: Industrial Products & Services, Construction Tools & Accessories and Hardware. The business units within the Tools & Hardware segment design, manufacture or source, package and distribute hand tools and power tool accessories, industrial bandsaw blades, propane torches, soldering tools and accessories, manual paint applicator products, cabinet hardware and window and door hardware.  

Industrial Products & Services products include cutting and drilling accessories and industrial bandsaw blades as well as soldering tools and accessories primarily sold under the Lenox® trademark. Construction Tools & Accessories products include hand tools and power tool accessories primarily sold under the trademarks Irwin®, Vise-Grip®, Marathon®, Quick-Grip®, Unibit® and Strait-Line®. Hardware products include paint applicator products, propane torches and cabinet, window and door hardware primarily sold under the trademarks Shur-Line®, BernzOmatic®, Amerock® and Bulldog®.  

Tools & Hardware markets its products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, department/specialty stores, hardware distributors, industrial/construction outlets, custom shops, select contract customers and other professional customers.  

6  

Table of Contents 

HOME & FAMILY  

The Company’s Home & Family segment comprises the following business units: Baby & Parenting Essentials, Culinary Lifestyle and Beauty & Style. Baby & Parenting Essentials designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes infant and juvenile products such as swings, high chairs, car seats, strollers and playards. Culinary Lifestyle primarily designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes aluminum and stainless steel cookware, bakeware, cutlery and kitchen gadgets and utensils. Beauty & Style designs, sources, packages and distributes hair care accessories and grooming products.  

Baby & Parenting Essentials primarily sells its products under the trademarks Graco®, Teutonia® and Aprica®. Culinary Lifestyle primarily sells its products under the trademarks Calphalon®, Kitchen Essentials®, Cooking with CalphalonTM, Calphalon®OneTM and KatanaTM. Beauty & Style markets its products primarily under the trademarks Goody®, Ace®, and Solano®.  

Baby & Parenting Essentials and Beauty & Style market their products directly and through distributors to mass merchants and specialty and grocery/drug stores. Culinary Lifestyle markets and sells its products directly to department and specialty stores and through its branded retail outlets.  

NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT  

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (in millions, except percentages) (including sales of acquired businesses from the time of acquisition and excluding sales of businesses that have been divested), for the Company’s four business segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries, which includes Sam’s Club, amounted to approximately 13% of consolidated net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, and 12% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2006, substantially across all segments. Sales to no other customer exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales. For more detailed segment information, including operating income and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

OTHER INFORMATION  

Multi-Product Offering  

The Company’s broad product coverage in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can also assist volume purchasers sell a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.  

Customer Marketing and Service  

The Company strives to develop long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships with its customers and become their supplier and brand of choice. To achieve this goal, the Company has a value-added marketing program that offers a family of leading brand name consumer products, tailored sales programs, innovative merchandising support, in-store services and responsive top management.  

The Company strives to enhance its relationships with customers through exceptional customer service. The Company’s ability to provide superior customer service is a result of its information technology and marketing and merchandising programs that are designed to enhance the sales and profitability of its customers and provide consistent on-time delivery of its products.  

A critical element of the Company’s customer service is consistent on-time delivery of products to its customers. Retailers are pursuing a number of strategies to deliver the highest-quality, best-cost products to their customers. Retailers frequently purchase on a   

7  

Table of Contents 

 “just-in-time” basis in order to reduce inventory carrying costs and increase returns on investment. As retailers shorten their lead times for orders, manufacturers need to more closely anticipate consumer-buying patterns. The Company supports its retail customers’ “just-in-time” inventory strategies through more responsive sourcing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities and electronic communications.  

Foreign Operations  

Information regarding the Company’s 2008, 2007 and 2006 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods  

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, glass, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, zinc, aluminum and gold. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices and expects such inflation pressures to continue in 2009. The Company continues to attempt to reduce the volume of its resin purchases through product line rationalizations and strategic divestitures.  

The Company is also placing increasing reliance on third party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. In a limited number of cases, such manufacturers supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, the Home & Family segment’s Baby & Parenting Essentials business unit relies on a third party manufacturer for a significant portion of certain of its products.  

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.  

Backlog  

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.  

Seasonal Variations  

The Company’s sales and operating income in the first quarter are generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced demand and volume for the products in the Company’s Office Products and Cleaning, Organization & Décor segments in the quarter.  

Patents and Trademarks  

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Dymo®,” “Irwin®,” “Lenox®,” “Rubbermaid®,” “TC®,” “Levolor®,” “Graco®,” “Aprica®” and “Calphalon®.”  

Customers / Competition  

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to a significant consolidation of the consumer products retail industry and the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment limits the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.  

Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for the retailer to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with products of the Company. The   

8  

Table of Contents 

 combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in pricing pressures and the need for strong end-user brands, the ongoing introduction of innovative new products and continuing improvements in category management and customer service. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well established.  

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining consumer-meaningful brands and differentiated products, delivering superior customer service (including innovative “good-better-best” marketing and merchandising programs), consistent on-time delivery, outsourcing certain production to low cost suppliers and lower cost countries where appropriate, and experienced management.  

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; and contract stationers. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 13% of net sales in 2008, across substantially all business units. The Company’s top ten customers in 2008 included (in alphabetical order): Bed Bath & Beyond, Lowe’s, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, W. W. Grainger and Wal-Mart.  

Environmental Matters  

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Research and Development  

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2008, the Company had approximately 20,400 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 3,300 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries which have collective arrangements decreed by statute.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS