PART I

Item 1. Business.

Introduction

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on net sales for fiscal 2017. We offer our customers a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products, lawn and garden products, and décor products and provide a number of services, including home improvement installation services and tool and equipment rental. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we had 2,284 The Home Depot stores located throughout the U.S., including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, Canada, and Mexico. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. We also maintain a network of distribution and fulfillment centers, as well as a number of e-commerce websites. When we refer to "The Home Depot," the "Company," "we," "us" or "our" in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.

Our Business

Our Strategy

Our two primary objectives are growing market share with our customers and delivering shareholder value. We have historically been guided by three principles to drive growth: delivering an exceptional customer experience, leading in product authority, and maintaining a disciplined approach to capital allocation. These principles reflect how we fundamentally run our business. As the retail landscape continues to rapidly evolve, we must become more agile in responding to the changing competitive landscape and customer preferences. Our customers expect to be able to buy how, when and where they want. We believe that providing a seamless and frictionless shopping experience across multiple channels, featuring curated and innovative product choices, personalized for the individual shopper’s need, which are then delivered in a fast and cost-efficient manner, will be a key enabler for our future success. This is our vision for One Home Depot. We have been focused on providing this interconnected retail experience to drive value for our customers, our associates, our suppliers and our shareholders. With that in mind, we have refined our strategic principles into the following five key strategies designed to drive growth in our business:

•Connect associates to customer needs

•Interconnected experience: stores to online, and online to stores

•Connect products and services to customer needs

•Connect product to shelf, site and customer

•Innovate our business model and value chain

Taken together, these strategies will help us to create the One Home Depot experience that our customers demand. Below are some of the ways we have been investing in that experience during fiscal 2017.

Connect Associates to Customer Needs

We serve two primary customer groups and have different approaches to meet their needs:

•DIY Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to share this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers.

•Professional Customers (or “Pros”). These customers are primarily professional renovators/remodelers, general contractors, handymen, property managers, building service contractors and specialty tradesmen, such as installers. We recognize the great value our Pro customers provide to their clients, and we strive to make the Pro’s job easier. For example, we offer our Pros a wide range of special programs such as delivery and will-call services, dedicated sales and service staff, enhanced credit 

1
programs, designated parking spaces close to store entrances and bulk pricing programs for both online and in-store purchases. In addition, we maintain a loyalty program, Pro Xtra, that provides our Pros with discounts on useful business services, exclusive product offers, and a purchase tracking tool to enable receipt lookup online and job tracking of purchases across all forms of payment.

We also serve Pros in the MRO market where our customers are primarily institutions (such as educational and healthcare institutions), hospitality businesses, and national, multi-family apartment complexes. Through our entry into this market with our acquisition of Interline in fiscal 2015, we gained additional competencies relevant to our large Pro customers, including outside sales and account management, expanded product assortment, and last mile delivery capabilities. During fiscal 2017, we continued our integration efforts, rolling out Pro MRO in all U.S. stores, giving customers in our stores access to Interline's assortment. Similarly, we launched our Pro Purchase program, which gives Interline customers the ability to shop our stores using their house accounts.

Our Pros have differing needs depending on the type of work they perform. Our goal is to develop a comprehensive set of capabilities for our Pros to provide solutions across every purchase opportunity, such as supplying both recurring MRO needs and renovation products and services to property managers or providing inventory management solutions for specialty tradesmen’s replenishment needs. In fiscal 2017, we enhanced our service offering to our Pros through our acquisition of Compact Power, a national provider of equipment rental and maintenance services. We believe that by bringing our best resources to bear for each individual customer, we can provide a differentiated customer experience and enhanced value proposition for our Pro customers. 

Intersecting our DIY customers and our Pros are our DIFM customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials and hire Pros to complete the project or installation. Our stores offer a variety of installation services available to DIFM customers who purchase products and installation of those products from us in our stores, online or in their homes through in-home consultations. Our installation programs include many categories, such as flooring, cabinets, countertops, water heaters and sheds. In addition, we provide third-party professional installation in a number of categories sold through our in-home sales programs, such as roofing, siding, windows, cabinet refacing, furnaces and central air systems. We believe that changing demographics are increasing the demand for our installation services, particularly for our "baby boomer" customers who may have historically been DIY customers but who are now looking for someone to complete a project for them. We also believe our focus on serving the Pros who perform services for our DIFM customers will help us drive higher product sales.

We help our customers finance their projects by offering private label credit card, or PLCC products through third-party credit providers. Our private label credit program includes other benefits, such as a 365-day return policy and, for our Pros, commercial fuel rewards and extended payment terms. In fiscal 2017, our customers opened approximately 4.4 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts, and at the end of fiscal 2017 the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 15 million. PLCC sales accounted for approximately 23% of net sales in fiscal 2017.

We strive to provide an outstanding customer experience by putting customers first and taking care of our associates. Our customer experience begins with excellent customer service, and our associates are key to delivering on that experience. Our goal is to remove complexity and inefficient processes from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers. In fiscal 2017, we continued to invest in freight handling capabilities as part of an end-to-end initiative to optimize how product flows from suppliers to our shelves. Among other benefits, this initiative improves our on-shelf availability while decreasing the amount of time a store associate spends locating product on the receiving dock or in overhead storage. In addition, we are implementing a new order management system called “Order Up” to consolidate certain of our existing legacy systems into a simple and intuitive user interface. These efforts will allow our associates to devote more time to the customer and make working at The Home Depot a better experience. 

At the end of fiscal 2017, we employed approximately 413,000 associates, of whom approximately 28,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve. We also have a number of programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer service. In fiscal 2017, we announced a one-time bonus to our U.S. hourly associates in light of the benefit we expect to receive from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. This bonus was in addition to our semi-annual Success Sharing bonus 

2
program for our non-management associates. We measure associate satisfaction regularly, and we believe that our employee relations are very good.

Interconnected Experience: Stores to Online, and Online to Stores

Our customers are shopping and interacting with us differently today than they did several years ago. As a result, we have taken a number of steps to provide our customers with a seamless and frictionless shopping experience across our stores, online, on the job site, and in their homes. 

Our stores are the hub of our business, and we are investing to improve the convenience and speed of the customer shopping experience in our stores. For several years, our associates have used FIRST phones, our web-enabled handheld devices, to help expedite the online order checkout process, locate products in the aisles and online, and check inventory on hand. In fiscal 2017, we empowered our customers with additional self-help tools. For example, we invested in a better digital navigation experience through store-specific maps, which allow customers to pinpoint the exact location of an item on their mobile devices. 

We have also undertaken a number of store pilots in response to customer feedback around navigation and checkout. These pilots include new, more intuitive signage, better lighting, and a redesign of the front end of our store. As part of these store pilots, we added self-service lockers at the front entrance to offer convenient pick up of online orders. We plan to roll out these store pilots more broadly to our U.S. stores over the next several years.

We continued to make investments in our website and mobile apps. Enhancements to these digital properties are critical for our increasingly interconnected customers who research products online and then go into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate before making their purchase. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices, view our extended assortment and purchase products. During fiscal 2017, we implemented a new e-commerce platform, enhanced our search and mobile functionality, increased checkout speed, and expanded chat functionality with our online contact centers. We have also begun to focus on voice-enabled commerce to further remove friction for our customers in-store and online. 

We do not view the customer experience as a specific transaction; rather, it encompasses an entire process from inspiration and know-how, to purchase and fulfillment, to post-purchase care and support. Further, we believe that by connecting our stores to online and online to our stores, we drive sales not just in-store but also online. In fiscal 2017, we saw increased traffic to our online properties and improved online sales conversion rates. Sales from our online channels increased over 21% during fiscal 2017. We will continue to leverage our physical and digital assets in a seamless and frictionless way to enhance the end-to-end customer experience.

Connect Products and Services to Customer Needs

We strive to be the number one retailer in product authority in home improvement by delivering product innovation, assortment and value and by offering a range of home improvement services. In fiscal 2017, we continued to introduce a wide range of innovative new products to our DIY and Pro customers, while remaining focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online. We also made two strategic acquisitions to further enhance our offerings to our customers.

A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. To enhance our merchandising capabilities, we continued to make improvements to our information technology tools in fiscal 2017 to better understand our customers, provide more localized assortments to fit customer demand, and optimize space to dedicate the right square footage to the right products in the right location.

Our online product offerings complement our stores by serving as an extended aisle, and we offer a significantly broader product assortment through our websites, including homedepot.com and blinds.com. In fiscal 2017, we expanded our offering of online décor categories though our acquisition of The Company Store, an online retailer of textiles and décor products. We also routinely use our merchandising tools to refine our online assortment to balance the extended choice with a more curated offering. 

In fiscal 2017, we introduced a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers at attractive values. Examples of these new products include EGO® 56V cordless self-propelled mowers; PPG® Timeless™ paint; Samsung® Activewash™ high-efficiency washers; and Leviton® smart lighting controls.

During fiscal 2017, we continued to offer value to our customers through a wide range of our proprietary and exclusive brands. Highlights of these offerings include Husky® hand tools, tool storage and work benches, water 

3
resistant gloves, dual beam flashlights, diamond tip screwdrivers, 15-in-1 screwdriver/nut drivers, and 3/8 inch drive digital torque wrenches; Hampton Bay® lighting, ceiling fans and kitchen cabinets; Glacier Bay® bath fixtures and toilets, featuring a SuperClean™ toilet; LifeProof® flooring including carpet, carpet with PetProof® technology, laminate and vinyl flooring; EcoSmart® lighting, featuring all-glass LED light bulbs; Vigoro® lawn care products; and RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools, featuring Ryobi® 40V cordless push mowers. We will continue to assess our merchandising departments and product lines for opportunities to expand the assortment of products offered within The Home Depot’s portfolio of proprietary and exclusive brands. 

We also offer a number of services for our customers. As noted above under “Our Customers,” we provide a number of special programs for our Pro customers to meet their particular needs, and for our DIY and DIFM customers, we provide a number of installation services. In fiscal 2017, we enhanced our tool rental offering through our acquisition of Compact Power. Currently, we offer tool and equipment rentals at over 1,000 locations across the U.S. and Canada, providing value and convenience for both our Pro and DIY customers.

Connect Product to Shelf, Site and Customer

We continue to drive productivity and efficiency by building best-in-class competitive advantages in our information technology and supply chain. These efforts are designed to ensure product availability for our customers while managing our costs, which results in higher returns for our shareholders. Given the changing needs of our customers, our goal is to create the fastest and most efficient delivery capabilities in home improvement. During fiscal 2017, we continued to lay the groundwork to meet this goal.

We centrally forecast and replenish over 97% of our products through sophisticated inventory management systems and a network of over 200 distribution centers. This network includes multiple distribution center platforms in the U.S., Canada and Mexico tailored to meet the needs of our stores and customers based on the types of products, location, transportation and delivery requirements. These platforms primarily include rapid deployment centers, stocking distribution centers, bulk distribution centers, and direct fulfillment centers.

In addition to our distribution centers, we leverage our almost 2,000 U.S. stores as a network of convenient customer pick-up, return and delivery fulfillment locations. For customers who shop online and wish to pick-up or return merchandise at, or have merchandise delivered from, our U.S. stores, we have fully implemented our four interconnected retail programs, BOPIS, BOSS, BORIS and BODFS, which we believe provide us with a competitive advantage. For example, as of the end of fiscal 2017, over 45% of our U.S. online orders were picked up in the store. Efficient delivery is also key. We have developed specialized capabilities for delivering building materials, which is particularly important to our Pro customers. During fiscal 2017, we implemented new and improved delivery capabilities from our stores, including two- and four-hour delivery windows, and we piloted van and car options for faster delivery on small orders in certain markets.  

A key component of this strategy is enabled through our technology portfolio, which consists of a network of systems that help us centrally manage customer orders and optimize where, when and how we fulfill them in order to maximize speed, efficiency, and the customer’s experience. During fiscal 2017, we continued to improve COM, our customer order management platform, and we completed the rollout of our delivery management system, which substantially improves our ability to sell and execute deliveries from our stores.

We recognize that our customers’ expectations are changing rapidly and that our supply chain needs to be responsive to their expectations for how, when and where they choose to receive our products and services. We will continue to improve the productivity and connectivity across our supply chain platforms to achieve the fastest, most efficient delivery capabilities in home improvement. We refer to this process, which encompasses a multi-year effort, as One Home Depot Supply Chain.

Competition. Our industry is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. As a result, we face competition for our products and services from a variety of retailers, suppliers, and service providers, ranging from traditional brick-and-mortar, to multichannel, to exclusively online. In each of the markets we serve, there are a number of other home improvement retailers; electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses; and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, paint stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores, MRO companies, home décor retailers, and other retailers, as well as with providers of home improvement services and tool and equipment rental.

We compete, both in-store and online, primarily based on customer experience, price, quality, availability, assortment, and delivery options. With respect to our stores, we also compete based on store location and 

4
appearance as well as presentation of merchandise. Our customers routinely use computers, tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices to shop online, read product reviews, and compare prices, products, and delivery options, regardless of whether they shop in-store or online. Further, online and multichannel retailers are increasingly focusing on delivery services, with customers seeking faster, guaranteed delivery times and low-price or free shipping. Our ability to be competitive on delivery times and delivery costs depends on many factors, including the success of our investments to build One Home Depot Supply Chain. 

Innovate Our Business Model and Value Chain

In the changing retail environment, we must increase our investments to position our Company for the future. Our customers view us as One Home Depot, and expect us to function in an interconnected, seamless manner. To fully realize the One Home Depot experience, we will continue to connect the various aspects of our business; leverage our scale; and invest in our physical locations, our digital properties, our associates, product and innovation, our Pro and DIY customers, our services business, and our supply chain. Underlying all of these investments is our continued investment in information technology, which provides the backbone of the One Home Depot experience.

We continue to focus on driving productivity throughout the business. This process includes lowering our costs and reinvesting in the business to drive higher sales, creating what we refer to as a virtuous cycle. Through technology development, we drive productivity and speed. By focusing on the elimination of waste across the value chain, improved processes, and enabling those processes through simplified systems, we support a cycle of productivity. This virtuous cycle has allowed us to improve the customer experience, increase our competitiveness in the market, and deliver on shareholder value.

Our strategy to create the One Home Depot experience is driven by our desire to create value for all stakeholders, including our customers, our associates, our supplier partners, the communities we serve, and our shareholders. We are accelerating our investments in the business within our disciplined approach to capital allocation. Our first use of cash has been and will continue to be investing in our business, with use of the remainder guided by our shareholder return principles:

•Dividend Principle. We target a dividend payout of approximately 55% of prior year earnings, with the goal of increasing our dividend every year. 

•Return on Invested Capital Principle. Our goal is to maintain a high return on invested capital, benchmarking all uses of excess liquidity against the value created for our shareholders through share repurchases.

•Share Repurchase Principle. After meeting the needs of the business, we use excess cash to repurchase shares as long as it is value creating.

In fiscal 2017, we drove higher returns on invested capital, which allowed us to return value to shareholders through $8.0 billion in share repurchases and $4.2 billion in cash dividends, as discussed in Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Other Information

Sustainability Efforts

The Home Depot is committed to sustainable business practices – from the products that we offer to our customers, to the environmental impact of our operations, to our sourcing activities, to our involvement within the communities in which we do business. We believe these efforts continue to be successful in creating value for our customers, shareholders, and communities.

Environmentally Preferred Products and Programs. We offer a growing selection of environmentally preferred products, which supports sustainability and helps our customers save energy, water and money. Through our Eco Options® Program introduced in 2007, we have helped our customers more easily identify products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. As of the end of fiscal 2017, our Eco Options® Program included over 20,000 products. Through this program, we sell ENERGY STAR® certified appliances, LED light bulbs, tankless water heaters, and other products that enable our customers to save on their utility bills. We estimate that in fiscal 2017 we helped customers save over $1 billion in electricity costs through sales of ENERGY STAR® certified products. We also estimate our customers saved over 79 billion gallons of water resulting in over $700 million in water bill savings in fiscal 2017 through the sales of our WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, showerheads, aerators, toilets, and irrigation controllers. 

5
In 2017, we announced new customer energy, greenhouse gas emissions, and water goals, anchored by our sale of ENERGY STAR® and WaterSense® products. We are committed to providing innovative products that, through proper use, will help to reduce North American customers’ electricity costs by more than $2.8 billion; greenhouse gas emissions by 20 million metric tons; and water consumption by 250 billion gallons by 2020. Our 2017 Responsibility Report, available on our website at https://corporate.homedepot.com/responsibility, describes many of our other environmentally preferred products that promote energy efficiency, water conservation, clean air, and a healthy home. In 2017, we also updated our wood purchasing policy to require FSC certification for wood products from the Amazon or Congo basins.

We continue to offer store recycling programs in the U.S., such as an in-store compact fluorescent light, or CFL, bulb recycling program launched in 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 and currently done in partnership with Call2Recycle, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all U.S. stores. Through our recycling programs, in fiscal 2017 we helped recycle over 980,000 pounds of CFL bulbs and over 1.1 million pounds of rechargeable batteries. In fiscal 2017, we also recycled over 200,000 lead acid batteries collected from our customers under our lead acid battery exchange program, as well as over 230,000 tons of cardboard through a nationwide cardboard recycling program across our U.S. operations. We believe our environmentally-preferred product selection and our recycling efforts drive sales, which in turn benefits our shareholders, in addition to our customers, the communities in which we work and live, and the environment.

Commitment to Sustainability and Environmentally Responsible Operations. The Home Depot also focuses on sustainable operations and is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our operations, including energy usage, supply chain and packaging, and store construction and maintenance. In 2015, we announced two major sustainability commitments for 2020. Our first goal is to reduce our U.S. stores’ energy use by 20% over 2010 levels, and our second goal is to produce and procure, on an annual basis, 135 megawatts of energy for our stores through renewable or alternate energy sources, such as wind, solar and fuel cell technology. As of the end of fiscal 2017, we have 49 stores with solar rooftop power and over 200 fuel cell systems that are either operational or in development, which puts us on track to exceed both of our goals before the end of 2020. We are committed to implementing strict operational standards that establish energy efficient operations in all of our U.S. facilities and continuing to invest in renewable and alternative energy. Additionally, we implemented a rainwater reclamation project in our stores in 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2017, 145 of our stores used reclamation tanks to collect rainwater and condensation from HVAC units and garden center roofs, which is in turn used to water plants in our outside garden centers. Our 2017 Responsibility Report, which uses the Global Reporting Initiative, or GRI, framework for sustainability reporting, provides more information on sustainability efforts in other aspects of our operations.

Awards and Recognition. Our commitment to corporate sustainability has resulted in a number of environmental awards and recognitions. In 2017, we received three significant awards from the EPA. The ENERGY STAR® division named us "Retail Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence" for our overall excellence in energy efficiency, and we received the WaterSense® Sustained Excellence Award for our overall excellence in water efficiency. We also received the EPA’s "SmartWay Excellence Award," which recognizes The Home Depot as an industry leader in freight supply chain environmental performance and energy efficiency. We also participate in the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) reporting process. CDP is an independent, international, not-for-profit organization providing a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share environmental information. In 2017, we received a score of A- from CDP, reflecting a high level of action on climate change mitigation, adaptation and transparency. We also were named an industry leader by CDP. 

Sourcing and Quality Assurance

We maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality and innovative products directly from manufacturers around the world. During fiscal 2017, in addition to our U.S. sourcing operations, we maintained sourcing offices in Mexico, Canada, China, India, Southeast Asia and Europe. Our suppliers are obligated to ensure that their products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local laws. In addition, we have both quality assurance and engineering resources dedicated to establishing criteria and overseeing compliance with safety, quality and performance standards for our proprietary branded products. We also have a global supplier SER program designed to ensure that suppliers adhere to high standards of social and environmental responsibility.

6
Safety

We are strongly committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates. Our EH&S function is dedicated to ensuring the health and safety of our customers and associates, with trained associates who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH&S policies are woven into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Some common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate’s role and responsibilities; and awareness, communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and understanding of EH&S issues.

Intellectual Property

Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business, including our expanding proprietary brands such as HDX®, Husky®, Hampton Bay®, Home Decorators Collection®, Glacier Bay® and Vigoro®. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations.

Seasonality

Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs either during our first or fourth fiscal quarter.

Available Information

Our internet website is www.homedepot.com. We make available on the Investor Relations section of our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.

We include our website addresses throughout this report for reference only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.

Other Financial Information

For information on key financial highlights, including historical revenues, profits and total assets, see the "Selected Financial Data" on page F-1 of this report and Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." For information on net sales by major merchandising department (and related services) and net sales and long-lived assets outside of the U.S., see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and incorporated herein by reference.

Item 1A. Risk Factors.