Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

The Company’s fiscal 2008 financial information is summarized in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Consolidated Financial Statements, and the related Notes. The following background is essential to more fully understand the Company’s financial information.  

Patterson operates a distribution business in three complementary markets: dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply. Historically the Company’s strategy for growth focused on internal growth and the acquisition of smaller distributors and businesses offering related products and services to the dental market. In fiscal 2002, the Company expanded its strategy to take advantage of a parallel growth opportunity in the veterinary supply market by acquiring the assets of J. A. Webster, Inc. on July 9, 2001. The Company added a third component to its business platform in fiscal 2004 when it entered the rehabilitation supply market with the acquisition of AbilityOne Products Corp. (“AbilityOne”) on September 12, 2003. AbilityOne is now known as Patterson Medical.  

The historical operating performance of the veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply businesses are somewhat different than the dental supply business. Operating margins of the veterinary business are considerably lower than the dental supply business. While operating expenses run at a lower rate in the veterinary business, its gross margin is substantially lower. Veterinary gross margins have been in the low-to-mid 20’s as compared to dental gross margins in the mid 30’s. The rehabilitation business has realized gross margins in the high 30’s to low 40’s.  

There are several important aspects of the Company’s business that are useful in analyzing the Company, including: (1) market growth in the various markets it operates; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency. Management defines “internal growth” as the increase in net sales from period to period, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and excluding the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses that it has acquired. With these factors in mind, management has established certain operating objectives, which include increasing net sales two to four percentage points faster than the average market growth rate at each business unit and improving operating margins by 50 basis points annually.  

During fiscal 2008, the Company executed a series of transactions that effectively changed our capital structure, that lowered our weighted average cost of capital by almost 100 basis points, and positioned the Company to increase returns to our shareholders. First, the Company repurchased approximately 18 million shares of its common stock on the open market and through an accelerated share repurchase agreement for a total of approximately $636 million. A portion of the funding for the share repurchases came from debt issued in the fourth quarter of the year, consisting of fixed-rate private placement notes totaling $450 million and a variable-rate term loan from a group of banks of $75 million. The positive impact of this share repurchase activity in the fourth quarter was largely offset by increased interest expense and lower cash reserves, however the Company estimates the accretion to earnings per share from the share repurchases going forward to be approximately $0.08 annually.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations   

The following table summarizes the consolidated results of operations over the past three fiscal years as a percent of sales:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes a 30 basis point impact of share-based compensation expense from the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), which was adopted effective April 30, 2006, the first day of fiscal 2007.  

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007  

Net Sales. Consolidated sales in fiscal 2008 totaled $2,998.7 million, an increase of 7.2% compared to $2,798.4 million in fiscal 2007. Foreign currency translation rates contributed one percentage point and acquisitions contributed 0.6% to the sales growth in fiscal 2008.  

Sales of our dental supply unit increased 5.7% to $2,181.3 million. Sales of dental consumable supplies grew 5.5%. Dental equipment sales grew 4.2%, including basic equipment growth of 4.3%. Sales of CEREC®  3D dental restorative systems rose 3.7%. In late fiscal 2007, CEREC’s manufacturer, Sirona, introduced improved software included in all installations and a next-generation crown milling chamber that is sold both as an upgrade for existing installations and as an option on new system sales. The process of transitioning to these upgraded features began in late fiscal 2007 and continued into early fiscal 2008. Total CEREC sales in the first half of fiscal 2008 declined, while sales improved approximately 12% in the second half of the year.  

Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, grew 11.7% in fiscal 2008.  

Webster Veterinary sales grew 11.8% to $446.4 million from $399.4 million. Effective January 2007, Webster made a strategic decision to drop a line of products previously sold under an agency agreement, including flea/tick and heartworm products, and replaced them with a combination of fully distributed product offerings and products under agency agreements from several vendor partners. This transition progressed throughout the year as planned, although there was a modest negative impact to Webster’s operating metrics during the first half of fiscal 2008.  

Veterinary equipment and software sales accounted for approximately 7% of Webster’s total sales during the past two fiscal years. In the second half of fiscal 2008, efforts were underway to restructure and refine this aspect of the business and the Company believes equipment and software sales will benefit from these initiatives in fiscal 2009.  

Sales growth of 11.0% at Patterson Medical included the contribution of new branch offices which have been established by acquisition and greenfield expansion. As a part of its initiative to expand and strengthen its value-added model, the rehabilitation unit has opened twelve branch offices in selected markets throughout the   

33  

Table of Contents 

 United States over the past two years. Certain acquisitions over the past two years have given the business access to premium equipment lines previously unavailable to Patterson Medical. The November 2007 acquisition of PTOS software, a leading line of practice management software for physical therapists, is enabling Patterson Medical to create relationships with new customers and deepen relationships with existing customers.  

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin of 34.4% was 20 basis points lower in fiscal 2008 due to declines at Patterson Medical and Webster Veterinary. In addition, the sales growth of Webster outpaced both the dental and rehabilitation segments, resulting in a dilutive impact to consolidated gross margin, since Veterinary gross margins are lower than the other two businesses.  

The Dental segment’s gross margin was flat, despite approximately $2 million of expense related to a distribution agreement fee which began to be amortized in October 2007. In addition, local currency pricing in Canada was lowered in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 in response to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar compared to the United States dollar.  

Gross margins decreased by 50 basis points in fiscal 2008 at the Veterinary unit. This was largely a result of the decision to terminate the agency relationship late in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, (the agency commission is effectively 100% gross margin), and many of the replacement offerings for the products previously sold under the agency relationship are now being fully distributed. While gross margin decreased in each of the first three quarters of fiscal 2008 compared to the year-earlier quarters, respectively, gross margin improved 110 basis points in the fourth quarter due to product mix and higher vendor rebates.  

Patterson Medical’s gross margin declined 20 basis points, due mostly to higher freight costs in the early part of fiscal 2008. In the second half of the year, better freight management and product pricing mitigated much of the higher freight costs.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio improved 20 basis points to 22.4%.  

Operating expenses as a percent of sales at the Dental unit decreased 30 basis points, reflecting the leverage of infrastructure investments over the past two years and the elimination of duplicate costs from the distribution system. The operating expense ratio of the Veterinary unit declined 50 basis points due both to leverage on higher sales volume and distribution system realignment, including the closing of a stand-alone warehouse.  

Patterson Medical’s operating expense ratio was 100 basis points higher in fiscal 2008, resulting from the infrastructure expense of adding branch locations through both acquisition and internal startups. This impact on the operating expense ratio is expected to dissipate as the newer locations become more established.  

Operating Income. Operating income was $359.2 million or 12.0% of net sales in fiscal 2008. This amount represents an increase of 7.0% from $335.7 million in fiscal 2007. Operating margin in fiscal 2007 was also 12.0%.  

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $12.8 million compared to $14.2 million in fiscal 2007. The average debt balance carried for the majority of fiscal 2008 was lower than in fiscal 2007, resulting in the decrease in interest expense. The Company issued $525 million of long-term debt in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and thus, a significantly higher level of interest expense is expected in fiscal 2009.  

Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, increased to $11.0 million from $8.1 million due to higher levels of interest income and foreign currency transaction gains.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 37.1% in fiscal 2008, slightly higher than a rate of 36.8% in the prior year.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income increased 7.9% to $224.9 million. Earnings per diluted share of $1.69 represents an increase of $0.18 or 11.9% from the $1.51 earnings per share reported in fiscal 2007.   

34  

Table of Contents 

 Approximately 18 million shares of common stock were repurchased in the second half of fiscal 2008. Since these shares were purchased late in the fiscal year, and the Company borrowed funds to help finance the share repurchases, the resulting net impact on the earnings per diluted share in fiscal 2008 was approximately 1 to 2 cents. The full impact on earnings per diluted share from the repurchases is expected to be approximately 8 cents of accretion.  

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006  

Net Sales. Net sales for the year ended April 28, 2007 totaled $2,798.4 million, an increase of 7.0% from $2,615.1 million in fiscal 2006. The favorable impact of foreign currency translation on sales growth was 0.5%. Acquisitions contributed approximately one percentage point to sales growth.  

The Company acquired Accu-Bite, a dental supplier, in September 2005. This business included both a field sales organization similar to our traditional dental sales model, as well as a low-margin telesales business. For approximately eight months of fiscal 2006, from the date of acquisition through the end of fiscal year, the dental segment operated Accu-Bite’s telesales business. In early May 2006, the telesales operations were closed for business reasons, including continuing losses from operations. In closing the business, as much of the sales volume as could be, was moved into the field organization. However, as the Company expected, much of this sales volume went to dental suppliers who approach the market with a low-price model. The closing of the telesales business had a negative impact on consolidated fiscal 2007 sales growth of approximately one percentage point.  

Sales of our dental supply unit increased 5.0% in fiscal 2007 to $2,064.6 million. Sales of dental consumable supplies grew 5.7%. The Accu-Bite telesales negative impact on sales growth of the dental unit’s total sales and sales of consumable supplies was approximately 1.5% and 2.5%, respectively. Equipment sales grew 1.6%, led by basic equipment growth of 6.1%. Largely offsetting the increase in basic equipment growth was a decline in the sales of CEREC® 3D dental restorative systems.  

Late in the third quarter of fiscal 2007, CEREC’s manufacturer, Sirona, introduced several important enhancements. First, CEREC’s software was significantly improved; making it easier to design highly aesthetic and precise restorations, while also greatly streamlining the system’s learning curve. In addition, a faster and more robust milling unit was introduced as an option on new installations, as well as an upgrade to all existing CEREC users. The Company believes the news of the impending enhancements to CEREC, which reached the market early in fiscal 2007, as well as the timing of the introduction at the end of the third fiscal quarter, and the process of transitioning to these upgraded features, which was still underway at the end of fiscal 2007, has a negative impact on sales throughout the year.  

Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and teeth, grew 14.1% in fiscal 2007.  

Sales at the Webster Veterinary unit grew 15.4% to $399.4 million from $346.1 million. The business has strategically emphasized expansion of its value-added platform, including its equipment and software initiatives. Webster’s core consumables business performed well throughout the year and equipment and software increased 69.6%. Excluding the acquisition impact of Intra Corp, developer and marketer of IntraVet® practice management software, total veterinary sales exceeded prior year sales by 14.2%.  

Patterson Medical consistently grew sales throughout the year, improving 10.7% over fiscal 2006. Three acquisitions related to the unit’s branch office strategy contributed 3 percentage points of the growth and foreign currency translation added an additional 1.5% of sales improvement. During fiscal 2007, Patterson Medical established five full-service branch offices in selected markets through acquisitions and internal start-ups. Also, the business continued to increase its sales force and add programs and systems to advance their value-added offerings.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin declined 40 basis points in fiscal 2007 to 34.6%, primarily due to lower margins at Patterson Medical. In addition, the sales growth of Webster Veterinary outpaced both the dental and rehabilitation segments, resulting in a dilutive impact to consolidated gross margin, since Veterinary gross margins are lower than the other two businesses.  

The Dental segment’s gross margin improved 20 basis points in fiscal 2007. The closing of the Accu-Bite telesales business which operated for eight months in fiscal 2006 and was dilutive to overall dental gross margin during that period, acted to improve Dental gross margins in 2007. The telesales business produced substantially lower gross margins than the traditional dental sales operations. A decline in sales of the high-margin CEREC dental restorative systems during fiscal 2007 negatively impacted gross margin.  

The gross margin of the Veterinary business decreased by 10 basis points compared to fiscal 2006. The negative impact on gross margin of lower agency commissions and vendor rebates in fiscal 2007 was mostly offset by the sales growth of equipment and software, which carry higher margins than core consumables.  

Patterson Medical’s gross margin declined 250 basis points due to several factors. Higher freight costs impacted this business more than the Dental and Veterinary segments due to the nature of the average order size and related package levels. In addition, this segment had fixed price contracts with certain large group customers and price increases from vendors created some margin compression in this customer group. These contracts are renewed periodically, at which time pricing may be renegotiated to address changes in vendor pricing. Many of the contracts were amended in the latter part of fiscal 2007. A third factor in the gross margin decline at Patterson Medical is that the business hired a number of new sales representatives during the past fiscal year who had been given some short-term latitude to establish their book of business through discretionary discounting. This latitude will be phased out as these new representatives reach their sales targets.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio remained unchanged from a year ago at 22.6%, however the ratio in fiscal 2007 was negatively impacted by 30 basis points due to $7.8 million of share-based compensation expense related to the Company’s adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in fiscal 2007.  

Excluding the impact of SFAS No. 123(R), the Dental segment experienced a 10 basis point improvement in its operating expense ratio. The Veterinary segment experienced a 60 basis points decrease in its operating expense ratio, due primarily to leverage on sales growth. In addition, during fiscal 2006 the business incurred costs from the initial expense structure of its greenfield expansion into California. Fiscal 2007 was a year of investment for Patterson Medical in sales and marketing personnel and programs, however the business was able to maintain their operating expense ratio due to growth in sales.  

Operating Income. Operating income was $335.7 million, or 12.0% of net sales. Excluding $7.8 million of expense under SFAS No. 123(R), operating income was 12.3% of net sales, totaling $343.4 million, an increase of 6.3% from $323.0 million in fiscal 2006.  

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $14.2 million compared to $13.4 million in fiscal 2006. For more than half of fiscal 2006, an interest rate swap on $100 million of variable rate debt effectively fixed interest rate expense on the $100 million at 2.6% until the agreement terminated in November 2005. The average debt balance carried in fiscal 2007 was lower than fiscal 2006; however, the weighted average interest rate on the $100 million of variable rate debt was approximately 6.0% in fiscal 2007, resulting in an overall increase in interest expense.  

Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, increased to $8.1 million from $7.3 million. Composed primarily of finance interest income in both years, the increase was due primarily to higher interest rates.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 36.8% in fiscal year 2007 compared to 37.4% in the prior year. During fiscal 2007, the Company finalized several years of Canadian income tax returns and the reversal of   

36  

Table of Contents 

 related tax reserves lowered the effective income tax rate by approximately one percentage point. The impact of SFAS No. 123(R) on our effective tax rate partially offset the finalization of the Canadian tax returns since certain compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) is non-deductible.  

Net Income and Earnings per Share. Net income was $208.3, an increase of 5.0% from fiscal 2006. Fiscal 2007 earnings per diluted share of $1.51 were $0.08 or 5.6% higher than $1.43 earnings per share in fiscal 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) in fiscal 2007 lowered earnings per share by $0.05.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Patterson’s operating cash flow had been the Company’s principal source of liquidity in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, until the issuance of $525 million of debt in the March 2008. Operating activities generated cash of $265.4 million in fiscal 2008 compared with $243.5 million in fiscal 2007 and $164.0 million in fiscal 2006. In fiscal 2006, the Company did not sell approximately $30 million of short-duration finance contracts that were generated as a part of our traditional calendar year-end financing programs. These contracts had an average maturity of less than 24 months and generated interest income at rates approximating what cash would earn, thus the Company elected not to incur the administrative expense of selling these contracts. Had these contracts been sold, cash from operations would have been approximately $200 million.  

Capital expenditures were $36.0, $19.5 and $49.2 million in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Fiscal 2008 significant expenditures included the expansion of our general office building, expansion of an existing distribution center to accommodate multiple business units, the purchase of a distribution center that had been under a short-term lease, and continuing investments in information systems. The expansions of the office building and distribution center were in progress as of April 26, 2008. Fiscal 2006 included several significant projects, including expenditures for shared distribution centers in Kent, WA and eastern Pennsylvania. In addition, 2006 included expenditures for a new distribution facility for the Patterson Medical operations in the U.K.  

The Company expects to invest approximately $30 to $35 million in capital expenditures during fiscal 2009, including the completion of the two projects in progress as of April 26, 2008 and investments in information systems.  

Cash used for acquisitions totaled $22.7 million in fiscal 2008 and included acquisition in all three business units, with the majority being local and regional dealer/distributors in the rehabilitation supply business.  

Payments on long-term debt in fiscal 2008 were $50 million. In March 2008, the Company closed on $525 million of long-term debt financing which was comprised of $450 million of fixed-rate private notes with maturities of five, seven and ten years in addition to a $75 million term loan at a floating rate of interest through a group of banks. The Company used $250 million of the debt financing to repurchase shares under an accelerated share repurchase agreement (“ASR”). The remaining proceeds from the debt issuances were used to repay borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit agreement and for general corporate purposes. $130 million of debt issued in fiscal 2004 becomes due in November 2008. As of April 26, 2008, no amounts are outstanding under the revolving credit facility which expires in fiscal 2013. A total of $300 million is available under this facility.  

During the second half of fiscal 2008, the Company purchased shares of its common stock on the open market, under a 25 million share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company entered into an ASR under which it paid $250 million and took an initial delivery of 6.3 million shares. In total, the Company repurchased approximately 18 million shares for $636.1 million during fiscal 2008. Under the terms of the ASR, the Company could have received additional shares, or could have been required to pay the counterparty in the form of either cash or shares. The final settlement of the ASR occurred in June 2008, with an additional 1.1 million shares being delivered to the Company. After the June 2008 settlement, an additional 5.9 million shares may be repurchased under the current authorization by the board of directors,   

37  

Table of Contents 

 which expires on December 31, 2012. Going forward, in the absence of desirable acquisition opportunities, the Company would likely return excess cash to its shareholders through additional open market purchases of its common stock, or possibly consider a dividend strategy.  

Management expects funds generated from operations and existing cash to be sufficient to meet the Company’s working capital needs for the next fiscal year. The Company expects to continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of its equipment finance contracts. In addition, as of April 26, 2008, $300 million is available under a revolving credit facility. The Company’s short-term and long-term debt facilities are believed to be adequate as a supplement to internally generated cash flows to fund anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives.  

The Company sells a significant portion of its installment sale contracts to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for the Company. The Company is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of its finance contracts and its financial strength. Cash flow could be impaired if the Company’s financial strength diminished to a level that precluded the Company from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. Also, market conditions outside of the Company’s control could adversely affect the ability of the Company to sell the contracts. The Company’s financing business is described in further detail in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Contractual Obligations  

A summary of the Company’s contractual obligations as of April 26, 2008 follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As discussed in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 at the beginning of fiscal 2008. The Company is unable to determine its contractual obligations by year related to this pronouncement, as the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of its reserves for income taxes cannot be reasonably estimated. The total liability for unrecognized tax benefits at April 26, 2008, is $22,689.  

In addition, the Company is contractually committed to approximately $15 million of capital expenditures relating to two projects that are in-process as of April 26, 2008. Completion of these projects is expected to occur in fiscal 2009. For a more complete description of our contractual obligations, please see Notes 7 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Outlook  

Over the last ten years, the Company has been able to grow revenue and earnings through its strategy of emphasizing its value-added, full-service capabilities, using technology to enhance customer service, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and growing through internal expansion and acquisitions. The Company’s growth strategy will continue to focus on these key elements. Maintaining financial flexibility is also a key component of the Company’s future growth. With strong operating cash flow and available credit capacity, the Company is confident that it will be able to financially support its future growth. The strategic initiatives that the Company has implemented in the past two years, as well as those that will be implemented in fiscal 2009 and beyond, will strengthen the Company’s operational platform and contribute to continuing future growth. Given these factors, the Company considers itself well positioned to capitalize upon the growth opportunities in the dental supply, companion-pet veterinary supply and the worldwide rehabilitation supply markets.  

38  

Table of Contents 

In June 2008, the Company’s dental unit announced several changes to its sales and marketing strategies. These changes are being made in an effort to further differentiate the dental unit from its competitors by taking advantage of the unit’s strengths in the marketplace. One of the changes being made is to provide, at no charge, the EagleSoft practice management software module to any dental practitioner not currently using the product. The dental management believes that there are numerous opportunities that arise to expand existing, or establish new, relationships with dental practitioners through this offer. However, the Company could be adversely impacted by the decision to give up the revenue from the practice management software if other forms of revenue generated from the expanded or new relationships are not sufficient to offset the previously recognized software revenues. In fiscal 2008, software unit revenues accounted for less than 1% of consolidated dental revenues.  

Asset Management  

The following table summarizes the Company’s days sales outstanding (DSO) and inventory turnover the past three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) The inventory values used in this calculation are the LIFO inventory values for all inventories except for manufactured inventories and foreign inventories, which are valued using FIFO inventory methods.  

Foreign Operations  

Foreign sales are derived primarily from Patterson Dental and Patterson Medical operations in Canada and from Patterson Medical’s operations in the U.K. and France. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings. However, net sales in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 were enhanced by changes in the exchange rates. Without foreign currency effects, net sales would have been $27.0 million, $12.3 million and $9.3 million lower in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effect in fiscal 2008 was mostly driven by the strengthening of the Canadian Dollar as compared to the United States Dollar. Changes in currency exchange rates are a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to the consolidated operations of the Company.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

The Company has adopted various accounting policies to prepare its consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes that the Company’s policies are conservative and its philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of the Company’s assets and liabilities. Therefore, the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply the Company’s significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of the Company may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that the Company has not previously experienced and for which the Company has not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Revenue Recognition—Our revenue recognition processes involve establishing estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates and other revenue allowances. These estimates are based on historical experience and the facts known at the date of the preparation of the financial statements, but future events could cause actual results to vary from our estimates.  

Inventory and Reserves—Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. The Company continually assesses the valuation of our inventories and reduce the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of our forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. Estimate are made of the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements.  

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets—Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets include copyrights, trade names and trademarks.  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board’s (“FASB”) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (“SFAS No. 142”), requires that goodwill for each reporting unit be reviewed for impairment at least annually. The Company has three reporting units at April 26, 2008, which are the same as our operating units. The Company tests goodwill for impairment using the two-step process prescribed in SFAS No. 142.  

Fair value is determined using widely accepted valuation techniques, including discounted cash flows and market multiple analyses. These types of analyses contain uncertainties because they require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. The Company conduct impairment testing based on our current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, management completed its annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests and determined there was no impairment. Management does not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions used to test for impairment losses on goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, the Company may be exposed to an impairment charge that could be material.  

Long-Lived Assets—Long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such assets. The Company’s definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of an exclusive distribution agreement and customer lists. When impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value. Although the Company believes our estimates and assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such estimates and assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and our financial results.  

Income Taxes—The Company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes.  

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the Company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the Company’s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the Company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The Company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of   

40  

Table of Contents 

 tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made and could materially affect our financial results.  

To the extent that the provision for income taxes would have increased/decreased by 1 percent of income before taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/increased $3.6 million in fiscal 2008.  

Share-based Compensation—The Company accounts for share-based payment awards in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R). The Company recognizes share-based compensation based on certain assumptions including inputs within the Black-Scholes Model and estimated forfeitures. These assumptions require subjective judgment and changes in the assumptions can materially affect fair value estimates. Management assesses the assumptions and methodologies used to estimate forfeitures and to calculate estimated fair value of share-based compensation on a regular basis. Circumstances may change, and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to these assumptions and methodologies and thereby materially impact our fair value determination or estimates of forfeitures. If factors change and the Company employs different assumptions in the application of SFAS No. 123(R), the amount of compensation expense associated with SFAS No. 123(R) may differ significantly from what was recorded in the current period.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of SFAS No. 133” (“SFAS No. 161”). SFAS No. 161 is intended to improve financial standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities by requiring enhanced disclosures to enable investors to better understand their effects on an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. Entities are required to provide enhanced disclosures about: how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and its related interpretations; and how derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity's financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS No. 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. Accordingly, the adoption of SFAS No. 161 is expected at the beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS No. 161 will have on our consolidated financial statements.  

In December 2007, FASB issued Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” ("SFAS No. 141(R)"). SFAS No. 141(R) significantly changes the accounting for business combinations in a number of areas including the treatment of contingent consideration, preacquisition contingencies, transaction costs, in-process research and development and restructuring costs. In addition, under SFAS No. 141(R), changes in an acquired entity's deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions after the measurement period will impact income tax expense. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and will change our accounting treatment for business combinations on a prospective basis. 

In February 2007, FASB issued Statement No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS No. 159”). SFAS No. 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value and is effective at the beginning of fiscal 2009. The Company is currently evaluating the impact SFAS No. 159 will have on our consolidated financial statements.  

In September 2006, FASB issued Statement No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS No. 157”). SFAS No. 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies under other previously issued accounting pronouncements that require or permit fair value measurements but does not require any new fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157, as originally issued, was effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. However, in December 2007, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position FAS 157-b, which   

41  

Table of Contents 

 deferred the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for one year, as it relates to nonfinancial assets and liabilities. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 as it relates to financial assets and liabilities will be effective at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on our financial statements and related disclosures, but do not expect SFAS No. 157 to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.  

Factors That May Affect Future Operating Results  

Certain information of a non-historical nature contained in Items 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Form 10-K include forward-looking statements. Words such as “believes,” “expects,” “plans,” “estimates,” “intends” and variations of such words are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. The statements are not guaranties of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties or assumptions that are difficult to predict; therefore, the Company cautions shareholders and prospective investors that the following important factors, among others, could cause the Company’s actual operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. The factors listed under this caption are intended to serve as cautionary statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following information is not intended to limit in any way the characterization of other statements or information under other captions as cautionary statements for such purpose. The order in which such factors appear below should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.  

   •    The Company’s ability to meet increased competition from national, regional and local full-service distributors and mail-order distributors of dental, veterinary and rehabilitation products, while maintaining current or improved profit margins.  

   •    The ability of the Company to effectuate modifications to the business models of its three operating units to address changes in the individual markets of those business units.  

   •    The ability of the Company to consolidate the distribution, information services, human resources, financial and other administrative functions of its three business units into jointly shared services which meet the needs of the individual business units.  

   •    The ability of the Company to manage rapidly changing energy and commodity prices.  

   •    The ability of the Company to retain its base of customers and to increase its market share.  

   •    The ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified and motivated sales personnel.  

   •    The continued ability of the Company to maintain satisfactory relationships with key vendors and the ability of the Company to create relationships with additional manufacturers of quality, innovative products.  

   •    Changes in the economics of dentistry affecting dental practice growth and the demand for dental products, including the ability and willingness of dentists to invest in high-technology diagnostic and therapeutic products.  

   •    Reduced growth in expenditures for dental services by private dental insurance plans.  

   •    The accuracy of the Company’s assumptions concerning future per capita expenditures for dental services, including assumptions as to population growth and the demand for preventive and specialty dental services such as periodontic, endodontic and orthodontic procedures.  

   •    The rate of growth in demand for infection control products currently used for prevention of the spread of communicable diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and herpes.  

   •    Changes in the economics of the veterinary supply market, including reduced growth in per capita expenditures for veterinary services and reduced growth in the number of households owning pets.  

   •    The effects of healthcare related legislation and regulation, which may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitation and assistive products.  

42  

Table of Contents 

 Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK