PART I

Item 1.Business

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ("Interpublic," the "Company," "IPG," "we," "us" or "our") was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.

About Us

We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Through our 49,800 employees in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Our agencies create customized marketing programs for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services, and gain market share.

The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by multiple IPG agencies working together. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or deliver global integrated programs.

The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, conducts investor relations, manages corporate social responsibility programs, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide certain centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, executive compensation management and recruitment assistance, employee benefits, marketing information retrieval and analysis, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services.

Our Brands

Interpublic is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global networks: McCann Worldgroup, Foote, Cone & Belding ("FCB") and MullenLowe Group, which provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients. Our global media services companies include UM and Initiative, which operate under the IPG Mediabrands umbrella. We also have a range of best-in-class global specialized communications assets as well as premier domestic integrated and digital agencies that are industry leaders.

•McCann Worldgroup is a leading global marketing solutions network comprised of agencies that emphasize creativity, innovation and performance. The global components of McCann Worldgroup are McCann, one of the world's largest advertising agency networks; MRM//McCann, a leading digital marketing and relationship management agency; Momentum Worldwide, a brand experience agency; McCann Health, a top-tier professional and direct-to-consumer health communications network; ChaseDesign, a shopper marketing specialist; PMK-BNC, the best-in-class talent, entertainment and brand agency; and CRAFT, the network’s global adaptation and production arm. UM (media management), Weber Shandwick (public relations) and FutureBrand (consulting/design) align with McCann Worldgroup to deliver fully integrated solutions.

•FCB is a global, fully integrated marketing communications company focused on changing consumer behavior for the benefit of their clients, colleagues and communities. With more than 8,000 people in 109 operations across 80 countries, the network brings a strong understanding of local markets and cultures while continuing a heritage of creativity and success dating from 1873. FCB has its roots in both creative, brand-building consumer advertising and behavioral, data-driven direct marketing.

•MullenLowe Group is a creatively driven integrated marketing communications network with a strong entrepreneurial heritage and challenger mentality. A global creative boutique of distinctive and diverse agencies, MullenLowe Group is rich in local culture with both intimacy and scale, present in more than 65 markets with over 90 agencies. Components include MullenLowe with expertise in brand strategy, creative content development and performance analytics; MullenLowe Profero, full-service, integrated digital marketing; MullenLowe Mediahub, media and communications planning and buying; and MullenLowe Open, behavior-driven activation, customer relationship management ("CRM") and shopper marketing. MullenLowe Group is consistently ranked among the most awarded creative and effective agency 

2

networks in the world and has topped the Effie Index as the most effective global network in terms of points per dollar revenue for the past six consecutive years.

•IPG Mediabrands, as the global media arm of IPG, is responsible for managing marketing investment for many of the world’s most iconic brands. Its portfolio encompasses two global, full-service agencies, UM and Initiative, which are charged with delivering business results for clients, providing strategic counsel and advisory services and navigating the ever-evolving media landscape. This is developed and executed through integrated, data-driven marketing strategies. Rounding out the IPG Mediabrands portfolio of services are its specialty business units: Ansible, Cadreon, MAGNA, Healix, The IPG Media Lab, Mediabrands Insights, Rapport, Reprise and Society. These agencies focus on media innovation, forecasting, product development, branded content, emerging technology, mobile, search and social, out-of-home and more.

•We also have exceptional global marketing specialists across a range of disciplines. Our industry-leading public relations agencies such as Weber Shandwick and Golin have expertise in every significant area of communication management. Jack Morton is a global brand experience agency, and FutureBrand is a leading brand consultancy. Octagon is a global sports, entertainment and lifestyle marketing agency. Our digital specialist agencies, led by R/GA, Huge and MRM//McCann, are among the industry's most award-winning digital agencies. Our premier healthcare communications specialists reside within our global creative networks.

•Our domestic integrated independent agencies include some of advertising's most recognizable and storied agency brands, including Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday and The Martin Agency. The marketing programs created by these agencies incorporate all media channels, CRM, public relations and other marketing activities and have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.

We list approximately 90 of our companies on our website under the "Our Agencies" section, with descriptions, case studies, social media channels and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.

Market Strategy

We operate in a media landscape that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to make investments in creative and strategic talent in areas including fast-growth digital marketing channels, high-growth geographic regions and strategic world markets. In addition, we consistently review opportunities within our Company to enhance our operations through acquisitions and strategic alliances and internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration. As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.

In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market. These include:

•Investment in senior talent:  Our continued ability to attract and develop top talent and to be the industry’s employer of choice for an increasingly diverse workforce have been key differentiators for IPG. We continue to acquire and develop top strategic, creative and digital talent from a range of backgrounds.

•Growing digital capabilities: Our investments in talent and technology - organically growing digital capabilities such as search, social, user experience (UX), content creation, data and analytics, and mobile across the portfolio - promise to drive further growth in this dynamic sector of our business. We continue to internationalize our powerful digital specialist agencies. 

•Innovative media offering: We launched IPG Mediabrands in 2007 to reinvent how we plan, buy and measure media investment for clients. Since then, it has delivered strong growth, and our Company has consistently been a leader in delivering fully competitive, efficient and effective traditional media buying to major clients, as well as automated digital ad buying and data and analytics.

•Investment in emerging and strategic markets: We strengthened our position in emerging markets by driving organic growth as well as completing strategic acquisitions in Asia, Europe, Latin America, North America and Russia.

•Integrated marketing solutions: A differentiating aspect of our business is our utilization of “open architecture” solutions that integrate the best talent from throughout the organization to fulfill the needs of our leading clients.

Together, these steps have built a culture of strategic creativity and high performance across IPG, resulting in IPG posting industry-leading organic growth, as well as increased honors and awards for our Company.

3

In 2016, at both the Cannes Festival of Creativity and the Global Effie Awards, IPG performed better than any other holding group in terms of awards per dollar of revenue. At Cannes, we took home over 200 honors overall. FCB, McCann Worldgroup and MullenLowe Group each won multiple awards, with McCann producing two of the three most awarded campaigns. Other IPG agencies honored include Area 23, Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Prime, R/GA, The Martin Agency, UM and Weber Shandwick, which was the most awarded PR firm at the festival this year. McCann Health was named Healthcare Network of the Year, and FCB Inferno was awarded the Grand Prix in Health & Wellness for its campaign to promote literacy.

In the U.S. market, IPG once again excelled in Advertising Age’s recently released annual “A-List,” a ranking of the industry's ten most innovative and creative agencies. IPG was the only holding company with multiple agencies in the top 10 and was also at the top end of the industry in terms of the range of marketing services honored and recognized. Additionally, the two most watched ads on YouTube in 2016 were campaigns created by IPG agencies MullenLowe and twofifteenmccann. In addition, Campaign magazine named R/GA Advertising Network of the Year and MediaPost named Huge OMMA Digital Agency of the Year. 

Digital Growth

Demand for our digital marketing services continues to evolve rapidly. In order to meet this need and provide high-value resources to clients, we have focused on embedding digital talent and technology throughout the organization. This reflects our belief that digital marketing should be integrated within all of our companies. This structure mirrors the way in which consumers incorporate digital media into their other media habits and, ultimately, their daily lives. We continue to invest in recruiting and developing digital expertise at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines.

To meet the changing needs of the marketplace, we have been active in making new acquisitions and minority investments in specialty digital assets. In addition, we have consistently invested in existing assets such as Cadreon (audience management platform), The IPG Media Lab, Huge, MRM//McCann and R/GA. These companies have unique capabilities and service their own client rosters while also serving as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.

Fast-Growth and Strategic Regions

We continue to invest and expand our presence in high-growth and strategic geographic regions. In recent years, we have made significant investments in Russia, Brazil, India and China, further strengthening our position in these important developing markets. Our operations in India are best-in-class, and we will continue to invest in partnerships and talent in this key market. We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”), among the region's premier marketing services companies. MCN is headquartered in Dubai, with 65 offices across 14 countries. In China, where we operate with all of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest organically in the talent of our agency brands and opportunistically acquire specialty offerings. Additional areas of investment include key strategic markets in North America, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Africa.

Diversity and Inclusion

IPG and our agencies are committed to diversity and inclusion, and we reinforce these values through a comprehensive set of award-winning programs. These include business resource groups that develop career building programs, as well as training around topics like unconscious bias. We seek to ensure accountability by tying executive compensation directly to the ability of our leaders to hire, promote and retain diverse talent, and we regularly measure the inclusiveness of our culture with a company-wide climate for inclusion survey.

We began our formal programs a decade ago. Since then, IPG has seen dramatic improvements in the diversity of our workforce. In the U.S., IPG exceeded the ad industry’s representation rates for women and minorities for both professional-level and management positions in the most recent filings. An environment that encourages respect and trust is key to a creative business like ours, and IPG believes a competitive advantage comes with having a variety of perspectives and beliefs in its workforce.

Acquisition Strategy

A disciplined acquisition strategy, focused on high-growth capabilities and regions of the world, is one component of growing our services in today's rapidly-changing marketing services and media landscape. When an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, we have been opportunistic in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions that enhance our service offerings. We will continue to focus on digital and marketing services agencies throughout the world and on key international growth markets.

In recent years, IPG has acquired agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in digital, mobile marketing, social media, healthcare communications and public relations, as well as agencies with full-service capabilities. These acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or specialist agencies. In 2016, IPG’s acquisitions included a product and service design consultancy based in the U.S., an integrated healthcare marketing communications agency based in the U.S., a content creation and digital agency with offices in the U.S. and the U.K., a mobile consultancy and application 

4

development agency based in the U.K., a full-service public relations and digital agency based in China, a search engine optimization and digital content marketing agency based in the U.K. and a mobile focused digital agency based in the U.K.

Financial Objectives

Our financial goals include competitive organic revenue growth and operating margin expansion, which we expect will further strengthen our balance sheet and total liquidity and increase value to our shareholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate, information technology and shared services, such as finance, human resources and legal. The improvements we have made and continue to make in our financial reporting and business information systems in recent years allow us more timely and actionable insights from our global operations. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage and grow our business. We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term shareholder value.

Financial Reporting Segments

We have two reportable segments, which are Integrated Agency Networks (“IAN”) and Constituency Management Group (“CMG”). IAN is comprised of McCann Worldgroup, FCB, MullenLowe Group, IPG Mediabrands, our digital specialist agencies and our domestic integrated agencies. CMG is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Principal Markets

Our agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Our geographic revenue breakdown is listed below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For further information on a geographical basis regarding revenues for each of the last three years and long-lived assets for each of the last two years, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sources of Revenue

Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated, and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.

Revenues for the creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which we either retain in full or share with the client depending on the nature of the applicable services agreement.

We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing, and corporate and brand identity services.

In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients, as is customary in the advertising and marketing industries. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have 

5

received funds from our clients, and in some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor.

Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work that is typically completed during the fourth quarter. Fee revenue recognized on a completed-contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our revenue recognition accounting policies.

Clients

Our large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 20% and 19% of revenue in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our largest client accounted for approximately 4% of revenue for both 2016 and 2015. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016, our largest client sectors (in alphabetical order) were auto and transportation, healthcare and technology and telecom. We represent several different clients, brands or divisions within each of these sectors in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency brands. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.

We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.

Personnel

As of December 31, 2016, we employed approximately 49,800 people, of whom approximately 19,900 were employed in the United States. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com under the "Investor Relations" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee, and Corporate Governance Committee are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com in the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "About" section, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.

6

Item 1A.Risk Factors