PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

“Newell Rubbermaid” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports

The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

GENERAL

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that touch the lives of people where they work, live and play. The Company’s products are marketed under a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid®, Graco®, Aprica®, Levolor®, Calphalon®, Goody®, Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Dymo®, Parker®, Waterman®, Irwin® and Lenox®. The Company’s multi-product offering consists of well-known, name-brand consumer and commercial products in three business segments: Home & Family; Office Products; and Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products. 

Effective January 1, 2012, under a previously announced plan, the Company implemented changes to its organizational structure that resulted in the consolidation of the Company's three operating groups into two — Newell Consumer and Newell Professional — and its 13 global business units into nine, with the Baby & Parenting global business unit operating as a stand-alone operating segment. These actions are intended to simplify the organization and free up resources to be invested into growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities. These changes are considered key enablers to building a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable Newell Rubbermaid.

Newell Rubbermaid’s vision is to be a global company of Brands That Matter™ and great people, known for best-in-class results. The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer performance and value. The Company's strategy is to build Brands That Matter™ to drive demand, fuel growth through margin expansion and scale synergies and leverage the portfolio for faster growth. The Company's strategy is designed to achieve simultaneous net sales growth, gross margin expansion and increased earnings per share.

In implementing the three tenets of its strategy, the Company is focused on Everyday Great Execution, or "EDGE", to capitalize on and maximize the benefits of investment and growth opportunities and to optimize the cost structure of the business.

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements included in this report.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

Build Brands that Matter™ to Drive Demand

The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands by leveraging an insight-driven innovation process, utilizing and further developing best-in-class marketing and branding capabilities across the organization, and investing in strategic brand-building activities to support long-term sales growth. As part of the insight-driven innovation process, the Company invests in consumer insight programs to better understand its target consumers and their needs. The insights gained from this investment are used to develop focused brand strategies and to create products that deliver meaningful solutions.

The Company also continues to employ resources to further develop best-in-class branding and marketing capabilities across the organization. Each business unit is tasked with evaluating its brands against best-in-class metrics, using a common framework and methodology, and developing a comprehensive plan to achieve the targeted goals. The Company’s continued investment in strategic brand-building activities such as research and development, marketing, and advertising and promotion supports the insight-driven innovation process, creates a more effective marketing organization and increases consumer awareness and demand for its products.

In 2011, the Company continued to support its brands and products with more than $130 million invested in product development, slightly higher than in 2010. This continued focus on insight-driven innovation and product development resulted in the launch 

3
and support of several new products in 2011, including the following:

•Graco® Smart Seat™ All-In-One Car Seat, the first all-in-one car seat to feature a one-time install, stay-in-car Smart Base™ that accommodates newborns all the way up to children weighing 100 pounds;

•Aprica® product line expansion in Japan with car seats and strollers with features to enhance comfort, convenience and maneuverability;

•Rubbermaid® Glass with Easy Find Lids food storage platform, which combines the nesting, stacking and “no spill lid” system with the reheating and serving advantages of glass;

•Calphalon® Kitchen Electrics, which are designed to provide accurate temperature control, even heat delivery and ensure foods cook evenly and thoroughly, for reliable results; 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Rubbermaid® Commercial Products HYGEN Clean Water System, which is a revolutionary mopping system featuring an integrated, innovative water filter for generating cleaner water from dirty mopping water; and

•Lenox®’s innovative new hole saw, which features a unique slotted design for easy plug removal.

Fuel Growth Through Margin Expansion and Scale

The Company’s objective is to achieve best cost and improve productivity through the adoption of best-in-class practices, including leveraging scale, continuing to optimize the supply chain to improve capacity utilization and to deliver productivity savings, reducing costs in nonmarket-facing activities, designing products to reduce input costs, and utilizing strategic sourcing partners when it is cost effective. Achieving best cost allows the Company to improve its competitive position, generate funds for increased investment in strategic brand-building initiatives, and preserve cash and liquidity.

In October 2011, the Company commenced the implementation of Project Renewal, a program designed to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in the most significant growth platforms within the business, funded by a reduction in structural selling, general & administrative ("SG&A") costs. To reduce structural SG&A costs, the Company is consolidating its three operating groups into two and its 13 GBUs into nine effective January 1, 2012. One of the two new operating groups will be primarily consumer-facing ("Newell Consumer"), while the other will be primarily commercial-facing ("Newell Professional"), with the Baby & Parenting GBU operating as a stand-alone operating segment. In connection with this initiative, the Company expects to incur total cash costs of $75 to $90 million and record pretax restructuring charges in the range of $90 to $100 million through the end of 2012. The Company also estimates a total net headcount reduction of approximately 500. The Company expects to generate annualized cost savings of approximately $90 to $100 million after the program is fully implemented by the end of 2012, which will be reinvested in the business to accelerate growth.

In 2011, the Company continued the implementation of the program to simplify and centralize its European business (the “European Transformation Plan”), which includes initiatives designed to transform the European organizational structure and processes to centralize certain operating activities, improve performance, leverage the benefits of scale and to contribute to a more efficient and cost-effective implementation of an enterprise resource planning program in Europe, all with the aim of increasing operating margins in the European region to at least ten percent. The European Transformation Plan is expected to be completed by the end of 2012 and result in aggregate restructuring and other plan-related costs of $110 to $115 million. The Company expects to realize annual after-tax savings of $55 to $65 million upon completion of the implementation of the European Transformation Plan, the majority of which have been realized and are reflected in the Company's 2011 operating results.

The Company continues to evaluate and optimize nonstrategic SG&A expenditures throughout the organization, including centralizing indirect procurement to better leverage the Company's spend.

Leverage the Portfolio for Faster Growth

The Company’s portfolio of brands and products are responsive to innovation and product differentiation, have strong margin and growth potential, and participate in global categories. The Company’s strategy is to leverage its brand and product portfolio for 

4
faster growth by targeting further investment in higher growth businesses and categories to accelerate geographic and category expansion. To accelerate investments in growth opportunities, in 2011, the Company commenced Project Renewal to simplify the organizational structure and generate savings to invest additional resources behind the Company's brands and strengthen capabilities. 

Each of the Company’s global business units (“GBUs”) supports one or more of the Company’s key brands worldwide, with a focus on developing and marketing differentiated products designed to meet consumers’ needs. The GBU structure gives the Company’s key businesses the ability to leverage research and development, branding, marketing and innovation on a global basis. The Company is able to maximize the benefits of its targeted investments in geographic and category expansion because the GBU structure allows the GBUs to take advantage of favorable customer and channel dynamics, optimize valued intellectual property and realize synergies with the Company’s core product categories and competencies.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

The Company’s reportable segments reflect the Company’s focus on building large consumer brands, promoting organizational integration, achieving operating efficiencies in sourcing and distribution, and leveraging its understanding of similar consumer segments and distribution channels. The Company’s 13 GBUs are aggregated into three operating segments, which are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Effective January 1, 2012, the Company, as part of Project Renewal, implemented changes to its organizational structure that resulted in the consolidation of the Company's three operating groups into two and of its 13 GBUs into nine. One of the two new operating groups will be primarily consumer-facing ("Newell Consumer"), while the other will be primarily commercial-facing ("Newell Professional"). In addition, the Baby & Parenting GBU will operate as a stand-alone operating segment and will be reported separately.

Newell Consumer will comprise four GBUs — Home Organization & Style (combines Rubbermaid Consumer, Décor and Beauty & Style); Writing & Creative Expression (combines Everyday Writing and Markers, Highlighters, Art & Office Organization); Fine Writing & Luxury Accessories; and Culinary Lifestyles. Newell Professional will also consist of four GBUs — Industrial Products & Services; Commercial Products; Construction Tools & Accessories (with the addition of the Hardware GBU in the current structure); and Labeling Technology & Integrated Solutions (the Technology GBU in the 2011 structure). Baby & Parenting 

5
will report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer.

Home & Family

The Company’s Home & Family segment consists of five GBUs. Rubbermaid Consumer designs, manufactures and distributes indoor/outdoor organization products and food and home storage products, and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Rubbermaid®, Roughneck® and TakeAlongs®. Baby & Parenting designs, sources and distributes infant and juvenile products such as swings, highchairs, car seats, strollers and playards, and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Graco®, Teutonia® and Aprica®. Décor designs, manufactures or sources and distributes window treatments, drapery hardware and cabinet hardware, and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Levolor®, Kirsch® and Amerock®. Culinary Lifestyles designs, manufactures or sources and distributes aluminum and stainless steel cookware, bakeware, cutlery, small kitchen electrics, and kitchen gadgets and utensils, and primarily sells its products under the trademarks Calphalon®, Kitchen Essentials®, Cooking with Calphalon™, Calphalon®Unison™ and Katana™. Beauty & Style designs, sources and distributes hair care accessories and grooming products and markets its products primarily under the trademarks Goody® and Solano®.

The Home & Family GBUs primarily market their products directly to mass merchants and specialty, grocery/drug and department stores.

Office Products

The Company’s Office Products segment consists of four GBUs. These businesses primarily design, manufacture or source and distribute writing instruments and office solutions, primarily for use in business and the home.

Markers, Highlighters, Art & Office Organization products include permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters and art supplies, and are primarily sold under the trademarks Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol® and Prismacolor®. Technology products include on-demand labeling products, online postage, card scanning solutions and interactive teaching solutions, and are primarily sold under the trademarks Dymo®, Dymo|Endicia™ and Dymo|Mimio®. Everyday Writing products include ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction supplies, and are primarily sold under the trademarks Paper Mate®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America), Sharpie®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol®, Reynolds® and Liquid Paper®. Fine Writing & Luxury Accessories products include fine writing instruments and luxury accessories and are primarily sold under the trademarks Parker®, Waterman® and Rotring®.

The Office Products GBUs primarily market their products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers and other retailers.

Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products

The Company’s Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products segment consists of four GBUs. These businesses design, manufacture or source and distribute cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems, material handling solutions and medical and computer carts, hand tools and power tool accessories, industrial bandsaw blades, cutting tools for pipes and HVAC systems, manual paint applicator products, and window and door hardware.

Industrial Products & Services products include cutting and drilling accessories and industrial bandsaw blades sold under the Lenox® trademark. Rubbermaid Commercial Products primarily sells its cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems, material handling solutions and medical and computer carts and wall-mounted workstations under the trademarks Rubbermaid® and Brute®. Construction Tools & Accessories products include hand tools and power tool accessories primarily sold under the trademarks Irwin®, Vise-Grip®, Marathon®, Quick-Grip®, Unibit® and Strait-Line®. Hardware products include paint applicator products, consumer fasteners and window and door hardware, primarily sold under the trademarks Shur-Line®, Bulldog® and Ashland™.

The Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products GBUs primarily market their products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, department/specialty stores, hardware and commercial products distributors, industrial/construction outlets, custom shops, select contract customers and other professional customers.

6
NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in millions, except percentages) (including sales of acquired businesses from the time of acquisition) for the Company’s three business segments.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries, which includes Sam’s Club, amounted to approximately 11.0%, 11.9% and 12.3% of consolidated net sales for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, substantially across all segments. For more detailed segment information, including operating income and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-Product Offering

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income, and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.

Customer Marketing and Service

The Company strives to develop long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships with its customers and to be their supplier and brand of choice. To achieve this goal, the Company has a value-added marketing program that offers a family of leading brand name consumer products, tailored sales programs, innovative merchandising support, in-store services and responsive top management.

The Company strives to enhance its relationships with customers through exceptional customer service. The Company’s ability to provide superior customer service is a result of its supply chain, information technology, and marketing and merchandising programs that are designed to enhance the sales and profitability of its customers and provide consistent on-time delivery of its products.

A critical element of the Company’s customer service is consistent on-time delivery of products to its customers. Retailers are pursuing a number of strategies to deliver the highest-quality, best-cost products to their customers. Retailers frequently purchase on a “just-in-time” basis in order to reduce inventory carrying costs and increase returns on investment. As retailers shorten their lead times for orders, manufacturers and suppliers need to more closely anticipate consumer buying patterns. The Company supports its retail customers’ “just-in-time” inventory strategies through more responsive sourcing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities, and electronic communications.

Foreign Operations

Information regarding the Company’s 2011, 2010 and 2009 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.

The Company began accounting for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting in January 2010. Under highly inflationary accounting, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. In June 2010, the Venezuelan government introduced a newly regulated foreign currency exchange system, Transaction System for Foreign Currency Denominated Securities (“SITME”). Foreign currency exchange through SITME is allowed within a specified band of 4.5 to 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar, but most of the exchanges have been executed at the rate of 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar. The Company began applying the SITME rate of 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte to U.S. Dollar in May 2010. The transition to the SITME rate resulted in a foreign exchange gain of $5.6 million, which is recognized in other income for 2010. The SITME rate has remained 

7
unchanged at 5.3 Bolivar Fuerte since June 2010, and consequently, there was no foreign exchange gain or loss recorded for the Company's Venezuelan operations during 2011. As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s Venezuelan subsidiary had $43.2 million of net monetary assets denominated in Bolivar Fuertes, and a 5% increase/(decrease) in the applicable exchange rate would decrease/(increase) the Company’s pretax income by $2.2 million.

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, zinc, aluminum and gold. The Company’s resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices, and the Company expects continued inflation pressures in 2012. The Company has reduced the volume of its resin purchases through rationalizing and exiting product lines. On an annualized basis, commodities consumed as raw materials generally represent approximately 10% to 15% of annual cost of products sold, with no single type of commodity representing more than 10% of cost of products sold.

The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. In a limited number of cases, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, the Home & Family segment’s Baby & Parenting and Beauty & Style GBUs rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.

Backlog

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.

Seasonal Variations

Sales of the Company's products tend to be seasonal, with sales and operating income in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. Historically, the Company has earned more than 60% of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year. The seasonality of the Company's sales volume combined with the accounting for fixed costs, such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company's results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company has historically generated more than 65% of its operating cash flow in the second half of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments, and credit terms provided to customers.

Patents and Trademarks

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Rubbermaid®,” “Graco®,” “Aprica®,” “Levolor®,” “Calphalon®,” “Goody®,” “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Dymo®,” “Parker®,” “Waterman®,” “Irwin®” and “Lenox®.”

Customers / Competition

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. The rapid growth of large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to a significant consolidation of the consumer products retail industry and dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.

Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for the retailer to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with products of the Company. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in pricing pressures and the need for strong end-user brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, and continuing improvements in category management and customer service. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established.

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining consumer-meaningful brands 

8
and differentiated products; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; outsourcing certain production to low-cost suppliers and lower-cost countries where appropriate; and experienced management.

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; and contract stationers. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 11.0% of net sales in 2011, across substantially all GBUs. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2011 included (in alphabetical order): Bed Bath & Beyond, Lowe’s, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, United Stationers and Wal-Mart.

Environmental Matters

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.

Research and Development

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. The Company’s research and development costs are incurred to develop new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs.

Employees

As of December 31, 2011, the Company had approximately 19,900 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 2,400 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries which have collective arrangements decreed by statute.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS