PART I 

Item 1. Business. 

General 

The company was originally organized as Caterpillar Tractor Co. in 1925 in the State of California. In 1986, the company reorganized as Caterpillar Inc. in the State of Delaware. As used herein, the term “Caterpillar,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or “the company” refers to Caterpillar Inc. and its subsidiaries unless designated or identified otherwise. 

Principal Lines of Business / Nature of Operations 

We operate in three principal lines of business: 

1. Machinery— A principal line of business which includes the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of construction, mining and forestry machinery—track and wheel tractors, track and wheel loaders, pipelayers, motor graders, wheel tractor-scrapers, track and wheel excavators, backhoe loaders, log skidders, log loaders, off-highway trucks, articulated trucks, paving products, skid steer loaders, underground mining equipment, tunnel boring equipment and related parts. In addition, this line of business also includes Electro-Motive Diesel, Inc. (EMD), a manufacturer of diesel-electric locomotives, which we acquired in 2010. Al so includes the design, manufacture, remanufacture, maintenance and services of rail-related products and logistics services for other companies. 

2. Engines— A principal line of business including the design, manufacture, marketing and sales of engines for Caterpillar machinery; electric power generation systems; marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications and related parts. Also includes remanufacturing of Caterpillar engines and a variety of Caterpillar machine and engine components and remanufacturing services for other companies. Reciprocating engines meet power needs ranging from 10 to 21,700 horsepower (8 to over 16 000 kilowatts). Turbines range from 1,600 to 30,000 horsepower (1 200 to 22 000 kilowatts). 

3. Financial Products— A principal line of business consisting primarily of Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation (Cat Financial), Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc. (Cat Insurance) and their respective subsidiaries. Cat Financial provides a wide range of financing alternatives to customers and dealers for Caterpillar machinery and engines, Solar gas turbines as well as other equipment and marine vessels. Cat Financial also extends loans to customers and dealers. Cat Insurance provides various forms of insurance to customers and dealers to help support the pu rchase and lease of our equipment. 

Due to financial information required by accounting guidance on segment reporting, we have also divided our business into 12 reportable segments for financial reporting purposes. Information about our reportable segments, including geographic information, appears in Note 22 — “Segment information” of Exhibit 13. 

Other information about our operations in 2010, including certain risks associated with our operations, is incorporated by reference from “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of Exhibit 13. 

Company Strengths 

For more than 85 years, Caterpillar has been making sustainable progress possible and driving positive change on every continent. With 2010 sales and revenues of $42.588 billion, Caterpillar is the world’s leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives. The company also is a leading services provider through Cat Financial, Caterpillar Remanufacturing Services, Caterpillar Logistics Services, Inc. (Cat Logistics) and Progress Rail Services Corporation (Progress Rail). Caterpillar is also a leading U.S. exporter. Through a global network of independent dealers and direct sales of certain products, Caterpillar builds long-term relationships with customers around the world. 

Competitive Environment 

Caterpillar products and product support services are sold worldwide into a variety of highly competitive markets. In all markets, we compete on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price. From time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a particular industry or region. Such price discounting puts pressure on margins and can negatively impact operating profit. 

Outside of the United States, certain of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages inherent to operating in their home countries or regions. 

1 

Table of Contents 

Machinery 

The competitive environment for Caterpillar’s machinery business consists of some global competitors and many regional and specialized local competitors. Examples of global competitors include, but are not limited to, Komatsu Ltd., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of the Volvo Group AB), CNH Global N.V., Deere & Co., Hitachi Construction Machinery Co., J.C.Bamford Ltd., Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and LiuGong Construction Machinery N.A., LLC. Each of these companies have varying numbers of product lines that compete with Caterpillar products, and each have varying degrees of regional focus. 

The world economy started to recover from its worst postwar recession in 2009 and that recovery continued throughout 2010. Developing countries had the strongest recoveries, which increased the need for construction and commodities. End users increased equipment purchases to meet this increased demand and dealers began rebuilding their inventories to support higher deliveries. Economic recoveries in the developed economies were weak and unemployment remained near record highs. Most construction continued to decline in developed economies. Despite weak economic recoveries and construction declines, end users purchased more equipment to slow deterioration in their fleets. In response, dealers added to their inventories. Worldwide, the change in dealer inventory practices and increased deliveries to end users resulted in a significant increase in machine sales volume in 20 10. 

Caterpillar’s logistics business provides integrated supply chain services for Caterpillar and approximately 50 customers worldwide. It competes with global, regional and local logistics competitors, including companies such as DHL International, CEVA Logistics and Kuehne + Nagel Inc. The unit has grown significantly since its inception in 1987. 

Caterpillar also provides rail-related products and services through its wholly owned subsidiary, Progress Rail. Progress Rail is a leading provider of a broad range of products and services to the railroad industry, including new and remanufactured locomotives, railcar and track products and design and maintenance services. It competes with global, regional and local competitors, including companies such as GE Transportation, Bombardier, Siemens and VAE Nortrak North America, Inc. 

Engines 

Caterpillar operates in a very competitive engine/turbine manufacturing and packaging environment. The company designs, manufactures, markets and sells diesel, heavy fuel and natural gas reciprocating engines for Caterpillar machinery, electric power generation systems, locomotives, marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agricultural and other applications. In addition, Caterpillar provides industrial turbines and turbine-related services for oil and gas and power generation applications. 

The global competitive environment for reciprocating engines in marine, petroleum, construction, industrial, agriculture and electric power generation systems along with turbines consists of a few larger global competitors who compete in a variety of markets that Caterpillar serves, and a substantial number of smaller companies who compete in a limited-size product range, geographic region and/or application. Principal global competitors include, but are not limited to, Cummins Inc., Tognum AG, GE Energy Infrastructure, Siemens Energy and Wartsila Corp. Other competitors, such as John Deere Power Systems, MAN Diesel SE, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., Volvo Penta (part of Volvo Group AB), Kawasaki Heavy Industries, multiple emerging Chinese competitors and Rolls Royce Group plc compete in certain markets in which Caterpillar competes. An additional set of competitors, including Generac Power Systems,& nbsp;Inc., Kohler Co., and others, are packagers who source engines and/or other components from domestic and international suppliers and market products regionally and internationally through a variety of distribution channels. 

As previously announced, Caterpillar no longer provides new engines for trucks and other on-highway original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) subject to current U.S. and European emissions regulations. Caterpillar will continue to service our previous on-highway engine customers through Caterpillar and truck OEM dealer channels. 

Since the introduction of Caterpillar’s ACERT® Technology in 2003, Caterpillar has continued to focus investment and resources on leveraging this technology. The building blocks for ACERT Technology are flexible and scalable and are being applied as needed based on engine platform and application. Caterpillar is adding several new technologies to our portfolio of ACERT Technologies to meet Tier 4 Interim/Stage IIIB non-road emissions regulations. We believe ACERT provides Caterpillar with a valuable foundation to meet emissions and performance requirements. 

Caterpillar’s remanufacturing business provides services for a variety of products to Caterpillar and other external clients. The remanufacturing business competes on a regional basis with similarly sized or smaller companies. The company launched the remanufacturing business in the 1970s with engines/turbines and is now one of the world’s largest remanufacturers, processing 

2 

Table of Contents 

more than two million units annually and recycling more than 150 million pounds of remanufactured products each year. The business continues to grow at rates well above that of the global economy as a whole. 

Financial Products 

Our financial products business is primarily conducted by Cat Financial. Cat Financial, incorporated in Delaware, is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of Caterpillar. Cat Financial’s primary business is to provide retail and wholesale financing alternatives for Caterpillar products to customers and dealers around the world. Retail financing is primarily comprised of financing of Caterpillar equipment, machinery and engines. Cat Financial also provides financing for vehicles, power generation facilities and marine vessels that, in most cases, incorporate Caterpillar products. In addition to retail financing, Cat Financial provides wholesale financing to Caterpillar dealers and purchases short-term dealer receivables from Caterpillar and its subsidiaries. The various financing plans offered by Cat Financial are primarily designed to increase the opportunity for sales of Caterpillar products and g enerate financing income for Cat Financial. A significant portion of Cat Financial’s activities is conducted in North America. However, Cat Financial has additional offices and subsidiaries in Asia, Australia, Europe and Latin America. 

For over 25 years, Cat Financial has been providing financing in the various markets in which it participates, contributing to its knowledge of asset values, industry trends, product structuring and customer needs. 

In certain instances, Cat Financial’s operations are subject to supervision and regulation by state, federal and various foreign governmental authorities, and may be subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions which, among other things, (i) regulate credit granting activities and the administration of loans, (ii) establish maximum interest rates, finance charges and other charges, (iii) require disclosures to customers and investors, (iv) govern secured transactions, (v) set collection, foreclosure, repossession and other trade practices and (vi) regulate the use and reporting of information related to a borrower’s credit experience. Cat Financial’s ability to comply with these governmental and legal requirements and restrictions affects its operations. 

Cat Financial’s retail leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 56 percent*) include: 

· Tax leases that are classified as either operating or finance leases for financial accounting purposes, depending on the characteristics of the lease. For tax purposes, Cat Financial is considered the owner of the equipment (16 percent*). 

· Finance (non-tax) leases, where the lessee for tax purposes is considered to be the owner of the equipment during the term of the lease, that either require or allow the customer to purchase the equipment for a fixed price at the end of the term (21 percent*). 

· Installment sale contracts, which are equipment loans that enable customers to purchase equipment with a down payment or trade-in and structure payments over time (18 percent*). 

· Governmental lease-purchase plans in the U.S. that offer low interest rates and flexible terms to qualified non-federal government agencies (1 percent*). 

Cat Financial’s wholesale notes receivable, finance leases and installment sale contracts (totaling 12 percent*) include: 

· Inventory/rental programs, which provide assistance to dealers by financing their new Caterpillar inventory and rental fleets (5 percent*). 

· Short-term dealer receivables we purchase from Caterpillar at a discount (7 percent*). 

Cat Financial’s retail notes receivables (32 percent*) include: 

· Loans that allow customers and dealers to use their Caterpillar equipment or other assets as collateral to obtain financing. 

*Indicates the percentage of Cat Financial’s total portfolio at December 31, 2010. We define total portfolio as total finance receivables (net of unearned income and allowance for credit losses) plus equipment on operating leases, less accumulated depreciation. For more information on the above and Cat Financial’s concentration of credit risk, please refer to Note 6 — “Cat Financial Financing Activities” of Exhibit 13. 

3 

Table of Contents 

Cat Financial operates in a highly competitive environment, with financing for users of Caterpillar equipment available through a variety of sources, principally commercial banks and finance and leasing companies. Cat Financial’s competitors include Wells Fargo Equipment Finance Inc., General Electric Capital Corporation and various local banks and finance companies. In addition, many of our manufacturing competitors own financial subsidiaries such as Volvo Financial Services, Komatsu Financial L.P. and John Deere Capital Corporation that utilize below-market interest rate programs (subsidized by the manufacturer) to assist machine sales. Caterpillar and Cat Financial work together to provide a broad array of financial merchandising programs around the world to meet these competitive offers. 

Cat Financial’s financial results are largely dependent upon the ability of Caterpillar dealers to sell equipment and customers’ willingness to enter into financing or leasing agreements. It is also affected by, among other things, the availability of funds from its financing sources, general economic conditions such as inflation and market interest rates and its cost of funds relative to its competitors. 

Cat Financial has a “match funding” policy that addresses interest rate risk by aligning the interest rate profile (fixed rate or floating rate) of its debt portfolio with the interest rate profile of its receivables portfolio (loans and leases with customers and dealers) within predetermined ranges on an ongoing basis. In connection with that policy, Cat Financial issues debt with a similar interest rate profile to its receivables, and also uses interest rate swap agreements to manage its interest rate risk exposure to interest rate changes and in some cases to lower its cost of borrowed funds. For more information regarding match funding, please see Note 3 “Derivative financial instruments and risk management” of Exhibit 13. See also the risk factor titled “Risks to Financial Products Line of Business” for general risks associated with our financial p roducts business included in Item 1A. of this Form 10-K. 

In managing foreign currency risk for Cat Financial’s operations, the objective is to minimize earnings volatility resulting from conversion and the remeasurement of net foreign currency balance sheet positions. This policy allows the use of foreign currency forward and option contracts to address the risk of currency mismatch between the receivable and debt portfolios. None of these foreign currency forward and option contracts are designated as a hedge. 

Cat Financial provides financing only when certain criteria are met. Credit decisions are based on, among other factors, the customer’s credit history, financial strength and equipment application. Cat Financial typically maintains a security interest in retail-financed equipment and requires physical damage insurance coverage on financed equipment. Cat Financial finances a significant portion of Caterpillar dealers’ sales and inventory of Caterpillar equipment throughout the world. Cat Financial’s competitive position is improved by marketing programs offered in conjunction with Caterpillar and/or Caterpillar dealers. Under these programs, Caterpillar, or the dealer, subsidizes an amount at the outset of the transaction, which Cat Financial then recognizes as revenue over the term of the financing. We believe that these marketing programs provide Cat Financial a sig nificant competitive advantage in financing Caterpillar products. 

Caterpillar Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc., is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance. Caterpillar Insurance Company is licensed to conduct property and casualty insurance business in 50 states and the District of Columbia and, as such, is also regulated in those jurisdictions. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and monitors Caterpillar Insurance Company’s financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Caterpillar Insurance Company is also licensed to conduct insurance business through a branch in Zurich, Switzerland and, as such, is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority.  

Caterpillar Life Insurance Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a U.S. insurance company domiciled in Missouri and primarily regulated by the Missouri Department of Insurance. Caterpillar Life Insurance Company is licensed to conduct life and accident and health insurance business in 26 states and the District of Columbia and, as such, is also regulated in those jurisdictions. The State of Missouri acts as the lead regulatory authority and it monitors the financial status to ensure that it is in compliance with minimum solvency requirements, as well as other financial ratios prescribed by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Caterpillar Life Insurance Company provides stop loss insurance protection to a Missouri Voluntary Employees’ Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trust used to fund medical claims of salaried retirees of Caterpillar under the VEBA. 

Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc., is a captive insurance company domiciled in Bermuda and regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. Caterpillar Insurance Co. Ltd. is a Class 2 insurer (as defined by the Bermuda Insurance Amendment Act of 1995), which primarily insures its parent and affiliates. The Bermuda Monetary Authority requires an Annual Financial Filing for purposes of monitoring compliance with solvency requirements. 

4 

Table of Contents 

Caterpillar Product Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar, is a warranty company domiciled in Missouri. It conducts a machine extended service contract program in Germany and France by providing machine extended warranty reimbursement protection to dealers in Germany and France. 

Caterpillar Insurance Services Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Caterpillar Insurance Holdings Inc., is a Tennessee insurance brokerage company licensed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. It provides brokerage services for all property and casualty and life and health lines of business. 

Caterpillar’s insurance group provides protection for claims under the following programs: 

· Contractual Liability Insurance to Caterpillar and its affiliates, Caterpillar dealers and OEMs for extended service contracts (parts and labor) offered by Caterpillar, third party dealers and OEMs. 

· Cargo insurance for the worldwide cargo risks of Caterpillar products. 

· Contractors’ Equipment Physical Damage Insurance for equipment manufactured by Caterpillar or OEMs, which is leased, rented or sold by third party dealers to customers. 

· General liability, employer’s liability, auto liability and property insurance for Caterpillar. 

· Retiree Medical Stop Loss Insurance for medical claims under the VEBA. 

· Brokerage services for property and casualty and life and health business. 

Business Developments in 2010 

Economic and Market Conditions 

Global economic conditions continued to improve throughout 2010, resulting in an increased demand for Caterpillar products. Our focus in 2009 on reducing costs, maintaining solid profitability and cash flow and improving our balance sheet prepared us to ramp up production and add capacity to accommodate current and expected growth in the future. During 2010, improving economies in both the developing and developed countries, replenishment of inventories and rental fleets and an increase in commodity prices all contributed to our increased sales. 

Financial Results and Stockholder Value 

Full year 2010 results marked a significant increase from 2009 in both sales and revenues and profit for Caterpillar. The company realized 2010 sales and revenues of $42.588 billion, a 31 percent increase from 2009, and profit of $2.7 billion, a 202 percent increase from 2009. Our profit per share in 2010 was $4.15, up from $1.43 in 2009. 

Sustainability 

The company has a long-standing commitment to sustainable development and in 2010, we continued to align our sustainability efforts with our business strategy. We were selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) for the tenth consecutive year and were recognized as a leader in the Industrial Engineering sector. DJSI World uses a best-in-class approach designed to identify best practices across the economic, social and environmental dimensions of corporate sustainability. 

Caterpillar Production System (CPS) 

We have continued our focus on deploying CPS with 6 Sigma. Through the implementation of CPS, we believe we have made continued progress on our safety and quality goals, reduced inventory and improved cost performance. CPS continues to be an important component in achieving our near-term goals and our Vision 2020. 

Strategy Update 

In June 2010, we updated our Vision 2020 strategy, which was first introduced in 2005. Our updated strategy is focused on executing our business model to ensure that our customers succeed, delivering superior returns to stockholders and attracting and developing the best people. In addition, we have established key areas of focus that we believe will help us reach our goals, including increasing product development, reducing our cost structure, achieving our profit and cash pull through goals, achieving leadership positions in key industries, products and regions and continued growth in strategic markets. Our updated strategy coincided with the election of Douglas R. Oberhelman as our Chief Executive Officer and an internal reorganization that streamlined our corporate structure and realigned executive responsibilities to provide increased visibility and accountability toward reaching our goals. 

5 

Table of Contents 

Growth Initiatives 

As the global economy continued to improve in 2010, the demand for our products increased substantially. In response to increased demand and improving economic conditions, we announced plans to increase capacity, expand production and make strategic acquisitions, including, but not limited to the following: 

Mining 

· In November 2010, Caterpillar announced that it entered into an agreement to purchase Bucyrus International, Inc. (Bucyrus). Bucyrus designs and manufactures mining equipment for the surface and underground mining industries and provides service for its equipment. The acquisition is part of our strategy to grow our mining business. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. 

· A manufacturing and component assembly facility in Winston-Salem, North Carolina to provide increased capacity for our mining business. The facility will be primarily used for the machining, assembly, test and painting of axle assemblies for large mining machines. 

· Additional investments in our mining business relating to capacity expansion for trucks produced in Decatur, Illinois and Chennai, India. 

Rail 

· In August 2010, Caterpillar acquired EMD. This acquisition continued our strategic plan to grow our presence in the rail industry and enables us to provide rail and transit customers with locomotive, engine and emissions solutions, aftermarket product and parts support and a broad line of rail-related services and solutions. 

· In May 2010, Caterpillar acquired FCM Rail Ltd. (FCM). FCM is a lessor of maintenance of way (MOW) equipment in the United States and expands our service offerings in the MOW industry. 

· In March 2010, Caterpillar acquired the Inspection Products business from GE Transportation’s Intelligent Control Systems division. This acquisition expands the scope and product range of our rail signaling business. The acquired business has operations primarily in the United States, Germany and Italy. 

· A manufacturing facility in Muncie, Indiana to produce diesel-electric locomotives. The facility is expected to begin production in 2012. In addition to increasing our ability to serve the diesel-electric locomotive market, we also expect to be able to pursue transit-rail opportunities, particularly in the United States. 

Engines 

· In October 2010, Caterpillar announced that it entered into an agreement to acquire MWM Holding GmbH (MWM), headquartered in Mannheim, Germany. MWM is a supplier of engines that are capable of operating on a wide range of gaseous fuels including natural gas, biogas, mine gas and industrial waste gas. MWM focuses on generator setups, combined heat and power, trigeneration (heat, power and cooling), as well as complete turnkey solutions, and its engines cover a range of 400 to 4 300 kilowatts. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. 

· A manufacturing facility in Tianjin, China to increase worldwide capacity for our 3500 series engines. The facility is expected to begin production in 2013 and will become our third global source for these engines, with a focus on producing engines for customers in China and the Asia-Pacific region. 

Excavators 

· Increased production capacity of excavators in China by acquiring the remaining ownership interest in Caterpillar Xuzhou Limited (CXL), a joint venture between Caterpillar and Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group (XCMG). We also announced facility expansions for small, medium and large excavators at our Xuzhou, China facility. 

6 

Table of Contents 

· A manufacturing facility in Victoria, Texas to produce hydraulic excavators. The facility is expected to begin production in mid-2012 and, once fully operational, is projected to triple our current capacity for hydraulic excavators produced in the United States. The new facility will manufacture the two models of excavators now made in Aurora, Ill. as well as several additional excavator models produced in Akashi, Japan and exported to the United States. 

· A manufacturing facility in Wujiang, China to produce mini hydraulic excavator models in the under 8-ton range for Chinese customers. Currently, Caterpillar supplies Chinese customers with mini excavators produced at Caterpillar’s facility in Xuzhou, China and with machines produced in Sagami, Japan. This facility is expected to increase capacity for other Caterpillar products at our Xuzhou and Sagami operations. 

· An alliance agreement with Wacker Neuson SE (Wacker), located in Munich, Germany, for the design, manufacture, sale and support of Caterpillar mini hydraulic excavators in the under three-ton category. The agreement calls for Wacker to produce these excavators at its facility in Linz, Austria. 

Backhoe and Wheel Loaders 

· A manufacturing facility in Brazil to produce backhoe loaders and small wheel loaders which are currently made at Caterpillar’s facility in Piracicaba, Brazil. The new facility will allow us to increase capacity for other machines produced in Piracicaba. 

Compact Construction Equipment 

· Expansion of our compact construction equipment operations located in Sanford, North Carolina to provide increased logistics and fabrications capacity to meet the growing global demand for our skid steer, compact track and multi-terrain loaders. The expansion will facilitate increased logistics capabilities and robotic welding technology for fabrication production. 

Components 

· A joint-venture agreement with AVIC Liyuan Hydraulics Co., Ltd. to establish a company to design and manufacture medium- and heavy-duty hydraulic pumps and motors for the construction equipment industry. The joint venture is expected to provide components for use in Caterpillar products as well as third-party machinery and equipment, and enhance our supply base and key component capacity in support of our expansion plans in China. 

Engineering Design 

· An engineering design center in Rapid City, South Dakota to provide additional engineering support services for our U.S. operations. This center will complement the company’s existing engineering design centers. 

Distribution and Logistics 

· Completion of a new logistics center in Suzhou, China to provide inbound logistics support for our growing manufacturing footprint in China and other manufacturing operations in the Asia-Pacific region. In addition, the facility will serve as a consolidation/deconsolidation hub and provide warehousing and distribution support. 

· A parts distribution center in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The new distribution center is the third facility added to Caterpillar’s global service parts distribution network in the last five years and is part of our multi-year expansion and enhancement of the Europe, Africa and Middle East Caterpillar parts distribution network. During the past five years, distribution capacity has been added in Shanghai, China, Moscow, Russia and Waco, Texas. 

Business Combinations 

Information related to acquisitions and alliances appears in Note 23 — “Business combinations and alliances” of Exhibit 13. 

Raw Materials and Component Products 

We source our raw materials and manufactured components from suppliers both domestically and internationally. These purchases include unformed materials and rough and finished parts. Unformed materials include a variety of steel products, which are then cut or formed to shape and machined in our facilities. Rough parts include various sized steel and iron castings and forgings, which are machined to final specification levels inside our facilities. Finished parts are ready to assemble components, which are made either to Caterpillar specifications or to the supplier developed specifications. We machine and assemble some of the components used in our machines, engines and power generation units and to support our after-market dealer parts sales. We also purchase 

7 

Table of Contents 

various goods and services used in production, logistics, offices and product development processes. We maintain global strategic sourcing models to meet our global facilities’ production needs while building long-term supplier relationships and leveraging enterprise spend. We expect our suppliers to maintain, at all times, industry-leading levels of quality and the ability to timely deliver raw materials and component products for our machine and engine products. We use a variety of agreements with suppliers to protect our intellectual property and processes to monitor and mitigate risks of the supply base causing a business disruption. The risks monitored include supplier financial viability, the ability to increase or decrease production levels, business continuity, quality and delivery. 

Order Backlog 

The dollar amount of backlog believed to be firm was approximately $18.7 billion, $9.6 billion and $14.7 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Of the total backlog, approximately $2.8 billion, $2.5 billion and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, was not expected to be filled in the following year. The backlog decrease during 2009 reflects the impact of weak global economic conditions. In 2010, order backlog increased by approximately $1 billion due to the acquisition of EMD. The remaining increase for 2010 compared to 2009 and 2008 year end is primarily due to an increase in order volume across most business units. 

Dealers and Distributors 

Our machines are distributed principally through a worldwide organization of dealers (dealer network), 50 located in the United States and 138 located outside the United States, serving 182 countries and operating 3,475 places of business, including dealer rental outlets. Reciprocating engines are sold principally through the dealer network and to other manufacturers for use in their products. Some of the reciprocating engines manufactured by Perkins Engines Company Limited (Perkins) are also sold through its worldwide network of 142 distributors located in 183 countries. Most of the electric power generation systems manufactured by F.G. Wilson Engineering Limited (FG Wilson) are sold through its worldwide network of 154 distributors located in 179 countries. Some of the large, medium speed reciprocating engines are also sold under the MaK brand through a worldwide network of 19 distributors lo cated in 130 countries. 

Our dealers do not deal exclusively with our products; however, in most cases sales and servicing of our products are the dealers’ principal business. Turbines are sold through sales forces employed by the company. At times, these employees are assisted by independent sales representatives. 

The company’s relationship with each of its independent dealers is memorialized in a standard sales and service agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, the company grants the dealer the right to purchase and sell its products and to service the products in a specified geographic service territory. Prices to dealers are established by the company after receiving input from dealers on transactional pricing in the marketplace. The company also agrees to defend its intellectual property and to provide warranty and technical support to the dealer. The agreement further grants the dealer a non-exclusive license to use the company’s trademarks, service marks and brand names. In some instances a separate trademark agreement exists between the company and a dealer. 

In exchange for these rights, the agreement obligates the dealer to develop and promote the sale of the company’s products to current and prospective customers in the dealer’s service territory. Each dealer agrees to employ adequate sales and support personnel to market, sell and promote the company’s products, demonstrate and exhibit the products, perform the company’s product improvement programs, inform the company concerning any features that might affect the safe operation of any of the company’s products and maintain detailed books and records of the dealer’s financial condition, sales and inventories and make these books and records available at the company’s reasonable request. 

These sales and service agreements are terminable at will by either party upon 90 days written notice and provide for termination automatically if the dealer files for bankruptcy protection or upon the occurrence of comparable action seeking protection from creditors. 

Patents and Trademarks 

Our products are sold primarily under the brands “Caterpillar,” “CAT,” design versions of “CAT” and “Caterpillar,” “Electro-Motive,” “FG Wilson,” “MaK,” “Olympian,” “Perkins,” “Progress Rail” and “Solar Turbines.” We own a number of patents and trademarks, which have been obtained over a period of years and relate to the products we manufacture and the services we provide. These patents and trademarks have been of value in the growth of our business and may continue to be of value in the future. We do not regard any of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. 

Research and Development 

We have always placed strong emphasis on product-oriented research and development relating to the development of new or improved machines, engines and major components. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we spent $1,905 million, $1,421 million and $1,728 million, or 4.5 percent, 4.4 percent, and 3.4 percent of our sales and revenues, respectively, on our research and development programs. R&D expense is expected to increase about 20 percent in 2011, primarily related to the roll-out of products designed to meet applicable emissions requirements. 

8 

Table of Contents 

Employment 

As of December 31, 2010, we employed 104,490 persons of whom 57,171 were located outside the United States. From a global enterprise perspective, we believe our relationship with our employees is very good. We build and maintain a productive, motivated workforce by striving to treat all employees fairly and equitably. 

In the United States, most of our 47,319 employees are at-will employees and, therefore, not subject to any type of employment contract or agreement. At select business units, certain highly specialized employees have been hired under employment contracts that specify a term of employment and specify pay and other benefits. 

As of December 31, 2010, there were 12,496 U.S. hourly production employees who were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. The United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America represents 9,423 Caterpillar employees under a six-year central labor agreement that expires on March 1, 2011 and that we are currently in the process of renegotiating. The International Association of Machinists represents 1,814 employees under labor agreements that will expire on April 30, 2012 and May 17, 2015. 

Outside the United States, the company enters into employment contracts and agreements in those countries in which such relationships are mandatory or customary. The provisions of these agreements correspond in each case with the required or customary terms in the subject jurisdiction. 

Sales 

Sales outside the United States were 68 percent of consolidated sales for 2010, 69 percent for 2009 and 67 percent for 2008. 

Environmental Matters 

The company is regulated by federal, state and international environmental laws governing our use, transport and disposal of substances and control of emissions. In addition to governing our manufacturing and other operations, these laws often impact the development of our products, including, but not limited to, required compliance with air emissions standards applicable to internal combustion engines. Compliance with these existing laws has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or global competitive position. 

We are engaged in remedial activities at a number of locations, often with other companies, pursuant to federal and state laws. When it is reasonably probable we will pay remedial costs at a site, and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the costs are charged against our earnings. In formulating that estimate, we do not consider amounts expected to be recovered from insurance companies or others. The amount recorded for environmental remediation is not material and is included in the line item “Accrued expenses” in Statement 2 — “Consolidated Financial Position at December 31” of Exhibit 13. 

We cannot reasonably estimate costs at sites in the very early stages of remediation. Currently, we have a few sites in the very early stages of remediation, and there is no more than a remote chance that a material amount for remedial activities at any individual site, or at all sites in the aggregate, will be required. 

Available Information 

The company files electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and Form 11-K; proxy materials; ownership reports for insiders as required by Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and other forms or reports as required. The public may read and copy any materials the company has filed with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The company maintains an Interne t site (www.Caterpillar.com) and copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished with the SEC are available free of charge through our Internet site (www.Caterpillar.com/secfilings) as soon as reasonably practicable after filing with the SEC. Copies of our board committee charters, our board’s Guidelines on Corporate Governance Issues, Worldwide Code of Conduct and other corporate governance information are available on our Internet site (www.Caterpillar.com/governance). The information contained on the company’s website is not included in, or incorporated by reference into, this annual report on Form 10-K. 

9 

Table of Contents 

Additional company information may be obtained as follows: 

Current information - 

· phone our Information Hotline - (800) 228-7717 (U.S. or Canada) or (858) 244-2080 (outside U.S. or Canada) to request company publications by mail, listen to a summary of Caterpillar’s latest financial results and current outlook, or to request a copy of results by facsimile or mail 

· request, view or download materials on-line or register for email alerts at www.Caterpillar.com/materialsrequest 

Historical information - 

· view/download on-line at www.Caterpillar.com/historical 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.