Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

The statements in this section describe the most significant risks to our business and should be considered carefully in conjunction with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” of Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. In addition, the statements in this section include “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The discussion and analysis contained in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and other items in this Form 10-K are forward-looking and involve uncertainties that could significantly impact results. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in oral presentations to the public or in other mat erials we issue to the public. Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events about the company or our outlook. You can identify these statements by the fact they do not relate to historical or current facts and by the use of words such as “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “will be,” “should,” “plan,” “project,” “intend,” “could” and similar words or expressions that identify forward-looking statements made on behalf of Caterpillar. 

In particular, these forward-looking statements include statements relating to future actions, prospective products, product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of contingencies, economic conditions, potential returns, financial condition and financial results. Such statements are based on assumptions and on known risks and uncertainties. Although we believe we have been prudent in our assumptions, any or all of our forward-looking statements may prove to be inaccurate, and we can make no guarantees about our future performance. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize or underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could materially differ from past results and/o r those anticipated, estimated or projected. Uncertainties include factors that affect international businesses, as well as matters specific to the company and the markets it serves. 

The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You may, however, consult any related disclosures we make in subsequent Form 10-Q or Form 8-K filings with the SEC. 

The following is a cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that we believe are significant to our business. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following are some of the important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we believe could make our actual results differ materially from those described in any forward-looking statements. You should note it is impossible to predict or identify all such factors and, as a result, you should not consider the following factors to be a complete discussion of risks and uncertainties. 

Our business is highly sensitive to global economic conditions and economic conditions in the industries and markets we serve. 

Our results of operations are materially affected by the conditions in the global economy generally and various capital markets. The demand for our products and services tends to be cyclical and can be significantly reduced in an economic environment characterized by higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, lower corporate earnings and lower levels of government and business investment. 

The energy and mining industries are major users of our machines and engines. Decisions to purchase our machines and engines are dependent upon the performance of the industries in which our customers operate. If demand or output in these industries increases, the demand for our products would likely increase. Likewise, if demand or output in these industries declines, the demand for our products would likely decrease. Prices of commodities in these industries are frequently volatile and change in response to general economic conditions, economic growth, commodity inventories and any disruptions in production. We assume certain prices for key commodities in preparing the general economic and financial outlooks we disclose each quarter (our  

10 

Table of Contents 

“outlooks”). Commodity prices lower than those assumed in our outlooks may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

The rates of infrastructure spending, housing starts and commercial construction play a significant role in our results. Our products are an integral component of these activities, and as these activities increase or decrease inside or outside of the United States, demand for our products may be significantly impacted, which could negatively impact our results. Slower rates of economic growth than anticipated in our outlooks could also adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies may negatively impact our results. 

Most countries have established central banks to regulate monetary systems and influence economic activities, generally by adjusting interest rates. Interest rate changes affect overall economic growth, which affects demand for residential and nonresidential structures, energy and mined products, which in turn affects sales of our products that serve these activities. Interest rate changes also affect customers’ abilities to finance machine purchases, can change the optimal time to keep machines in a fleet and can impact the ability of our suppliers to finance the production of parts and components necessary to manufacture and support our products. Our outlooks typically include assumptions about interest rates in a number of countries. Interest rates higher than those contained in our assumptions could result in lower sales than anticipated and supply chain inefficiencies. p> 

Economic events have reduced the availability of liquidity to fund investments in many markets that we serve. Central banks and other policy arms of many countries have implemented various actions to restore liquidity and increase the availability of credit. The continuing effectiveness of these and related government actions is uncertain and could have an impact on the customers and markets we serve and our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Government policies on taxes and spending affect our business. Throughout the world, government spending finances much infrastructure development, such as highways, airports, sewer and water systems and dams. Tax regulations determine depreciation lives and the amount of money users of our products can retain, both of which influence investment decisions. Unfavorable developments, such as declines in government revenues, decisions to reduce public spending or increases in taxes, could negatively impact our results. 

Commodity or component price increases and significant shortages of component products may adversely impact our financial results or our ability to meet commitments to customers. 

We are a significant user of steel and many other commodities required for the manufacture of our products. As a result, unanticipated increases in the prices of such commodities would increase our costs more than expected, negatively impacting our business, results of operations and financial condition if we are unable to fully offset the effect of these increased costs through price increases, productivity improvements or cost reduction programs. 

We rely on suppliers to secure component products, particularly steel, required for the manufacture of our products. During the global economic downturn, we reduced our own production levels and, as a result, our suppliers experienced significant decreases in demand for their products. Although we monitor the ability of key suppliers to ramp up production in the event that demand continues to grow, we cannot guarantee that they will be able to timely increase production to meet our demands. A disruption in deliveries to or from suppliers or decreased availability of such components or commodities could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our commitments to customers or increase our operating costs. We believe our sources of raw materials and component products will generally be sufficient for our needs in the foreseeable future. However, our business, results of operations or financial con dition could be negatively impacted if supply is insufficient for our operations. 

Disruptions or volatility in global financial markets could limit our sources of liquidity, or the liquidity of our customers, dealers and suppliers. 

Global economic conditions may cause volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. During the 2008-2009 global economic downturn, financial markets decreased the availability of liquidity, credit and credit capacity for certain issuers, including certain of our customers, dealers and suppliers. Although we generally generate funds from our operations to pay our operating expenses, fund our capital expenditures, buy back stock, pay dividends and fund our employee retirement benefit  programs, continuing to meet these cash requirements over the long-term requires substantial liquidity and access to sources of funds, including capital and credit markets. Changes in global economic conditions, including material cost increases and decreases in economic activity in many of the markets that we serve, and the success of plans to manage cost increases, inventory and other important elements of our business may significantly impact our ability to generate funds from operations. Market volatility, changes in counterparty credit risk, the impact of government intervention in financial markets and general economic conditions may also adversely impact our ability to access capital and credit markets to fund operating needs. An inability to access capital and credit markets may have an adverse effe ct on our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 

11 

Table of Contents 

In addition, the global demand for our products generally depends on our customers’ ability to pay for our products, which, in turn, depends on their access to funds. Subject to global economic conditions, many of our customers may experience increased difficulty in generating funds from operations. Further, following capital and credit market volatility and uncertainty, many financial institutions have revised their lending standards, thereby decreasing access to capital. If capital and credit market volatility occurs, the liquidity of our customers may decline which, in turn, would reduce their ability to purchase our products. 

Our global operations are exposed to political and economic risks, commercial instability and events beyond our control in the countries in which we operate. 

Our global operations are dependent upon products manufactured, purchased and sold in the U.S. and internationally, including in countries with political and economic instability. In some cases, these countries have greater political and economic volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than in our other markets. Operating and seeking to expand business in a number of different regions and countries exposes us to a number of risks, including: 

· multiple and potentially conflicting laws, regulations and policies that are subject to change; 

· imposition of currency restrictions, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or other restraints; 

· imposition of burdensome tariffs or quotas; 

· national and international conflict, including terrorist acts; and 

· political and economic instability or civil unrest that may severely disrupt economic activity in affected countries. 

The occurrence of one or more of these events may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Failure to maintain our credit ratings would increase our cost of borrowing and could adversely affect our access to capital markets. 

Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s costs of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions but also by the short- and long-term debt ratings assigned to their debt by the major credit rating agencies. These ratings are based, in significant part, on Caterpillar’s and Cat Financial’s performance as measured by financial metrics such as net worth and interest coverage and leverage ratios, as well as transparency with rating agencies and timeliness of financial reporting. In 2009, each of the major credit rating agencies either modified their outlook for the company and Cat Financial or downgraded the rating. While the rating agencies subsequently improved their outlooks to stable, there can be no assurance that Caterpillar’s or Cat Financial’s credit ratings will not be lowered in the future. 

Although the company and Cat Financial have committed credit facilities to provide liquidity, any downgrades of our credit ratings may increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including restricting, in whole or in part, our access to the commercial paper market. There can be no assurance that the commercial paper market will continue to be a reliable source of short-term financing for the company. An inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. 

Our Financial Products line of business is subject to risks associated with the financial services industry. 

Difficult and volatile market conditions may have an adverse effect upon the financial industry in which Cat Financial operates. Cat Financial is significant to our operations and provides financing support to a significant share of our global sales. The inability of Cat Financial to access funds to support its financing activities to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Inherent in the operation of Cat Financial is the credit risk associated with its customers. The creditworthiness of each customer and the rate of delinquencies, repossessions and net losses on customer obligations are directly impacted by several factors, including relevant industry and economic conditions, the availability of capital, the experience and expertise of the customer’s management team, commodity prices, political events and the sustained value of the underlying collateral. 

Changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions could have a material adverse effect on Cat Financial’s and our earnings and cash flows. Because a significant number of the loans made by Cat Financial are made at fixed interest rates, its business is subject to fluctuations in interest rates. Changes in market interest rates may influence its financing costs, returns on financial investments and the valuation of derivative contracts and could reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. In addition, because Cat Financial makes a significant number of loans in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could also reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. Although Cat Financial manages interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and market liquidity risks through a variety of techniques, includin g a match funding program, the selective use of derivatives and a broadly diversified funding program, there can be no assurance that fluctuations in interest rates, currency exchange rates and market liquidity conditions will not have a material adverse effect on its and our earnings and cash flows. If any of the variety of instruments and strategies Cat Financial uses to hedge its exposure to these various types of risk is ineffective, we may incur losses. With respect to Cat Insurance’s investment activities, changes in the  

12 

Table of Contents 

equity and bond markets could cause an impairment of the value of its investment portfolio, requiring a negative adjustment to earnings. 

The U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law in July 2010 and includes extensive provisions regulating the financial services industry. The impact of this legislation remains uncertain, as regulators continue to propose and adopt implementing rules. If the rules, as adopted, impose significant costs or restrictions on the company, including, without limitation, costs or restrictions on our or Cat Financial’s use of derivatives or asset backed securitizations, we could experience an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 

Cat Financial relies on a number of diversified global debt markets and funding programs to provide liquidity for its global operations, including commercial paper, medium term notes, retail notes, variable denomination floating rate demand notes, asset-backed securitizations and bank loans. Significant changes in market liquidity conditions could impact Cat Financial’s access to funding, increase the associated funding costs and reduce its and our earnings and cash flows. A large portion of Cat Financial’s borrowings have been issued in the medium term note and commercial paper markets. While Cat Financial has maintained access to key global medium term note and commercial paper markets, there can be no assurance that such markets will continue to represent a reliable source of financing for Cat Financial. Should global economic conditions deteriorate or access to debt markets be reduced, Cat Financial could experience materially higher financing costs and become unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow its business and/or meet its debt service obligations as they mature, or it could be required to draw upon contractually committed lending agreements primarily provided by global banks and/or by seeking other funding sources. However, under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance such agreements and other funding sources would be available or sufficient. Any of these events could negatively impact Cat Financial’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The extent of any impact on our ability to meet funding or liquidity needs would depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of any future market disruptions, the effects of governmental intervention in the financial markets including the effects of any programs or legislation designed to increase or restrict liquidity for certain areas of the mark et, general credit conditions, the volatility of equity and debt markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity and the cost of financing and other general economic and business conditions. 

Market disruption and volatility may also lead to a number of other risks, including: 

· Market developments that may affect customer confidence levels and cause declines in the demand for financing and adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which could impact Cat Financial’s write-offs and provision for credit losses. 

· The process Cat Financial uses to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure requires a high degree of management’s judgment regarding numerous subjective qualitative factors, including forecasts of economic conditions and how economic predictors might impair the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans. Financial market disruption and volatility may impact the accuracy of these judgments. 

· Cat Financial’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions or borrow from other financial institutions on acceptable terms or at all could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. 

· As Cat Financial’s counterparties are primarily financial institutions, their ability to perform in accordance with any of its underlying agreements could be adversely affected by market volatility and/or disruptions in financial markets. 

We engage in acquisitions and divestitures, including the recently announced acquisition of Bucyrus; we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these transactions or these benefits may take longer to realize than expected. 

From time to time we engage in strategic transactions involving risks, including the possible failure to successfully integrate and realize the expected benefits of such transactions. On November 14, 2010, we entered into an agreement to acquire Bucyrus, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain closing conditions and regulatory approvals. If the merger with Bucyrus is consummated, the combined company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger, including the expected synergies and cost savings, will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the mining businesses of both companies. Our management will be required to devote significant attention and resources to this integration process, which may disrupt the business of either or both of the companies and, if implemented ineffectively, could preclude realization of the full benefits we expect. 0; Failure to successfully integrate the operations of the Caterpillar and Bucyrus mining businesses or otherwise to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the mining operations of the combined company. In addition, the integration may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and the diversion of management’s attention, and may cause our stock price to decline. The risks associated with the Bucyrus acquisition and our other past or future acquisitions include: 

13 

Table of Contents 

· The business culture of the acquired business may not match well with our culture; 

· Technological and product synergies, economies of scale and cost reductions may not occur as expected; 

· Unforeseen expenses, delays or conditions may be imposed upon the acquisition, including due to required regulatory approvals or consents; 

· The company may acquire or assume unexpected liabilities; 

· Faulty assumptions may be made regarding the integration process; 

· Unforeseen difficulties may arise in integrating operations and systems; 

· The company may fail to retain, motivate and integrate key management and other employees of the acquired business; 

· Higher than expected finance costs may arise due to unforeseen changes in tax, trade, environmental, labor, safety, payroll or pension policies in any jurisdiction in which the acquired business conducts its operations; and 

· The company may experience problems in retaining customers and integrating customer bases. 

Many of these factors will be outside of the combined company’s control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy. With respect to the Bucyrus acquisition specifically, it is possible that regulators will impose conditions on required antitrust approvals, including by requiring dispositions. Even if the mining businesses are successfully integrated, the combined company may not realize the full benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that the combined company expects. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. If we fail to complete the Bucyrus acquisition or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, this could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 

In addition, in order to conserve cash for operations, we may undertake acquisitions financed in part through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. In connection with the announcement of the Bucyrus acquisition, we announced that we intend to issue debt and equity securities to fund the acquisition of Bucyrus. Such acquisition financing could result in a decrease of our ratio of earnings to fixed charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. If we issue equity securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. 

Failure to implement the company’s acquisition strategy, including successfully integrating acquired businesses, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we make strategic divestitures from time to time. These divestitures may result in continued financial involvement in the divested businesses, including through guarantees or other financial arrangements, following the transaction. Lower performance by those divested businesses could affect our future financial results. 

International trade policies may impact demand for our products and our competitive position. 

Government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, in countries in which we sell large quantities of products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, a government’s adoption of “buy national” policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. 

Our introduction of Tier 4 emissions compliant machines and engines may not be successful. 

The EPA has adopted new and more stringent emission standards, including Tier 4 nonroad diesel emission requirements applicable to the majority of our nonroad machinery and engine products commencing in 2011. We previously announced our intent to make our nonroad engines compliant with the new emission standards, including the Tier 4 emission requirements, by the stated deadline. We intend to use certain technology with state of the art integrated systems, as well as the transitional provisions provided by the regulations in order to comply with the Tier 4 emissions requirements. 

Although we are executing comprehensive plans designed to meet Tier 4 emissions requirements, these plans are subject to many variables, including the timing of our Tier 4 engine development and new machine product introduction. If we are unable to meet our plans as projected, it could delay or inhibit our ability to continue placing certain products on the market, which could negatively impact our financial results and competitive position. We are incurring research and development costs to design and introduce products to meet Tier 4 requirements. We plan to include costs associated with Tier 4 development and production in  

14 

Table of Contents 

prices of our products. The level of market acceptance of prices for products that meet Tier 4 requirements could negatively impact our financial results and competitive position. 

The success of our business depends on our ability to develop, produce and market quality products that meet our customers’ needs. 

Our business relies on continued global demand for our brands and products. To achieve business goals, we must develop and sell products that appeal to our dealers, OEMs and customers. This is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to manage and maintain key dealer relationships, our ability to produce products that meet the quality expectations of our customers and our ability to develop effective sales, advertising and marketing programs. In addition, our continued success in selling products that appeal to our customers is dependent on leading-edge innovation, with respect to both products and operations, and on the availability and effectiveness of legal protection for our innovation. Failure to continue to deliver quality and competitive products to the marketplace, to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, to supply products that meet applicable regul atory requirements or to predict market demands for, or gain market acceptance of, our products, could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We operate in a highly competitive environment, which could adversely affect our sales and pricing. 

We operate in a highly competitive environment, and our outlook depends on a forecast of the company’s share of industry sales based on our ability to compete with others in the marketplace. The company competes on the basis of product performance, customer service, quality and price. There can be no assurance that our products will be able to compete successfully with other companies. Thus, our share of industry sales could be reduced due to aggressive pricing or product strategies pursued by competitors, unanticipated product or manufacturing difficulties, our failure to price our products competitively, our failure to produce our products at a competitive cost or an unexpected buildup in competitors’ new machine or dealer-owned rental fleets, leading to severe downward pressure on machine rental rates and/or used equipment prices. 

The environment remains competitive from a pricing standpoint. Our sales outlook assumes certain price increases that we announce from time to time will hold in the marketplace. Changes in market acceptance of price increases, changes in market requirements for price discounts or changes in our competitors’ behavior could have an adverse impact on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 

In addition, our results and ability to compete may be impacted positively or negatively by changes in our sales mix. Our outlook assumes a certain geographic mix of sales as well as a product mix of sales. If actual results vary from this projected geographic and product mix of sales, our results could be negatively impacted. 

Union disputes or other employee relations issues could adversely affect our operations and financial results. 

Some of our employees are represented by labor unions in a number of countries under various collective bargaining agreements with varying durations and expiration dates. While we do not expect to be impacted by employee relations issues, there can be no assurance that future issues with our employees will be resolved or that we will not encounter future strikes, work stoppages or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees. We may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate collective bargaining agreements in the United States and other countries when they expire, including the master collective bargaining agreement with the United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers, which is scheduled to expire on March 1, 2011. If we fail to renegotiate our existing collective bargaining agreements, we could encounter strikes or work stoppages or other type s of conflicts with labor unions. In addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at our facilities in the future. We may also be subject to general country strikes or work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. Any such work stoppages (or potential work stoppages) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the implementation of the Caterpillar Production System (CPS) or other productivity initiatives. 

CPS is a significant productivity initiative that aims to improve our order-to-delivery processes and factory efficiency, as well as to reduce waste and maximize value for our customers. Inability or failure to implement and utilize CPS or other productivity initiatives could have an adverse impact on our business and our results of operations. There can be no assurance that this initiative or others will be beneficial to the extent anticipated, or that the estimated cost savings will be realized. 

Our business is subject to the sourcing practices of our dealers and our Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) customers. 

We sell finished products through an independent dealer network and directly to OEMs. Both carry inventories of finished products as part of ongoing operations and adjust those inventories based on their assessments of future needs. Such adjustments can impact our results either positively or negatively. In particular, some of our engine customers are OEMs that manufacture or could in the future manufacture engines for their own products. Despite their engine manufacturing abilities, these customers have chosen to outsource certain types of engine production to us due to the quality of our engine products and in order to reduce costs, eliminate production risks and maintain company focus. However, we cannot assure that these customers will continue to  

15 

Table of Contents 

outsource engine manufacture in the future. Decreased levels of production outsourcing by these customers could result from a number of factors, such as shifts in our customers’ business strategies, acquisition by a customer of another engine manufacturer, the inability of third-party suppliers to meet specifications and the emergence of low-cost production opportunities in foreign countries. A significant reduction in the level of engine production outsourcing from our OEM customers could significantly impact our revenues and, accordingly, have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We are subject to stringent environmental laws and regulations that impose significant compliance costs. 

Our facilities, operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, we cannot provide assurances that we will not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations or under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. 

In particular, our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements governing exhaust emissions and noise, including standards imposed by the EPA, state regulatory agencies in the United States and other regulatory agencies around the world. For instance, national, state or local governments may set new emissions standards that could impact our products and operations in ways that are difficult to anticipate with accuracy. Thus, significant changes in standards, or the adoption of new standards, have the potential to negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. 

Our global operations are subject to extensive trade and anti-corruption laws and regulations. 

Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations, including U.S. regulations issued by Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of Antiboycott Compliance, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, as well as the counterparts of these agencies in other countries. Any alleged or actual violations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the United States. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. 

In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, or obtaining an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Our continued operation and expansion outside the United States, including in developing countries, could increase the risk of such violations. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. 

Moreover, several of our joint venture partners are domiciled in areas of the world with laws, rules and business practices that differ from those in the United States. Although we strive to select joint venture partners who share our values and understand our reporting requirements as a U.S.-domiciled company and to ensure that an appropriate business culture exists within these ventures to minimize and mitigate our risk, we nonetheless face the reputational and legal risk that our joint venture partners will violate applicable laws, rules and business practices. 

We may incur additional tax expense or become subject to additional tax exposure. 

We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors, including income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and changes in tax laws and regulations. We are also subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures may have an adverse effect on the company’s provision for income taxes and cash tax liability. 

Currency exchange rate fluctuations affect our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. 

We conduct operations in many areas of the world, involving transactions denominated in a variety of currencies. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, because our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. While we customarily enter into financial transactions to address these risks, there can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, while the use of  

16 

Table of Contents 

currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, by utilizing these instruments we potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. 

We also face risks arising from the imposition of exchange controls and currency devaluations. Exchange controls may limit our ability to convert foreign currencies into U.S. dollars or to remit dividends and other payments by our foreign subsidiaries or businesses located in or conducted within a country imposing controls. Currency devaluations result in a diminished value of funds denominated in the currency of the country instituting the devaluation. 

Restrictive covenants in our debt agreements could limit our financial and operating flexibility. 

We maintain a number of credit facilities to support (i) our commercial paper program and (ii) general corporate purposes (facilities) and have issued debt securities to manage liquidity and fund operations (debt securities). The agreements relating to a number of the facilities and the debt securities contain certain restrictive covenants applicable to us and certain of our subsidiaries, including Cat Financial. These covenants include maintaining a consolidated net worth (defined as the consolidated stockholder’s equity including preferred stock but excluding the pension and other post-retirement benefits balance within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)) of not less than $9 billion, limitations on the incurrence of liens and certain restrictions on consolidation and merger. Cat Financial has also agreed under certain of these agreements to maintain a leverage ratio (cons olidated debt to consolidated net worth, calculated (1) on a monthly basis as the average of the leverage ratios determined on the last day of each of the six preceding calendar months and (2) at each December 31) not greater than 10.0 to 1, to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio (profit excluding income taxes, interest expense and net gain/(loss) from interest rate derivatives to interest expense, calculated at the end of each calendar quarter for the rolling four quarter period then most recently ended) of not less than 1.15 to 1 and not to terminate, amend or modify its support agreement with us. 

Although we do not believe any of these covenants presently materially restrict our operations, a breach of one or more of the covenants could result in adverse consequences that could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. These consequences may include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of the facilities, triggering of an obligation to redeem certain debt securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our lenders, refusal by our lenders to extend further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter into new facilities or the lowering or modification of our credit ratings or those of one or more of our subsidiaries. 

In 2008, we received the consent of lenders under certain of our facilities to our lower consolidated net worth of $6.087 billion as of December 31, 2008 and to Cat Financial’s lower quarterly interest coverage ratio of 0.97 as of December 31, 2008. In consideration of these consents, we agreed to increase the upper range of interest rates applicable to amounts that may be drawn by us and Cat Financial under certain of our facilities. 

Sustained increases in funding obligations under our pension plans may reduce our profitability. 

We maintain certain defined benefit pension plans for our employees, which impose on us certain funding obligations. In determining our future payment obligations under the plans, we assume certain rates of return on the plan assets and growth rates of certain costs. Significant adverse changes in credit or capital markets could result in actual rates of return being materially lower than projected and increased pension expense in future years. We may be required to make contributions to our pension plans in the future, and these contributions could be material. Our cost growth rates may also be materially higher than projected. These factors could significantly increase our payment obligations under the plans, require us to take a significant charge on our balance sheet and, as a result, adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

Costs associated with lawsuits or increases in the reserves we establish based on our assessment of contingencies may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

We face an inherent business risk of exposure to various types of claims and lawsuits. We are involved in various intellectual property, product liability, product warranty and environmental claims and lawsuits and other legal proceedings that arise in and outside of the ordinary course of our business. Although it is not possible to predict with certainty the outcome of every claim and lawsuit, we believe these lawsuits and claims will not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. However, we could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of lawsuits and claims that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any particular period. In addition, while we maintain insurance coverage with respect to certain claims, we may not be able to obtain such insurance on ac ceptable terms in the future, if at all, and any such insurance may not provide adequate coverage against any such claims. 

17 

Table of Contents 

As required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies, including contingencies related to legal claims asserted against us. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and require us to make additional material payments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

National governments or inter-governmental organizations may impose carbon emissions regulations. 

The potential for government-mandated reductions of carbon emissions from our facilities and products is increasing. Mandatory reductions being considered by many jurisdictions may take the form of new legislation and/or regulations. For example, in the United States, the EPA has stated that it plans to promulgate regulations governing carbon emissions from automobiles, which may lead to regulation of other mobile sources, as well as stationary sources. Additionally, the American Clean Energy and Security Act has passed the U.S. House of Representatives, and similar legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate. This legislation is also designed to restrict and reduce carbon emissions from U.S. stationary and mobile sources. The final details and scope of these legislative and regulatory measures are unclear and their potential impact is still uncertain, so we cannot fully predict t he impact on the company. Should final legislation or regulations be adopted imposing significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon us or our products, they could negatively impact the company’s capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. 

Changes in accounting guidance could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, as reported in our financial statements. 

Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting guidance issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board. Market conditions have prompted accounting guidance setters to issue new guidance that further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to various transactions as well as to issue new guidance expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided, as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, their effects on our financial statements cannot be me aningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting guidance we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, as reported in our consolidated financial statements. 

Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our operations. 

The occurrence of one or more unexpected events, including fires, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, floods and other forms of severe weather in the United States or in other countries in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. Natural disasters, pandemic illness, equipment failures, power outages or other unexpected events could result in physical damage to and complete or partial closure of one or more of our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers, temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of component products from some local and international suppliers, disruption in the transport of our products to dealers and end-users and delay in the delivery of our products to our distribution centers. Existing insurance arrangements may not provide protection for all of the costs that may arise from such events. 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments as of December 31, 2010. 

None. 

18 

Table of Contents 

Item 1C. Executive Officers of the Registrant as of December 31, 2010. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Item 2. Properties.