PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

General Development of Business  

AMETEK, Inc. (“AMETEK” or the “Company”) is incorporated in Delaware. Its predecessor was originally incorporated in Delaware in 1930 under the name American Machine and Metals, Inc. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of electronic instruments and electromechanical devices with operations in North America, Europe, Asia and South America. AMETEK maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia at 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol: AME), the common stock of AMETEK is a component of the Standard and Poor’s 500 and the Russell 1000 Indices.  

Website Access to Information  

AMETEK’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on the Company’s website at www.ametek.com in the “Investors – Financial News and Information” section as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. AMETEK has posted free of charge on the investor information portion of its website its corporate governance guidelines, Board committee charters and codes of ethics. Those documents also are available in published form free of charge to any stockholder who requests them by writing to the Investor Relations Department at AMETEK, Inc., 1100 Cassatt Road, Berwyn, Pennsylvania, 19312.  

Products and Services  

AMETEK’s products are marketed and sold worldwide through two operating groups: Electronic Instruments (“EIG”) and Electromechanical (“EMG”). Electronic Instruments is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. Electromechanical is a differentiated supplier of precision motion control solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. Its end markets include aerospace and defense, medical, automation, mass transit and other industrial markets.  

Competitive Strengths  

Management believes AMETEK has significant competitive advantages that help strengthen and sustain its market positions. Those advantages include:  

Significant Market Share. AMETEK maintains significant market share in a number of targeted niche markets through its ability to produce and deliver high-quality products at competitive prices. EIG has significant market positions in niche segments of the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. EMG holds significant positions in niche segments of the aerospace and defense, automation, medical and mass transit markets.  

Technological and Development Capabilities. AMETEK believes it has certain technological advantages over its competitors that allow it to maintain its leading market positions. Historically, it has demonstrated an ability to develop innovative new products and solutions that anticipate customer needs. It has consistently added to its investment in research, development and engineering, and improved its new product development efforts with the adoption of Design for Six Sigma and Value Analysis/Value Engineering methodologies. These have improved the pace and quality of product innovation and resulted in the introduction of a steady stream of new products across all of AMETEK’s lines of business.  

2   

Table of Contents 

Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations. Through its Operational Excellence initiatives, AMETEK has established a lean manufacturing platform for its businesses. In its effort to achieve best-cost manufacturing, as of December 31, 2017, AMETEK had plants in Brazil, China, the Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, and Serbia. These plants offer proximity to customers and provide opportunities for increasing international sales. Acquisitions also have allowed AMETEK to reduce costs and achieve operating synergies by consolidating operations, product lines and distribution channels, benefitting both of AMETEK’s operating groups.  

Experienced Management Team. Another component of AMETEK’s success is the strength of its management team and that team’s commitment to improving Company performance. AMETEK senior management has extensive industry experience and an average of approximately 25 years of AMETEK service. The management team is focused on achieving results, building stockholder value and continually growing AMETEK. Individual performance is tied to financial results through Company-established stock ownership guidelines and equity incentive programs.  

Business Strategy  

AMETEK is committed to achieving earnings growth through the successful implementation of a Corporate Growth Plan. The goal of that plan is double-digit annual percentage growth in sales and earnings per share over the business cycle and a superior return on total capital. In addition, other financial initiatives have been or may be undertaken, including public and private debt or equity issuance, bank debt refinancing, local financing in certain foreign countries and share repurchases.  

AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan consists of four key strategies:  

Operational Excellence. Operational Excellence is AMETEK’s cornerstone strategy for accelerating growth, improving profit margins and strengthening its competitive position across its businesses. Operational Excellence focuses on initiatives to drive increased organic sales growth, improvements in operating efficiencies and sustainable practices. It emphasizes team building and a participative management culture. AMETEK’s Operational Excellence strategies include lean manufacturing, global sourcing, Design for Six Sigma, Value Engineering/Value Analysis and growth kaizens. Each plays an important role in improving efficiency, enhancing the pace and quality of innovation and driving profitable sales growth. Operational Excellence initiatives have yielded lower operating and administrative costs, shortened manufacturing cycle times, resulted in higher cash flow from operations and increased customer satisfaction. They also have played a key role in achieving synergies from newly acquired companies.  

Strategic Acquisitions. Acquisitions are a key to achieving the goals of AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. Since the beginning of 2013 through December 31, 2017, AMETEK has completed 18 acquisitions with annualized sales totaling over $1 billion, including three acquisitions in 2017 (see “Recent Acquisitions”). AMETEK targets companies that offer the right strategic, technical and cultural fit. It seeks to acquire businesses in adjacent markets with complementary products and technologies. It also looks for businesses that provide attractive growth opportunities, often in new and emerging markets. Through these and prior acquisitions, AMETEK’s management team has developed considerable skill in identifying, acquiring and integrating new businesses. As it has executed its acquisition strategy, AMETEK’s mix of businesses has shifted toward those that are more highly differentiated and, therefore, offer better opportunities for growth and profitability.  

Global & Market Expansion. AMETEK has experienced strong growth outside the United States, reflecting an expanding international customer base, investments in our global infrastructure and the attractive growth potential of its businesses in overseas markets. While Europe remains its largest overseas market, AMETEK has pursued growth opportunities worldwide, especially in key emerging markets. It has grown sales in Latin America and Asia by strategically building, acquiring and expanding manufacturing  

3   

Table of Contents 

 facilities. AMETEK also has expanded its sales and service capabilities in China and enhanced its sales presence and engineering capabilities in India. Elsewhere in Asia and in the Middle East, it has expanded sales, service and technical support. Recently acquired businesses have further added to AMETEK’s international presence.  

New Products. New products are essential to AMETEK’s long-term growth. As a result, AMETEK has maintained a consistent investment in new product development and engineering. In 2017, AMETEK added to its highly differentiated product portfolio with a range of new products across many of its businesses. They included:  

   •    

Creaform has teamed its SmartDENT 3D™ surface inspection software with its HandyPROBE Next 3D scanner to perform inspection and damage assessment of aircraft surfaces;  

   •    

Dunkermotoren expanded its range of smart motors with external Ethercat electronics with the addition of its flagship BG95 brushless DC motor;  

   •    

Technical Manufacturing Corporation (“TMC”) incorporated the latest vibration isolation technology into its UltraDamp™ system for highly sensitive equipment and SEM-Base® VI system for scanning electron microscopes;  

   •    

Vision Research built upon its award-winning imaging technology in designing the Phantom® Flex4K-GS high-speed camera for scientific research, defense and aerospace applications;  

   •    

Acquired in February 2017, Rauland-Borg Corporation’s (“Rauland”) Responder® 5 systems bring advanced communications, information exchange and intelligent workflow technology solutions to hospitals and healthcare facilities;  

   •    

Reichert Technologies added to its leading position in vision testing and eye disease diagnosis with its ClearChart® 4 family of digital acuity systems;  

   •    

Land Instruments introduced its Near Infrared Borescope non-contact thermal imager for the aluminum and glass processing industries;  

   •    

CAMECA developed the first cryo-transfer local electrode atom probe helping researchers conduct breakthrough research into three-dimensional atomic analysis;  

   •    

EDAX was granted a U.S. patent for the technology that underlies the software for its latest electron backscatter diffraction microanalysis instruments;  

   •    

The ORTEC Detective X™, a handheld radioisotope identifier represents the gold standard for many of world’s leading homeland security and defense agencies;  

   •    

Solidstate Controls designed its SlimLine uninterruptible power supply product line to meet the highly specialized needs of offshore oil and gas platforms;  

   •    

Acquired in June 2017, MOCON, Inc. launched the AQUATRAN Model 3 system to measure the water vapor transmission rate of ultrahigh barrier materials;  

   •    

The SPECTROPORT portable metals analyzer from SPECTRO Analytical Instruments offers advanced optical emission spectroscopy technology in an easy-to-use handheld device; and  

   •    

Grabner Instruments’ MINISCAN IR VISION portable analyzer offers cutting-edge performance and speeds in delivering reliable and accurate analysis of diesel and jet fuels.  

4   

Table of Contents 

2017 OVERVIEW  

Operating Performance  

In 2017, the Company established records for orders, sales, operating income, net income, diluted earnings per share and operating cash flow. The strengthening global economic environment compared to 2016, contributions from recent acquisitions, and continued focus on and implementation of Operational Excellence initiatives, had a positive impact on 2017 results. See “Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details.  

In 2017, AMETEK achieved sales of $4,300.2 million, an increase of 12.0% from 2016 due to 6% organic sales growth, with 5% organic sales growth in EIG and 8% organic sales growth in EMG, and a 6% increase from the 2017 and 2016 acquisitions. Diluted earnings per share for 2017 were $2.94, an increase of $0.75 or 34.2%, compared with $2.19 per diluted share in 2016.  

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Act”). As a result, in the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company recorded a net benefit of $91.6 million in the consolidated statement of income as a component of Provision for income taxes. The Act had the effect of increasing 2017 diluted earnings per share by $0.39. See “Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details.  

Recent Acquisitions  

AMETEK spent $556.6 million in cash, net of cash acquired, to acquire three businesses in 2017.  

In February 2017, AMETEK acquired Rauland, a global provider of enterprise clinical and education communications solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems and educational facilities. Rauland is part of EIG.  

In June 2017, AMETEK acquired MOCON, a provider of laboratory and field gas analysis instrumentation to research laboratories, production facilities and quality control departments in food and beverage, pharmaceutical and industrial applications. MOCON is part of EIG.  

In December 2017, AMETEK acquired Arizona Instrument LLC, a provider of differentiated, high-precision moisture and gas measurement instruments for use in the food, pharmaceutical and environmental markets. Arizona Instrument is part of EIG.  

Financing  

In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company paid in full, at maturity, $270 million in aggregate principal amount of 6.20% private placement senior notes.  

Financial Information About Reportable Segments, Foreign Operations and Export Sales  

Information with respect to reportable segments and geographic areas is set forth in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

AMETEK’s international sales increased 10.1% to $2,214.0 million in 2017. International sales represented 51.5% of consolidated net sales in 2017 compared with 52.4% in 2016. The increase in international sales was primarily driven by organic sales growth.  

5   

Table of Contents 

Description of Business  

Described below are the products and markets of each reportable segment:  

EIG  

EIG is a leader in the design and manufacture of advanced instruments for the process, power and industrial, and aerospace markets. Its growth is based on the four strategies outlined in AMETEK’s Corporate Growth Plan. In many instances, its products differ from or are technologically superior to its competitors’ products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering to develop market-leading products and solutions that serve niche markets. It also has expanded its sales and service capabilities globally to serve its customers.  

EIG is a leader in many of the specialized markets it serves. Products supplied to these markets include process control instruments for the oil and gas, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, semiconductor, automation, and food and beverage industries. It provides a growing range of instruments to the laboratory equipment, ultraprecision manufacturing, medical, and test and measurement markets. It is a leader in power quality monitoring and metering, uninterruptible power systems, programmable power equipment, electromagnetic compatibility (“EMC”) test equipment, sensors for gas turbines, dashboard instruments for heavy trucks and other vehicles, and instrumentation and controls for the food and beverage industries. It supplies the aerospace industry with aircraft and engine sensors, monitoring systems, power supplies, fuel and fluid measurement systems, and data acquisition systems.  

In 2017, 52% of EIG’s net sales was to customers outside the United States. At December 31, 2017, EIG employed approximately 9,200 people, of whom approximately 1,200 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2017, EIG had 86 operating facilities: 55 in the United States, nine in the United Kingdom, eight in Germany, three in Canada, two each in China, Denmark and France and one each in Argentina, Austria, Finland, Mexico and Switzerland. EIG also shares operating facilities with EMG in Brazil, China and Mexico.  

Process and Analytical Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Process and analytical instrumentation sales represented 69% of EIG’s 2017 net sales. These sales include process analyzers, emission monitors and spectrometers; elemental and surface analysis instruments; level, pressure and temperature sensors and transmitters; radiation measurement devices; level measurement devices; precision manufacturing systems; materials- and force-testing instruments; contact and non-contact metrology products; and clinical and educational communication solutions. Among the industries it serves are oil, gas and petrochemical refining; power generation; pharmaceutical manufacturing; medical and healthcare; water and waste treatment; natural gas distribution; and semiconductor manufacturing. Its instruments are used for precision measurement in a number of applications, including radiation detection, trace element and materials analysis, nanotechnology research, ultraprecise manufacturing, and test and measurement.  

Acquired in June 2017, MOCON is a leading provider of detectors, instruments, systems and consulting services to research laboratories, production facilities, and quality control and safety departments in the medical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, packaging, environmental, oil and gas and other industries worldwide. MOCON’s products and technologies complement the Company’s existing gas analysis instrumentation business and provides it with opportunities to expand into the growing food and pharmaceutical package testing market.  

Acquired in February 2017, Rauland is a global provider of enterprise clinical and education communications solutions for hospitals, healthcare systems and educational facilities. Rauland provides the Company with attractive new growth opportunities within the medical technology market, strong growth opportunities in its core markets and incremental growth opportunities through acquisitions and international expansion.  

6   

Table of Contents 

Acquired in July 2016, HS Foils develops patented silicon nitride window technology that significantly expands the limits of x-ray window performance and areas of application. HS Foils also has extensive expertise in silicon PIN diode and silicon drift detector manufacturing.  

Acquired in July 2016, Nu Instruments offers a full suite of magnetic sector mass spectrometers used in advanced laboratory analysis across demanding research applications in the environmental and earth sciences, material characterization and nuclear isotope analysis. Nu Instruments’ customers include leading universities and research institutions, and technical manufacturing and materials analysis companies.  

Power and Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Power and industrial instrumentation sales represented 24% of EIG’s 2017 net sales. This business provides power monitoring and metering instruments, uninterruptible power supply systems and programmable power supplies used in a wide range of industrial settings. It is a leader in the design and manufacture of power measurement, quality monitoring and event recorders for use in power generation, transmission and distribution. It provides uninterruptible power supply systems, multifunction electric meters, annunciators, alarm monitoring systems and highly specialized communications equipment for smart grid applications. It also offers precision power supplies and power conditioning products, and electrical immunity and EMC test equipment.  

Acquired in December 2017, Arizona Instrument is a provider of differentiated, high-precision moisture and gas measurement instruments for use in the food, pharmaceutical and environmental markets. Arizona Instrument complements the Company’s existing Brookfield Engineering Laboratories (“Brookfield”) viscosity measurement business. Its high-quality products support their customers’ increasingly complex production processes and more stringent environmental and safety standards.  

Acquired in January 2016, Brookfield is the global leader in viscosity measurement instrumentation and offers a complete range of viscometers and rheometers, as well as instrumentation to analyze texture and powder flow. Its products are used primarily for quality control applications in a broad range of markets, including food and beverage, pharmaceuticals, oil and gas, paints, solvents, chemicals, coatings and packaging.  

Acquired in January 2016, ESP/SurgeX is a leader in power protection, monitoring, and diagnostic solutions. ESP/SurgeX is the leading industry provider of on-site and remote power protection products used by industries to lower service costs and ensure reliable electric power to critical equipment. Its patented technology is widely used by the business equipment, imaging, audio visual, information technology, gaming and vending industries.  

Aerospace Instrumentation Markets and Products  

Aerospace instrumentation sales represented 7% of EIG’s 2017 net sales. AMETEK’s aerospace products are designed to customer specifications and manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements. These products include airborne data systems, turbine engine temperature measurement products, vibration-monitoring systems, cockpit instruments and displays, fuel and fluid measurement products, and sensors and switches. It serves all segments of the commercial and military aerospace market, including commercial airliners, business jets, regional aircraft and helicopters.  

AMETEK operates in highly specialized aerospace market segments in which it has proven technological or manufacturing advantages versus its competition. Among its more significant competitive advantages is its 70-year-plus reputation as an established aerospace supplier. It has long-standing relationships with the world’s leading commercial and military aircraft, jet engine and original equipment manufacturers and aerospace system integrators. AMETEK also is a leading provider of spare part sales and repair and overhaul services to commercial aerospace.  

7   

Table of Contents 

Customers  

EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG’s operations. Approximately 6% of EIG’s 2017 net sales was made to its five largest customers.  

EMG  

EMG is a differentiated supplier of automation solutions, thermal management systems, specialty metals and electrical interconnects. EMG is a leader in many of the niche markets in which it competes. Products supplied to these markets include its highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used in aerospace and defense, medical, and industrial applications, as well as its advanced precision motion control products, which are used in a wide range of automation applications across the medical, semiconductor, aerospace, defense, and food and beverage industries.  

EMG supplies high-purity powdered metals, strip and foil, specialty clad metals and metal matrix composites. Its blowers and heat exchangers provide electronic cooling and environmental control for the aerospace and defense industries. Its motors are widely used in commercial appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, hydraulic pumps and industrial blowers. Additionally, it operates a global network of aviation maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”) facilities.  

EMG designs and manufactures products that, in many instances, are significantly different from or technologically superior to competitors’ products. It has achieved competitive advantage through continued investment in research, development and engineering, efficiency improvements from operational excellence, acquisition synergies and improved supply chain management.  

In 2017, 50% of EMG’s net sales was to customers outside the United States. At December 31, 2017, EMG employed approximately 7,400 people, of whom approximately 2,200 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2017, EMG had 63 operating facilities: 36 in the United States, ten in the United Kingdom, three in China, two each in France, Germany, Italy, Mexico and Serbia and one each in Brazil, the Czech Republic, Malaysia and Taiwan.  

Technical Motors and Systems Markets and Products  

Technical motors and systems sales represented 65% of EMG’s 2017 net sales. Technical motors and systems primarily consist of precision motion control solutions, brushless motors, blowers and pumps, heat exchangers and other electromechanical systems. These products are used in aerospace and defense, semiconductor equipment, computer equipment, mass transit, medical equipment and power industries among others. Additionally, technical motors and systems includes floor care and specialty motors which are used in a wide range of products, such as household, commercial and personal care appliances, fitness equipment, food and beverage machines, lawn and garden equipment, material handling equipment, hydraulic pumps, industrial blowers, and other household and commercial floor care products.  

EMG produces motor-blower systems and heat exchangers used in thermal management and other applications on a variety of military and commercial aircraft and military ground vehicles. In addition, EMG provides the commercial and military aerospace industry with third-party MRO services on a global basis with facilities in the United States, Europe and Asia.  

Engineered Materials, Interconnects and Packaging Markets and Products  

Engineered materials, interconnects and packaging sales represented 35% of EMG’s 2017 net sales. AMETEK is a leader in highly engineered electrical connectors and electronics packaging used to protect  

8   

Table of Contents 

 sensitive devices and mission-critical electronics. Its electrical connectors, terminals, headers and packaging are designed specifically for harsh environments and highly customized applications. In addition, AMETEK is an innovator and market leader in specialized metal powder, strip, wire and bonded products used in medical, aerospace and defense, telecommunications, automotive and general industrial applications.  

Acquired in October 2016, Laserage Technology Corporation (“Laserage”) offers precision tube fabrication of minimally invasive surgical devices, stents and catheter-based delivery systems. Laserage’s expertise includes laser fabrication of flat stock and tube for medical devices and specialty catheters.  

Customers  

EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG’s operations. Approximately 9% of EMG’s 2017 net sales was made to its five largest customers.  

Marketing  

AMETEK’s marketing efforts generally are organized and carried out at the business unit level. EIG makes use of distributors and sales representatives to market its products along with a direct sales force for its more technically sophisticated products. Within aerospace, the specialized customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers is served primarily by direct sales engineers. Given the technical nature of many of its products, as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts much of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct sales force and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors, both in the United States and in other countries.  

Competition  

In general, AMETEK’s markets are highly competitive with competition based on technology, performance, quality, service and price.  

In EIG’s markets, AMETEK believes it ranks as a leader in certain analytical measuring and control instruments, and power and industrial markets. It also is a major instrument and sensor supplier to commercial aviation. In process and analytical instruments, numerous companies compete in each market on the basis of product quality, performance and innovation. In power and industrial and in aerospace, AMETEK competes with a number of companies depending on the specific market segment.  

EMG’s businesses compete with a number of companies in each of its markets. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and price. There also is competition from alternative materials and processes.  

Availability of Raw Materials  

AMETEK’s reportable segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a variety of sources and generally from more than one supplier. For EMG, however, certain items, including various base metals and certain steel components, are available from only a limited number of suppliers. AMETEK believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for its needs.  

9   

Table of Contents 

Backlog and Seasonal Variations of Business  

AMETEK’s backlog of unfilled orders by reportable segment was as follows at December 31:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31, 2017, approximately 88% is expected to be shipped by December 31, 2018. The Company believes that neither its business as a whole, nor either of its reportable segments, is subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain individual operations experience some seasonal variability.  

Research, Development and Engineering  

AMETEK is committed to, and has consistently invested in, research, development and engineering activities to design and develop new and improved products and solutions. Research, development and engineering costs before customer reimbursement were $221.2 million in 2017 and $200.8 million in both 2016 and 2015, respectively. Customer reimbursements in 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $5.4 million, $7.2 million and $6.9 million, respectively. These amounts included research and development expenses of $130.4 million, $112.0 million and $116.3 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. All such expenditures were directed toward the development of new products and solutions and the improvement of existing products and solutions.  

Environmental Matters  

Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth in Part II, Item 7 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section entitled “Environmental Matters” and in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks  

AMETEK owns numerous unexpired U.S. and foreign patents, including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major industrial countries of the world. It is a licensor or licensee under patent agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under various registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names. AMETEK, however, does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group of them, essential either to its business as a whole or to either one of its reportable segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license agreements are not significant to either of its reportable segments or to AMETEK’s overall operations.  

Employees  

At December 31, 2017, AMETEK employed approximately 16,900 people at its EIG, EMG and corporate operations, of whom approximately 3,400 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. AMETEK has four collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2018, which cover fewer than 400 employees. It expects no material adverse effects from the pending labor contract negotiations.  

Working Capital Practices  

AMETEK does not have extraordinary working capital requirements in either of its reportable segments. Its customers generally are billed at normal trade terms that may include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely controlled and maintained at levels related to production cycles and normal delivery requirements of customers.  

10   

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors