Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively.

We are a global food and beverage company operating in highly competitive categories and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. Any significant changes in consumer preferences or any inability on our part to anticipate or react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. Our success depends on: our ability to anticipate and respond to shifts in consumer trends, including increased demand for products that meet the needs of consumers who are increasingly concerned with health and wellness; our product quality; our ability to extend our portfolio of convenient foods in growing markets; our ability to develop new products that are responsive to consumer preferences, including our “fun-for-you”, “good-for-you” and “better-for-you” products; and our ability to respond to competitive product and pricing pressures. For example, our growth rate may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our current share of the liquid refreshment beverage market in North America, or our current share of the snack market globally, or if demand for our products does not grow in emerging and developing markets.

In general, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population; consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, sugar or other product ingredients or attributes; changes in social trends that impact travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns; changes in weather patterns or seasonal consumption cycles; negative publicity (whether or not valid) resulting from regulatory action or litigation against us or other companies in our industry; a downturn in economic conditions; or taxes that would increase the cost of our products to consumers. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.”, “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.” and “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” 

Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products and improving the quality of existing products, and the effectiveness of our product packaging, advertising campaigns and marketing programs, including our ability to successfully adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, such as through use of social media and online advertising campaigns and marketing programs. Although we devote significant resources to the actions mentioned above, there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Our failure to make the right strategic investments to drive innovation or successfully launch new products or variants of existing products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs.

10
Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.

The conduct of our businesses, including the production, storage, distribution, sale, advertising, marketing, labeling, health and safety practices, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies outside the United States in markets in which our products are made, manufactured or sold, including in emerging and developing markets where legal and regulatory systems may be less developed. These laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Such changes may include changes in: food and drug laws; laws related to product labeling, advertising and marketing practices; laws regarding the import of ingredients used in our products; laws regarding the import or export of our products; laws and programs aimed at reducing ingredients present in certain of our products, including sodium, saturated fat and added sugar; regulatory actions targeting the snack food or beverage industries such as restrictions on the sale of snack and beverage products in publicly regulated venues or restrictions on the use of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program to purchase certain snacks or beverages; increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the effects on health of ingredients in, or attributes of, certain of our products, including without limitation those found in energy drinks; state consumer protection laws; taxation requirements, including taxes that would increase the cost of our products to consumers; competition laws; employment laws; privacy laws; laws regulating the price we may charge for our products; laws regulating access to and use of water or utilities; and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. New laws, regulations or governmental policy and their related interpretations, or changes in any of the foregoing, may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities.

Governmental entities or agencies in jurisdictions where we operate may also impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. Studies are underway by third parties to assess the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients present in some of our products, including sugar, artificial sweeteners, as well as substances such as acrylamide that are naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. Certain of these studies of acrylamide found that it is probable that acrylamide causes cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in extraordinary amounts. If consumer concerns about the health implications of consumption of certain ingredients present in some of our products, including sugar, artificial sweeteners, or acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We are also subject to Proposition 65 in California, a law which requires that a specific warning appear on any product sold in California that contains a substance listed by that State as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. If we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in certain locations where our products are sold, sales of those products could suffer not only in those locations but elsewhere.

In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. Although we have policies and procedures in place that are designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance, our employees or suppliers 

11
could take actions that violate these policies and procedures or applicable laws or regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

In addition, we and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal and environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of business, as well as environmental remediation, product liability, toxic tort and related indemnification proceedings in connection with certain historical activities and contractual obligations of businesses acquired by our subsidiaries. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours and our subsidiaries, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs we have estimated. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. See also “Item 1. Business-Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.” and “Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.”

Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.

The food, snack and beverage industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with major international food, snack and beverage companies that, like us, operate in multiple geographic areas, as well as regional, local and private label manufacturers and other value competitors. We compete with other large companies in each of the food, snack and beverage categories, including Nestlé S.A., Danone, Mondelēz International, Kellogg Company, General Mills and DPSG. In many countries where we do business, including the United States, our primary beverage competitor is The Coca-Cola Company. We compete on the basis of brand recognition, taste, price, quality, product variety, distribution, marketing and promotional activity, convenience, service and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If we are unable to compete effectively, we may be unable to grow or maintain sales or gross margins in the global market or in various local markets. This may have a material adverse impact on our revenues and profit margins. See also “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”

Our financial performance could be adversely affected if we are unable to grow our business in emerging and developing markets or as a result of unstable political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold.

Our operations outside of the United States, particularly in Russia, Mexico, Canada and the United Kingdom, contribute significantly to our revenue and profitability, and we believe that our emerging and developing markets, particularly China, India, Brazil and the Africa and Middle East regions, present important future growth opportunities for us. However, there can be no assurance that our existing products, variants of our existing products or new products that we make, manufacture, market or sell will be accepted or successful in any particular emerging or developing market, due to local or global competition, product price, cultural differences or otherwise. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging and developing markets, or achieve the return on capital we expect as a result of our investments, particularly in Russia, as a result of economic and political conditions, increased competition, reduced demand for our products, an inability to acquire or form strategic business alliances or to make necessary infrastructure investments or for any other reason, our financial performance could be adversely affected. Unstable economic or political conditions, civil unrest or other developments and risks in the markets where our products are sold, including in Europe, Venezuela, Mexico, the Middle East and Egypt, could also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. Factors that could adversely affect our business results in these markets include: 

12
foreign ownership restrictions; nationalization of our assets; regulations on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, which, from time to time, result in significant cash balances in foreign countries such as Venezuela, and on the repatriation of funds; currency hyperinflation, devaluation or fluctuation, such as the devaluation of the Venezuelan bolivar; the lack of well-established or reliable legal systems; and increased costs of business due to compliance with complex foreign and United States laws and regulations that apply to our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, and adverse consequences, such as the assessment of fines or penalties, for failing to comply with these laws and regulations. In addition, disruption in these markets due to political instability or civil unrest could result in a decline in consumer purchasing power, thereby reducing demand for our products. See also “Item 1. Business-Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.”, “Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively.”, “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Our financial performance could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.”, “Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” and “Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchising, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

Many of the countries in which we operate, including the United States and several of the members of the European Union, have experienced and continue to experience unfavorable economic conditions. Our business or financial results may be adversely impacted by these unfavorable economic conditions, including: adverse changes in interest rates, tax laws or tax rates; volatile commodity markets and inflation; contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace due to legislation or other economic conditions such as the European sovereign debt crisis, which may potentially impair our ability to access the capital markets on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all; the effects of government initiatives to manage economic conditions; reduced demand for our products resulting from a slow-down in the general global economy or a shift in consumer preferences for economic reasons or otherwise to regional, local or private label products or other economy products, or to less profitable channels; impairment of assets; or a decrease in the fair value of pension or post-retirement assets that could increase future employee benefit costs and/or funding requirements of our pension or post-retirement plans. In addition, we cannot predict how current or worsening economic conditions will affect our critical customers, suppliers and distributors and any negative impact on our critical customers, suppliers or distributors may also have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition. In addition, some of the major financial institutions with which we execute transactions, including U.S. and non-U.S. commercial banks, insurance companies, investment banks and other financial institutions, may be exposed to a ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, liquidity, default or similar risks as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. A ratings downgrade, bankruptcy, receivership, default or similar event involving a major financial institution may limit the availability of credit or willingness of financial institutions to extend credit on terms commercially acceptable to us or at all or, with respect to financial institutions who are parties to our financing arrangements, leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain currencies or price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials which could have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

13
Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.

We and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business. The principal ingredients we use include apple, orange and pineapple juice and other juice concentrates, aspartame, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruit and other fruits, oats, oranges, potatoes, raw milk, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils and wheat. Our key packaging materials include plastic resins, including polyethylene terephthalate (PET) and polypropylene resin used for plastic beverage bottles and film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles, closures, cardboard and paperboard cartons. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities for us due to their use in our facilities and in the trucks delivering our products. Some of these raw materials and supplies are sourced internationally and some are available from a limited number of suppliers or are in shortest supply when seasonal demand is at its peak. We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy, including fuel. The raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental incentives and controls. We purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. If commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating results. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of certain raw materials and energy, including fuel. Certain of these derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment can result in increased volatility in our net earnings in any given period due to changes in the spot prices of the underlying commodities. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.”, “Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.” and “Market Risks” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

Failure to realize anticipated benefits from our productivity plan or global operating model could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We are implementing a strategic plan that we believe will position our business for future success and growth, to allow us to achieve a lower cost structure and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food, snack and beverage industries. In order to capitalize on our cost reduction efforts, it will be necessary to make certain investments in our business, which may be limited due to capital constraints. In addition, it is critical that we have the appropriate personnel in place to continue to lead and execute our plan. Our future success and earnings growth depends in part on our ability to reduce costs and improve efficiencies. If we are unable to successfully implement our productivity plan or fail to implement it as timely as we anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, we have launched a global operating model to improve efficiency, decision making, innovation and brand management across the global PepsiCo organization. If we are unable to implement this model effectively, it may have a negative impact on our ability to deliver sustained or breakthrough innovation or to otherwise compete effectively.

Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our ability, and that of our suppliers, third-party business partners, including our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint venture partners, independent distributors and retailers, to make, manufacture, distribute and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or transportation 

14
and distribution capabilities due to any of the following could impair our ability to make, manufacture, transport, distribute or sell our products: adverse weather conditions or natural disaster, such as a hurricane, earthquake or flooding; government action; fire; terrorism; the outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities; pandemic; industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; strikes and other labor disputes; or other reasons beyond our control or the control of our suppliers and business partners. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.

Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. Product contamination or tampering, the failure to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials and ingredients obtained from suppliers, or allegations of product quality issues, mislabeling or contamination, even if untrue, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. If any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, causes injury or is mislabeled, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability issue could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. In addition, we operate globally, which requires us to comply with numerous local regulations, including, without limitation, anti-corruption laws and competition laws. In the event that our employees, bottlers or agents engage in improper activities abroad, we may be subject to enforcement actions, litigation, loss of sales or other consequences which may cause us to suffer damage to our reputation in the United States and abroad. Our reputation could also be adversely impacted by any of the following, or by adverse publicity (whether or not valid) relating thereto: the failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities; the failure to achieve our goals with respect to sodium, saturated fat and added sugar reduction or the development of our global nutrition business; health concerns about our products or particular ingredients in our products; our research and development efforts; our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, energy use and waste management; the practices of our bottlers with respect to any of the foregoing; or our responses to any of the foregoing. In addition, water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and demand for water continues to increase. Our reputation could be damaged if we or others in our industry do not act, or are perceived not to act, responsibly with respect to water use. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial information could also hurt our reputation. Furthermore, the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination, and, as a result, negative or inaccurate posts or comments on such sites may also generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”

Failure to successfully complete or integrate acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations, or to complete or manage divestitures or refranchisings, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and refranchisings. Potential issues associated with these activities could include, among other things, our ability to realize the full extent of the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the completion of an acquisition, divestiture 

15
or refranchising, or the formation of a joint venture, within the anticipated time frame, or at all; receipt of necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with an acquisition, joint venture, divestiture or refranchising; and diversion of management’s attention from base strategies and objectives. With respect to acquisitions, the following also pose potential risks: our ability to successfully combine our businesses with the business of the acquired company, including integrating the manufacturing, distribution, sales and administrative support activities and information technology systems between our Company and the acquired company and successfully operating in new categories; motivating, recruiting and retaining executives and key employees; conforming standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting), procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between our Company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining corporate and administrative infrastructures; consolidating sales and marketing operations; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of the acquisitions. With respect to joint ventures, we share ownership and management responsibility of a company with one or more parties who may or may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities or resources as we do and joint ventures are intended to be operated for the benefit of all co-owners, rather than for our exclusive benefit. In addition, acquisitions and joint ventures outside of the United States increase our exposure to risks associated with operations outside of the United States, including fluctuations in exchange rates and compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, and laws and regulations outside the United States. With respect to divestitures and refranchisings, we may not be able to complete such transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all. In addition, as divestitures and refranchisings may reduce our direct control over certain aspects of our business, any failure to maintain good relations with divested or refranchised businesses in our supply or sales chain may adversely impact sales or business performance. If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, or if a divestiture or refranchising is not successfully completed or managed, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. 

If we are unable to hire or retain key employees or a highly skilled and diverse workforce, it could have a negative impact on our business. 

Our continued growth requires us to hire, retain and develop our leadership bench and a highly skilled and diverse workforce. We compete to hire new employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop an adequate succession plan to backfill current leadership positions, including our Chief Executive Officer, or to hire and retain a diverse workforce could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs.

Trade consolidation or the loss of any key customer could adversely affect our financial performance.

We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including Wal-Mart, as well as other retailers, to effectively compete. The loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. In addition, our industry has been affected by increasing concentration of retail ownership, particularly in the United States and Europe, which may impact our ability to compete as such retailers may demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, should larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to any such actions or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers 

16
could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance.

Our borrowing costs and access to capital and credit markets may be adversely affected by a downgrade or potential downgrade of our credit ratings.

Our objective is to maintain credit ratings that provide us with ready access to global capital and credit markets. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, especially any downgrade to below investment grade, could increase our future borrowing costs and impair our ability to access capital and credit markets on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, any downgrade of our current short-term credit ratings could impair our ability to access the commercial paper market with the same flexibility that we have experienced historically, and therefore require us to rely more heavily on more expensive types of debt financing. Our borrowing costs and access to the commercial paper market could also be adversely affected if a credit rating agency announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade. See also “Our Liquidity and Capital Resources” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 

If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively, our business could suffer.

We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations, to interface with our customers, to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, to comply with regulatory financial reporting, legal and tax requirements, and for digital marketing activities and electronic communication among our locations around the world and between our personnel and the personnel of our independent bottlers, contract manufacturers, joint ventures, suppliers or other third-party partners. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, the loss of or damage to intellectual property, or the loss of sensitive or confidential data through security breach or otherwise.

We have embarked on multi-year business transformation initiatives to migrate certain of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. There can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.

In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform or do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, the loss of sensitive data through security breach or otherwise, litigation or remediation costs and could have a negative impact on employee morale.

Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting confidential information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets, litigation, remediation costs, damage to our reputation and 

17
loss of revenue resulting from unauthorized use of confidential information or failure to retain or attract customers following such an event. 

Fluctuations in exchange rates may have an adverse impact on our business results or financial condition.

We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the United States are translated into U.S. dollars. Our operations outside of the U.S. generate a significant portion of our net revenue. Fluctuations in exchange rates may therefore adversely impact our business results or financial condition. See also “Market Risks” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect our business and operations.

There is concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. In the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products, such as sugar cane, corn, wheat, rice, oats, potatoes and various fruits. We may also be subjected to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of such change, which could impact our manufacturing and distribution operations. In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather conditions may disrupt the productivity of our facilities or the operation of our supply chain. The increasing concern over climate change also may result in more regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. In the event that such regulation is more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operation and delivery. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the cost of energy, including fuel, required to operate our facilities or transport and distribute our products, thereby substantially increasing the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. As a result, climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”, “Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.” and “Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.” 

A portion of our workforce belongs to unions. Failure to successfully renew collective bargaining agreements, or strikes or work stoppages could cause our business to suffer.

Many of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire on various dates. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions could occur if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. 

18
Our intellectual property rights could be infringed or challenged and reduce the value of our products and brands and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business. These intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. We protect our intellectual property rights globally through a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret laws, third-party assignment and nondisclosure agreements and monitoring of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. If we fail to obtain or adequately protect our ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets, or if there is a change in law that limits or removes the current legal protections of our intellectual property, the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”

Potential liabilities and costs from litigation or legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We and our subsidiaries are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to litigation related to our marketing or commercial practices, product labels and environmental and insurance matters. Since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management’s assessment of the materiality of these matters, including the reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. In the event that management’s assessment of materiality on current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations or cash flows. See also “Any damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.

We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2012 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.

Item 2. Properties.