Item 1A. RISK FACTORS  

The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully, in connection with all of the other information set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements.  

Continuing uncertain economic conditions and volatility in the financial markets could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.  

Continued recessionary trends in the U.S. or global economy, or an uncertain economic outlook, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Unfavorable economic conditions may continue to cause customers to reduce, modify, delay, or cancel purchasing our products and services, and a prolonged period of economic instability could reduce their ability to make payments. Furthermore, such conditions could cause our suppliers to reduce their production, decrease their number of product offerings, or change their terms of sale to us. Increasing commodity prices would also increase our cost of operations, either directly through increased energy costs or indirectly through what we are charged by our suppliers. Unfavorable economic conditions could also cause changes in our product mix as our customers prioritize established, low-margin products rather than innovative, high-margin products, which could reduce our profit margin.  

In addition, volatility and other disruptions in the financial markets could adversely affect the cost and availability of credit to us, as well as the cost of, and ability to sell finance contracts we receive from customers to outside financial institutions. Reduced access to capital for our customers limits the amount of investment that they can make in their practices, and with limited investment by the customer our revenues from equipment sales would be lower.  

The dental supply, veterinary supply, and rehabilitation and assistive products supply markets are highly fragmented and competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully.  

Our competitors include national, regional and local full-service distributors, mail-order distributors and, increasingly, Internet-based businesses. Some of our competitors have greater resources than we do, or operate through different sales and distribution models that could allow them to compete more successfully. For example, many of our suppliers are manufacturers, some of whom compete with us by selling directly to customers. Furthermore, Internet-based businesses may be able to offer the same product at a lower cost.  

Most of our products are available from multiple sources, and our customers tend to have relationships with several different distributors who can fulfill their orders. Our competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. Industry consolidation among suppliers, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. Our failure to compete effectively may limit and/or reduce our revenue, profitability and cash flow.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Risks inherent in acquiring other businesses could offset the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may face difficulty in efficiently and effectively integrating acquired businesses since we operate in three distinct segments.  

As a part of our business strategy, we have acquired businesses in the ordinary course and expect to continue acquiring businesses in the future. These acquisitions can involve a number of risks and challenges, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability. Such risks and challenges include underperformance relative to our expectations and the price paid for the acquisition; unanticipated demands on our management and operational resources; difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and systems; retention of customers of the combined businesses; assumption of contingent liabilities; and acquisition-related earnings charges.  

Our ability to continue to make acquisitions will depend upon our success in identifying suitable targets, which requires substantial judgment in assessing their values, strengths, weaknesses, liabilities and potential profitability, as well as the availability of suitable candidates at acceptable prices, and whether restrictions are imposed by anti-trust or other regulations.  

In addition, our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect because of difficulties integrating the acquired businesses, including their personnel, customers, operations and systems. As we operate in three distinct segments, we need to consolidate the distribution, information technology, human resources, financial and other administrative functions of those business units jointly to meet their needs while addressing distinctions in the individual markets of those segments. We may not be able to do so effectively and efficiently.  

Our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results.  

There are a number of risks inherent in foreign operations, including complex regulatory requirements, staffing and management complexities, import and export costs, other economic factors and political considerations subject to unanticipated changes. Additionally, foreign operations expose us to foreign currency fluctuations. Furthermore, we generally do not hedge translation exposure with respect to foreign operations.  

We depend on our relationships with our sales representatives and customers, as well as suppliers of the products that we distribute.  

The inability to attract or retain qualified employees, particularly sales representatives who relate directly with our customers, or our inability to build or maintain relationships with suppliers of products that we distribute may have an adverse effect on our business.  

We are dependent on our suppliers because we do not manufacture the majority of the products we sell.  

Interruptions in supply could adversely affect our operating results. If a supplier is unable to deliver product in a timely and efficient manner, whether due to financial difficulties, natural disasters or other reasons, we could experience lost sales. We generally do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers that commit them to producing products for us.  

While there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, there is considerable concentration within our veterinary and dental businesses with a few key suppliers. For example, in fiscal 2012 and 2011, Webster’s top 10 veterinary supply manufacturers were both comprised of 67%, respectively, and the single largest supplier was comprised 13%, respectively, of the total cost of veterinary supply sales. In the event that any of our suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products we sell in the amounts we require, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. An extended interruption in the supply of our products would have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

27  

Table of Contents 

In addition, a portion of our products are sourced, directly or indirectly, from outside the United States. Political or financial instability, increased tariffs, restrictions on trade, currency exchange rates, labor unrest, outbreak of pandemics or other events could slow distribution activities and affect foreign trade beyond our control and adversely affect our results of operations.  

The products we sell are subject to market and technological obsolescence.  

We carry over 100,000 different product stock keeping units (SKUs). Some of these products are subject to technological obsolescence outside of our control, since we do not manufacture the majority of the products we sell. If our customers discontinue purchasing a given product, we might have to record expense related to the diminution in value of inventories we have in stock, and depending on the magnitude, that expense could adversely impact our operating results.  

Audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.  

The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities.  

We are subject to a variety of litigation that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

We are subject to a variety of litigation incidental to our business, including product liability claims, intellectual property claims, and employment claims. We also may be subject to securities litigation. Defending these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, may be expensive, and may require that we pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against potential loss exposure. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation.  

Our future success depends on our leadership development and succession planning.  

Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to recruit skilled personnel, and then identify and train our personnel to transition into key roles to support the long-term growth of our business. While our board of directors and management actively monitor our succession plans and processes, our business could suffer if we lose key personnel unexpectedly. In addition, competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel.  

We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired.  

Our balance sheet includes goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. If impairment of our goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets is determined, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the period of such determination under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  

The healthcare industry is experiencing substantial changes, which are causing uncertainty in the market and may adversely affect our dental and rehabilitation and assistive products supply businesses.  

The healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. In recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including: trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies;  

28  

Table of Contents 

 consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based healthcare practitioners that may enable purchasing at more favorable prices than we can obtain and may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship; and changes in reimbursements to customers. Our profit margins and the profit margins of our suppliers and our customers may be adversely affected by industry changes. If we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected.  

In particular, recent healthcare related legislation and regulation in the U.S. may affect expenditures or reimbursements for rehabilitation and assistive products or expenditures or reimbursements for dental services by private dental insurance plans. Other new regulatory requirements could subject us to additional reporting and disclosure requirements, taxes, and/or restrictions. Regulations under healthcare reform legislation continue to be in flux, resulting in uncertainty surrounding their application and related enforcement, as well as consuming resources necessary to comply.  

Healthcare markets are rapidly changing, as well. For example, our assumptions concerning future per capita expenditures for dental services, including assumptions as to population growth and the demand for preventive and specialty dental services such as periodontic, endodontic and orthodontic procedures, may be mistaken. Fluctuations in demand for infection control products currently used for prevention of the spread of communicable diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and herpes may adversely affect our revenue.  

Failure to comply with existing and future U.S. and foreign laws and regulatory requirements could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business.  

The marketing, distribution and sale of certain products we sell are subject to the requirements of various federal, state and local laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Our failure to comply with applicable laws may subject us to claims, additional liabilities, or enforcement actions by an administrative agency, which could require us to make settlement payments, be subject to civil or criminal penalties (including fines or loss of licenses), or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

In the U.S., we are subject to regulation by the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Department of Transportation. Among the federal laws which impact our business are the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates the advertising, record keeping, labeling, handling, storage and sale of drugs and medical devices we distribute, and which requires us to be registered with the Federal Food and Drug Administration; the Safe Medical Devices Act, which imposes certain reporting requirements on us in the event of an incident involving serious illness, injury or death caused by a medical device we distributed; and the Controlled Substance Act, which regulates the record keeping, handling, storage and sale of certain drugs we sell, and which requires us to be registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration. In addition, the transportation of certain products we distribute that are considered hazardous materials is subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation.  

We are also required to be licensed as a distributor of drugs and medical devices by each state in which we conduct business. In addition, several state Boards of Pharmacy require us to be licensed for the sale of animal health products within their jurisdiction. We are also subject to the requirements of foreign laws and regulations, which impact our operations in those foreign countries where we conduct business.  

Furthermore, as discussed above, the industries in which we operate have recently experienced an increase in new regulations, which makes compliance increasingly difficult. Costs and resources associated with complying with these increasing regulations can be considerable.  

We are exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates.  

Our balance sheet includes certain non-current assets that are sensitive to movements in short-term interest rates. The variable rates are comprised of both LIBOR and commercial paper rates plus a spread and reset on  

29  

Table of Contents 

 certain dates, as set forth in the respective agreements. In addition, our balance sheet includes fixed rate long-term debt, whose fair value could be adversely affected by movements in interest rates. We finance purchases by our customers using finance contracts that are issued at fixed interest rates, and sell these contracts under various funding arrangements that are priced using variable interest rates. Sudden and dramatic changes in the interest rates within relevant markets could adversely affect our results of operations.  

Risks generally associated with our information systems could adversely affect our results of operations.  

We rely on information systems (“IS”) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things:  

   •    maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers;  

   •    receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis;  

   •    manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and  

   •    process payments to suppliers.  

A cyber-attack that bypasses our IS security causing an IS security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IS and/or the loss of business information, which could adversely affect our business. These risks may include, among others, the following:  

   •    future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property;  

   •    operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IS and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and  

   •    negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, suppliers or industry peers.  

Our results of operations could be adversely affected if our IS are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, cyber-attacks or fail for any extended period of time.  

Our governing documents and Minnesota law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our shareholders might consider to be in their best interests.  

Anti-takeover provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws, and Minnesota law could diminish the opportunity for shareholders to participate in acquisition proposals at a price above the then current market price of our common stock. For example, while we have no present plans to issue any preferred stock, our Board of Directors, without further shareholder approval, may issue up to approximately 30 million shares of undesignated preferred stock and fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, which could adversely affect the voting power of our common stock. In addition, our bylaws divide our Board of Directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms. Further, as a Minnesota corporation, we are subject to provisions of the Minnesota Business Corporation Act, or MBCA, regarding “control share acquisitions” and “business combinations.” We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The authority of our Board of Directors to issue undesignated preferred stock and the anti-takeover provisions of the MBCA, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our company not approved by our Board of Directors.  

 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

We have not received any written comments regarding our reports from the staff of the SEC issued 180 days or more preceding the end of the 2012 fiscal year that remain unresolved, nor have we received any written comments regarding our reports from the SEC within the past 180 days.  

30  

Table of Contents 

 Item 2. PROPERTIES