PART I  

ITEM 1. Business.  

Company Overview  

At Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI), we design and make semiconductors that we sell to electronics designers and manufacturers all over the world. We began operations in 1930 and are incorporated in Delaware. We are headquartered in Dallas, Texas, and have design, manufacturing or sales operations in more than 30 countries. We have four segments: Analog, Embedded Processing, Wireless and Other. We expect Analog and Embedded Processing to be our primary growth engines in the years ahead, and we therefore focus our resources on these segments.  

We were the world’s fourth largest semiconductor company in 2008 as measured by revenue, according to preliminary estimates from an external source. Additionally, we sell calculators and related products.  

Financial information with respect to our segments and our operations outside the United States is contained in the note to the financial statements captioned “Segment and geographic area data” on pages 31 and 32 of TI’s 2008 annual report to stockholders. It is incorporated herein by reference to such annual report. 

Product Information  

Semiconductors are electronic components that serve as the building blocks inside modern electronic systems and equipment. Semiconductors come in two basic forms: individual transistors and integrated circuits (generally known as “chips”) that combine different transistors on a single piece of material to form a complete electronic circuit. Our semiconductors are used to accomplish many different things, such as converting and amplifying signals, interfacing with other devices, managing and distributing power, processing data, canceling noise and improving signal resolution. Our portfolio includes products that are integral to almost all electronic equipment.  

We sell two general categories of semiconductor products: custom and standard. A custom product is designed for a specific customer for a specific application, is sold only to that customer and is typically sold directly to the customer. A standard product is designed for use by many customers and/or many applications and is generally sold through both distribution and direct channels. Standard products include both proprietary and commodity products. 

Additional information regarding each segment’s products follows. 

Analog 

Analog semiconductors change real-world signals – such as sound, temperature, pressure or images – by conditioning them, amplifying them and often converting them to a stream of digital data so the signals can be processed by other semiconductors, such as digital signal processors (DSPs). Analog semiconductors are also used to manage power distribution and consumption. Sales from our Analog segment accounted for about 40 percent of our revenue in 2008. The worldwide market for analog semiconductors was about $36 billion in 2008. According to external sources, we have about a 12 percent share in the fragmented analog semiconductor market, which is a leading position. We believe that we are well positioned to increase our share over time.  

During 2008, we discussed our Analog business by reference to high-performance analog and high-volume analog & logic. 

High-performance analog products: These include standard analog semiconductors, such as amplifiers, data converters, low-power radio frequency devices, and interface and power management semiconductors (our standard analog portfolio includes more than 20,000 products), that we market to many different customers (nearly 80,000) who use them in a wide range of products across the industrial, communications, computing and consumer markets. High-performance analog products generally have long life cycles, often 10 to 20 years. 

High-volume analog & logic products: These include two product types. The first, high-volume analog, includes products for specific applications, including custom products for specific customers. The life cycles of our high-volume analog products are generally shorter than those of our high-performance analog products. End markets for high-volume analog products include communications, automotive, computing and many consumer electronics products. The second product type, standard linear and logic, includes commodity products marketed to many different customers for many different applications. 

2 

Beginning with the first quarter of 2009, we will discuss power management semiconductors as a separate category of Analog products, separating it from the high-performance category.  

Embedded Processing  

Our Embedded Processing products include our DSPs (other than DSPs specific to our Wireless segment) and microcontrollers. DSPs perform mathematical computations almost instantaneously to process and improve digital data. Microcontrollers are microprocessors that are designed to control a set of specific tasks for electronic equipment. Sales of Embedded Processing products accounted for about 15 percent of our revenue in 2008. The worldwide market for embedded processors was about $17 billion in 2008. According to external sources, we have about a 10 percent share in this fragmented market, and we believe we are well positioned to increase our share over time. 

An important characteristic of Embedded Processing products is that our customers often invest their own research and development (R&D) to write software that operates on our products. This investment tends to increase the length of our customer relationships because customers prefer to re-use software from one product generation to the next. We make and sell standard, or catalog, Embedded Processing products used in many different applications and custom Embedded Processing products used in specific applications, such as communications infrastructure equipment and automotive. 

Wireless  

Cell phones require a modem or “baseband” to connect to the wireless carrier’s network. Many of today’s advanced cell phones also require an applications processor to run the phone’s software and services, and semiconductors to enable connectivity to Bluetooth® devices, WiFi networks or GPS location services. We design, make and sell products to satisfy each of these requirements. Wireless products are typically sold in high volumes and our Wireless portfolio includes both standard (or merchant) products and custom products. Sales of Wireless products accounted for about 25 percent of our revenue in 2008, and a significant portion of our Wireless sales were to a single customer.  

As wireless communications have proliferated, consumers have demanded capabilities beyond voice. Smartphones (phones that contain email, media, games and computing capability) represent one of the fastest growing wireless markets. These phones tend to include many semiconductor products. Major handset manufacturers are actively pursuing the smartphone market and increasingly focusing their R&D on applications and services. As a result, we believe customer demand for applications processors will grow as handset manufacturers seek to differentiate their products by providing software and a unique user experience. Our OMAPTM product line has a leading position in the applications processor market and is used by most of the top handset manufacturers. 

Our Wireless segment has been shifting focus from baseband chips, a market with shrinking competitive barriers and slowing growth rates, to applications processors, a market we expect will grow faster than the baseband market. Consistent with this shift in market focus, we are concentrating our Wireless investments on our applications processors and connectivity products. We continue to sell custom baseband products but have discontinued further development of merchant baseband products. 

Other  

Our Other segment includes revenue from smaller semiconductor product lines and handheld graphing and scientific calculators, and from royalties received for our patented technology that we license to other electronics companies. The semiconductor products in our Other segment include DLP® products (primarily used to create high-definition images for business and home theater projectors, televisions and movie projectors), reduced-instruction set computing (RISC) microprocessors (designed to provide very fast computing and often implemented in servers) and custom semiconductors known as application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs). This segment accounted for about 20 percent of our revenue in 2008.  

3 

Applications for Our Products  

The table below lists the major end markets that use our products and the approximate percentage of our product revenue that the market represents. The chart also lists the most frequent applications and our products used within these key markets. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

4 

Market Characteristics  

Product cycle  

The global semiconductor market is characterized by constant, though generally incremental, advances in product designs and manufacturing methods. Chip prices and manufacturing costs tend to decline over time as manufacturing methods and product life cycles mature. Typically, new chips are produced in limited quantities at first and then ramp to high-volume production over time. 

Market cycle  

The “semiconductor cycle” is an important concept that refers to the ebb and flow of supply, with relatively stable demand. The semiconductor market historically has been characterized by periods of tight supply caused by strengthening demand and/or insufficient manufacturing capacity, followed by periods of surplus inventory caused by weakening demand and/or excess manufacturing capacity. This cycle is affected by the significant time and money required to build and maintain semiconductor manufacturing facilities.  

Although there are similarities with past cycles, we do not believe the market environment in the second half of 2008 and early 2009 is simply a surplus-driven inventory correction. Instead, we believe it is a broad economic slowdown in which consumer and industrial consumption has dramatically weakened and likely will weaken further.  

Seasonality  

Our revenue and operating results are subject to some seasonal variation. Sales of our semiconductor products are seasonally weaker in the first quarter than in other quarters, particularly for products sold into cell phones and consumer electronics applications that have stronger sales later in the year as manufacturers prepare for the holiday selling season. Calculator revenue is tied to the U.S. back-to-school season and, as a result, is at its highest in the second and third quarters. Royalty revenue is not always uniform or predictable, in part due to the performance of our licensees and in part due to the timing of new license agreements or the expiration and renewal of existing agreements. 

Competitive landscape  

In each segment, we face significant global competition from numerous large and small companies, including both broad-based suppliers and niche suppliers. We believe that competitive performance in the semiconductor market generally depends on several factors, including the breadth of a company’s product line, technological innovation, technical support, customer service, quality, reliability, price and scale. With expertise in both digital signal processing and analog at the system level, we believe we are capable of providing best-in-class products that integrate both technologies onto a single chip. In addition, our ability to deliver integrated solutions and system-level knowledge allows our customers to create more advanced systems and products and bring their products to market sooner. 

The primary competitive factors in the Analog market include design proficiency, a diverse product portfolio to meet wide-ranging customer needs, manufacturing process technologies that provide differentiated levels of performance and manufacturing expertise. Our primary Analog competitors include Analog Devices, Inc.; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG; Intersil Corporation; Linear Technology Corporation; Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.; National Semiconductor Corporation; NXP B.V.; and STMicroelectronics NV.  

The primary competitive factors for our Embedded Processing products are the ability to design and cost-effectively manufacture products, system-level knowledge about targeted end markets, installed base of software, software expertise, applications support and a product’s performance and power characteristics. Primary competitors of our Embedded Processing segment include Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG; NEC Electronics and Renesas Technology Corp.  

The primary competitive factors for our Wireless products are the ability to design and cost-effectively manufacture products, system-level knowledge about targeted end markets, installed base of software, software expertise, applications support and a product’s performance and power characteristics. Primary Wireless competitors include Broadcom Corp.; Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.; Infineon Technologies AG; Marvell Technology Group, Ltd.; QUALCOMM Incorporated and STMicroelectronics NV. 

5 

Manufacturing  

Semiconductor manufacturing begins with the wafer fabrication manufacturing process: a sequence of photo-lithographic and chemical processing steps that fabricate a number of semiconductor devices on a thin silicon wafer. Each device on the wafer is tested and the wafer is cut into pieces called chips. Each chip is assembled into a package that then may be retested. The entire process typically requires between twelve and eighteen weeks and takes place in highly specialized facilities.  

We own and operate semiconductor manufacturing sites in North America, Asia and Europe. These facilities include high-volume wafer fabrication plants and assembly/test sites. Our facilities require substantial investment to construct and are largely fixed-cost assets once in operation. Because we own much of our manufacturing capacity, a significant portion of our operating cost is fixed. In general, these costs do not decline with reductions in customer demand or utilization of capacity and can adversely affect our profit margins as a result. Conversely, as product demand rises and factory utilization increases, the fixed costs are spread over increased output, potentially benefiting our profit margins. 

Most of our Analog semiconductors require a lower level of capital investment in manufacturing and equipment than is needed for equivalent production levels of our Embedded Processing and Wireless semiconductors, which are manufactured using advanced logic wafer manufacturing equipment. While analog chips benefit from unique, proprietary wafer manufacturing processes, these processes can be applied using older, less expensive equipment. In addition, these processes and equipment remain usable for much longer than the manufacturing processes and equipment required for advanced logic wafer manufacturing. 

To supplement our internal advanced logic wafer fabrication capacity, maximize our responsiveness to customer demand and minimize our overall capital expenditures, our wafer manufacturing strategy utilizes the capacity of outside suppliers, commonly known as foundries. Our strategy involves installing internal wafer fabrication capacity to a level we believe will remain fully utilized over the equipment’s useful lifetime and then outsourcing remaining capacity needs to foundries. In 2008, external foundries provided about 50 percent of the fabricated wafers for our advanced logic manufacturing needs, but during the fourth quarter of 2008, we significantly reduced our foundry purchases. We expect the proportion of our advanced logic wafers provided by foundries will increase over time. We expect to maintain sufficient internal wafer fabrication capacity to meet substantially all our analog production needs. 

In addition to using foundries to supplement our wafer fabrication capacity, we selectively use subcontractors to supplement our assembly/test capacity. We generally use subcontractors for assembly/test of products that would be less cost-efficient to complete in-house (e.g., relatively low-volume products that are unlikely to keep internal equipment fully utilized), or in the event demand temporarily exceeds our internal capacity. We believe we often have a cost advantage in maintaining internal assembly/test capacity. Accordingly, we have nearly completed an environmentally efficient assembly/test facility in the Philippines, and the facility is in the initial stages of production.  

This internal/external manufacturing strategy is designed to reduce the level of our required capital expenditures, and thereby reduce our subsequent levels of depreciation. Expected end results include less fluctuation in our profit margins due to changing product demand, and lower cash requirements for expanding and updating our manufacturing capabilities. As our internal manufacturing efforts shift to a higher percentage of analog products, an increasing proportion of our capital expenditures is devoted to assembly/test facilities and equipment. This is primarily due to the lower capital needs of analog wafer manufacturing equipment.  

Inventory  

While our inventory practices differ by product, we generally maintain inventory levels that are consistent with our expectations of customer demand. 

For custom semiconductor products, where the risk of obsolescence is higher, we carry lower levels of inventory when possible. These products have a single customer, are sold in high volumes and have comparatively shorter life cycles. Life cycles of these products are often determined by end-equipment upgrade cycles and can be as short as 12 to 24 months. 

For standard semiconductor products, where the risk of obsolescence is low, we generally carry higher levels of inventory. These products usually have many customers and long life cycles, and are often ordered in small quantities. Standard product inventory is sometimes held in unfinished wafer form, giving us greater flexibility to meet final package and test configurations. 

6 

As a result of the following trends, we now tend to carry relatively higher levels of inventory than in past years: standard products have become a larger part of our portfolio; we have increased consignment programs with our largest customers; and our distributors now carry relatively less inventory on average than in the past. 

We manage calculator inventory consistent with expected seasonality.  

Design Centers  

Our design centers provide design, engineering and product application support as well as after-sales customer service. The design centers are strategically located around the world to take advantage of key technical and engineering talent and proximity to key customers. 

Customers  

Our products are sold to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs), contract manufacturers and distributors. (An OEM designs and sells products under its own brand that it manufactures in-house or has manufactured by others. An ODM designs and manufactures products for other companies, which then sell those products under their own brand.) Our largest single customer in 2008 was an OEM, the Nokia group of companies. Sales to Nokia were about 20 percent of our revenue in 2008, and a majority of this revenue was in our Wireless segment. 

Sales and Distribution  

We market and sell our semiconductor products through a direct sales force, distributors and authorized third-party sales representatives. We have sales or marketing offices in over 30 countries worldwide and have expanded our sales networks in the emerging markets of China, India and Eastern Europe. Distributors located around the world account for about 30 percent of our revenue, and a majority of our revenue from many standard products. Our distributors maintain an inventory of our products and sell directly to a wide range of customers. They also sell products from our competitors. Our distribution network holds a mix of distributor-owned and TI-consigned inventory. Over time, we expect this mix will shift more toward consignment. We sell our calculator products primarily through retailers and instructional dealers. 

Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investments  

From time to time we consider acquisitions and divestitures that may strengthen or better focus our business portfolio. We also make investments directly or indirectly in private companies. Investments are focused primarily on next-generation technologies and markets strategic to us. 

Backlog  

We define backlog as of a particular date as firm purchase orders with a customer-requested delivery date within a specified length of time. As customer requirements and industry conditions change, orders may be, under certain circumstances, subject to cancellation or modification of terms such as pricing, quantity or delivery date. Customer order placement practices continually evolve based on customers’ individual business needs and capabilities, as well as industry supply and capacity considerations. Accordingly, our backlog at any particular date may not be indicative of revenue for any future period. We ship a substantial number of orders in the quarter in which they are received. Our backlog of orders was $0.86 billion at December 31, 2008, and $1.50 billion at December 31, 2007. 

Raw Materials  

We purchase materials, parts and supplies from a number of suppliers. In some cases we purchase such items from sole source suppliers. The materials, parts and supplies essential to our business are generally available at present, and we believe that such materials, parts and supplies will be available in the foreseeable future. 

Intellectual Property  

We own many patents, and have many patent applications pending, in the United States and other countries in fields relating to our business. We have developed a strong, broad-based patent portfolio and continually add patents to that portfolio. We also have agreements with numerous companies involving license rights and anticipate that other license agreements may be negotiated in the future. In general, our license agreements have multi-year terms and may be renewed after renegotiation.  

7 

Our semiconductor patent portfolio is an ongoing contributor to our revenue. We do not consider our business materially dependent upon any one patent or patent license, although taken as a whole, our rights and the products made and sold under patents and patent licenses are important to our business. 

We often participate in industry initiatives to set technical standards. Our competitors may also participate in the same initiatives. Participation in these initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies. 

We own trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business. These trademarks are valuable assets, the most important of which are “Texas Instruments” and our corporate monogram. Other valuable trademarks include OMAPTM and DLP®. 

Research and Development  

Our primary area of R&D investment is Analog and Embedded Processing products. We conduct most of our R&D internally. However, we also closely engage with a wide range of external industry consortia and universities and collaborate with our foundry suppliers on semiconductor manufacturing technology. 

From time to time we may terminate R&D projects before completion or decide not to manufacture and sell a developed product. We do not expect that all of our R&D projects will result in products that are ultimately released for sale, or that our projects will contribute significant revenue until at least a few years following completion. 

Our R&D expense was $1.94 billion in 2008, compared with $2.14 billion in 2007 and $2.20 billion in 2006. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The following is an alphabetical list of the names and ages of the executive officers of the company and the positions or offices with the company presently held by each person named: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The term of office of the above-listed officers is from the date of their election until their successor shall have been elected and qualified. All executive officers of the company have been employees of the company for more than five years. Ms. West and Messrs. Hames, Hubach, Lowe, March and Templeton have served as executive officers of the company for more than five years. Ms. Lovett and Mr. Ritchie became executive officers of the company in 2004. Mr. George and Ms. Whitaker became executive officers of the company in 2006. Messrs. Delagi and Heacock became executive officers of the company in 2007. Messrs. Anderson and Novak became executive officers of the company in 2008. 

8 

Employees 

At December 31, 2008, we had 29,537 employees.  

Available Information 

Our Internet address is www.ti.com. Information on our web site is not a part of this report. We make available, free of charge, through our investor relations web site our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Also available through the TI investor relations web site are reports filed by our directors and executive officers on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports. 

Available on our web site at www.ti.com/corporategovernance are: (i) our Corporate Governance Guidelines; (ii) charters for the Audit, Compensation, and Governance and Stockholder Relations Committees of our board of directors; (iii) our Code of Business Conduct; and (iv) our Code of Ethics for TI Chief Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers. Stockholders may request copies of these documents free of charge by writing to Texas Instruments Incorporated, P.O. Box 660199, MS 8657, Dallas, Texas, 75266-0199, Attention: Investor Relations. 

ITEM 1A. Risk Factors.