Item 1A. Risk Factors  

You should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. These risks have the potential to materially adversely affect MMC’s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

RISKS RELATING TO MMC GENERALLY  

Legal and Regulatory Issues  

We are subject to legal proceedings and other contingencies which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

As more fully described in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report, we are subject to a number of legal proceedings, regulatory actions and other contingencies. An adverse outcome in connection with one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any given quarterly or annual period. In addition, regardless of any eventual monetary costs, these matters could have a material adverse effect on MMC by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to our client or employee relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources.  

We are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from “errors and omissions” claims.   

MMC’s operating companies provide numerous brokerage, consulting, actuarial and other services for clients around the world. As a result of these activities, we are subject to errors and omissions, or “E&O,” claims by clients and third parties who allege that they were damaged as a result of the operating company’s alleged failure to perform its services as expected, such as those claims alleged in separate lawsuits by the Alaska Retirement Management Board and Milwaukee County against Mercer. Certain E&O claims seek damages, including punitive damages, in amounts that could, if awarded, be significant and subject MMC, in addition to potential liability for monetary damages, to reputational harm and diversion of personnel and management resources. As described below, for certain policy years, we have limited third party insurance for E&O matters, including the Alaska Retirement Management Board and Milwaukee County matters.  

MMC has varying levels of third party insurance coverage against E&O claims, depending on the policy year. To the extent that expected losses exceed MMC’s retention in any policy year, MMC records a liability and an asset for the amount that MMC expects to recover under its third-party insurance programs. The policy limits and coverage terms of the third-party insurance vary to some extent by policy year, but MMC is not aware of coverage defenses or other obstacles to coverage that would limit recoveries in years prior to policy year 2001-2002 in a material amount.  

In policy years subsequent to 2001-2002, the availability of third-party insurance has declined significantly, which has caused MMC to assume increasing levels of self-insurance for its potential E&O exposures. MMC utilizes internal actuarial and other estimates, and case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, to establish loss reserves, in accordance with SFAS No. 5 (“Accounting for Contingencies”), to provide for its loss retention. These reserves are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. Nevertheless, given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on MMC’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period.  

Our compliance systems and controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable U.S. federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.  

Our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States and its various states, the European Union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we   

14  

Table of Contents 

 operate. For example, our insurance and reinsurance services activities, as well as certain of our consulting and related activities, in the United Kingdom are under the jurisdiction of the Financial Services Authority. Compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that are applicable to our international operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include import and export requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials. While we attempt to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, our consultants or our contractors are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations at all times or that we will be able to comply with any future laws, regulations or interpretations of these laws and regulations. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including those referred to above, we may be subject to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license or approval, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business or redress to clients. The cost of compliance or the consequences of non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, these matters could have a material adverse effect on MMC by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage or harm to our client or employee relationships.  

In most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. Such authorities may require MMC to incur substantial increases in costs in order to comply with such laws and regulations. In some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry’s interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. In the event those interpretations eventually prove different from those of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. Moreover, the laws and regulations to which we are subject may conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

Finally, government involvement in the insurance or reinsurance markets could displace insurance or reinsurance currently available from the private market and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

Improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation.  

One of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients’ confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their employees and retirement and other benefit plan participants. We maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. Nonetheless, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.  

Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace.  

International Operations  

We are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations.  

We do business worldwide. In 2008, 54 percent of MMC’s total operating segment revenue was generated from operations outside the United States, and over one-half of our employees are located abroad. We expect to expand our non-U.S. operations further.  

15  

Table of Contents 

The geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market and reputational risks. These include, among others, risks relating to:  

   –    economic and political conditions in foreign countries, including the recent disruption in the global financial markets;  

   –    international hostilities, terrorist activities, natural disasters and infrastructure disruptions;  

   –    local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose;  

   –    potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or other U.S. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad;  

   –    limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries;  

   –    withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries;  

   –    potential transfer pricing-related tax exposures that may result from the allocation of U.S.-based costs that benefit our non-U.S. businesses;  

   –    the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, particularly in light of the increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject;  

   –    engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of MMC;  

   –    potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and  

   –    potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with U.S. or other sources of law.  

Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.  

Should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities, and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. In such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. Nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel.  

Our operations, particularly within our Consulting and Risk Consulting and Technology segments, are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. We could potentially lose client data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario.  

We regularly assess and take steps to improve upon our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. However, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability.  

16  

Table of Contents 

Competitive Risks  

Each of MMC’s businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer.  

As a global professional services firm, MMC experiences acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, and our pricing relative to our competitors. If we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business and results of operations will suffer.  

In our Risk and Insurance Services segment, we compete intensely against two other major global brokerage firms, Aon and Willis, for both client business and employee talent. We also face competition from a wide range of other insurance brokerage firms that operate on a regional, national or local scale; many of these firms, unlike Marsh, Aon and Willis, have not stopped accepting contingent commissions, and thus may have greater pricing flexibility than we do. We compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. The above competition is intensified by an industry trend toward a “syndicated” or “distributed” approach to the purchase of insurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client’s account.  

In our Consulting and Risk Consulting and Technology segments, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. Kroll also competes with law firms for certain of its services.  

The loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business.  

Across all of our businesses, our personnel are crucial to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. It is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. We face numerous challenges in this regard, including:  

   –    the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses;  

   –    the general mobility of professionals in our businesses; and  

   –    the difficulties we may face in offering compensation of a type and amount (including equity-based compensation) sufficient to attract, motivate and retain valuable employees.  

Losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services.  

Consolidation in the industries that we serve could adversely affect our business.  

Particularly in the current economic environment, companies in the industries that we serve may seek to achieve economies of scale and other synergies by combining with or acquiring other companies. If two or more of our current clients merge or consolidate and combine their operations, it may decrease the amount of work that we perform for these clients. If one of our current clients merges or consolidates with a company that relies on another provider for its services, we may lose work from that client or lose the opportunity to gain additional work. The increased market power of larger companies could also increase pricing and competitive pressures on us. Any of these possible results of industry consolidation could adversely affect our business. Guy Carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the marketplace.  

17  

Table of Contents 

Our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

To remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. For example, Guy Carpenter’s risk-modeling services are increasingly dependent on implementing advanced software and data-compilation tools; Kroll’s e-discovery business depends on advanced search technology and computerized document processing; and Mercer’s ability to price its outsourcing services competitively is highly dependent on the efficient and cost effective use of technology. If we do not make the correct technology choices or investments, or if our choices or investments are insufficiently prompt or cost-effective, our business and results of operations could suffer.  

Financial Risks  

Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our clients’ businesses and levels of business activity.  

Global economic and political conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States and foreign governments. These economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions, and financial services entities in particular. The current global economic crisis is having a significant effect on our Consulting and Risk Consulting and Technology segments in particular. Many of our clients have been reducing expenses, including amounts they spend on consulting services. If these economic conditions persist or deteriorate, they could potentially have a significant impact on our operations.  

These economic conditions may reduce demand for our services or depress pricing of those services, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Should it become necessary for us to further restructure our business, including reducing our work force, as a result of these market conditions or other factors that reduce the demand for our products and services, our ability to execute our business strategy could be adversely affected.  

Financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities.  

Our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, are subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected.  

Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business.  

We are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. Our U.S. operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in U.S. dollars. In certain jurisdictions (primarily the United Kingdom), however, our Risk and Insurance Services operations generate revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in local currency. Due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, we are subject to economic exposure as well as currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations. Exchange rate risk could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Changes in interest rates and increased counterparty risk could reduce the value of our investment portfolio and adversely affect our financial condition or results.  

The recent failures, bankruptcies, rescues and distressed acquisitions of previously highly rated financial institutions indicate a possibly dramatic realignment of companies in the financial services sector and reflect the market’s lack of a clear understanding of the financial health of financial institutions. Many widely-held investments previously rated investment grade have declined in value precipitously and unexpectedly in recent months, resulting in substantial trading and investment losses for corporate and other investors. In order to avoid these risks, investors have favored securities issued, guaranteed or supported by the U.S. or international governments, which has resulted in reduced yields on these and other investments considered to be lower risk. Although we generally employ a conservative investment strategy with respect to our cash investments, including those held in a fiduciary capacity, we may incur investment losses as a result of these unusual and unpredictable market developments and we may experience reduced investment earnings if the yields on investments deemed to be low risk remain low or decline further in this time of economic uncertainty.  

Credit rating downgrades would increase our financing costs and could subject us to operational risk.  

Both Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s downgraded MMC’s senior debt credit rating in late 2004 and S&P announced a further downgrade in December 2007. Currently, MMC’s senior debt is rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P. These ratings are the next-to-lowest investment grade rating for Moody’s, and the lowest investment-grade rating for S&P.  

If we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), any further credit rating downgrade would increase our financing costs, and could limit our access to financing sources. Further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures.  

Our pension obligations may cause MMC’s earnings and cash flows to fluctuate.  

MMC has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $8.5 billion at December 31, 2008. The magnitude of our worldwide pension plans means that our earnings are comparatively sensitive to factors such as equity and bond market returns, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation and mortality assumptions. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings from year to year and may result in increased levels of contributions to our pension plans.  

Acquisitions and Dispositions  

We face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses.  

We have a history of making acquisitions, including our $1.9 billion acquisition of Kroll in July 2004 and a total of 44 acquisitions in the period 2005-2008 for aggregate purchase consideration of $593 million. We have also exited various businesses, including the sale of Putnam in August 2007 and the divestiture of three separate restructuring businesses – one in the U.S. and two in the U.K. – in 2008. We expect that targeted acquisitions and dispositions will continue to be part of our business strategy. Our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify appropriate acquisition and disposition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue.  

While we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. Acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. In addition, if the operating performance of an acquired business deteriorates significantly, we may need to write down the value of the goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. Given the significant size of   

19  

Table of Contents 

 MMC’s goodwill and intangible assets, a write-down of this sort could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. As of December 31, 2008, MMC’s consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.2 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 47 percent of MMC’s total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: Risk and Insurance Services, $3.7 billion; Consulting, $2 billion; and Risk Consulting and Technology, $1.1 billion.  

When we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. For example, as described in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to Putnam.  

RISKS RELATING TO OUR RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES SEGMENT  

Our Risk and Insurance Services segment, conducted through Marsh and Guy Carpenter, represented 47 percent of MMC’s total operating segment revenue in 2008. Our business in this segment is subject to particular risks.  

Volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability.  

A significant portion of our Risk and Insurance Services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. We have no control over premium rates, and our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. The potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets.  

In addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. This trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to “self-insure;” the use of so-called “captive” insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs.  

We may not be as successful as we hope in implementing Marsh’s evolving business model and otherwise coping with changing modes of compensation in the insurance brokerage industry.  

In late 2004, Marsh made significant changes to its business model, including the elimination of market service/contingent commission agreements with insurers. The elimination of market service revenue has negatively affected our financial results. In 2004, we recognized market service revenue of $516 million, relating to insurance placements made before October 1, 2004. By contrast, in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively, we recognized $114 million, $43 million, $3 million and $1.7 million of market service revenue relating to placements made before October 1, 2004. In addition to lost revenue, Marsh has and will likely continue to incur significant costs to ensure compliance with this business model and to provide disclosure relating thereto.  

Although other large insurance brokers have similarly terminated the use of contingent commission agreements, many specialist, regional and local insurance brokers have not. To date, there has been no regulatory action to end the use of contingent commission arrangements throughout the brokerage industry, and it is therefore unclear to what extent many of our competitors will continue to accept contingent commission revenue. It is possible that Marsh will continue indefinitely to suffer competitive disadvantage compared to the brokers that have not given up the use of contingent commission arrangements. If that occurs, Marsh would continue to face pressure on its revenues, operating margin and market share.  

20  

Table of Contents 

In addition to the possibility of continued competitive disadvantage as described above, Marsh faces risks relating to the implementation of its new business model. Marsh is currently seeking to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that are disclosed to its clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services beyond traditional brokerage activities. Marsh’s current business and compensation model continues to evolve and in some respects remains untested, including Marsh’s creation of placement hubs and the launch of Marsh & McLennan Agency for the small and emerging growth sector. We cannot be certain that it will generate the profitable revenue growth we are targeting. The inability to derive adequate revenues from Marsh’s current business and compensation model may significantly impede improvement in our operating results and profitability.  

Results in our Risk and Insurance Services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity.  

Demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. This dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by Marsh and Guy Carpenter. To the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance and reinsurance coverage, as applicable, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue; and may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. Moreover, a growing number of insolvencies and combinations associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies and combinations in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. Guy Carpenter is especially susceptible to this risk given the limited number of insurance company clients and reinsurers in the market place.  

RISKS RELATING TO OUR CONSULTING AND RISK CONSULTING AND TECHNOLOGY SEGMENTS  

Our Consulting segment, conducted through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group, represented 45 percent of our total operating segment revenue in 2008. Our Risk Consulting and Technology segment, conducted through Kroll, represented 9 percent of our total operating segment revenue in 2008. Our businesses in these two segments are subject to particular risks.  

Demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client’s or an industry’s financial condition, or changes in government regulation.  

Our Consulting and Risk Consulting and Technology segments have historically achieved significant annual revenue growth. Despite this history, however, the current global economic conditions have resulted in negative impacts on businesses and financial institutions, and financial services entities in particular. Many of our clients, especially in the financial services industry, have been reducing expenses, including amounts spent on consulting services. The evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability and reduce demand for our services. If the economy or markets in which we operate experience continued weakness at current levels or deteriorate further, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.  

In addition, demand for many of Mercer’s benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients’ needs for benefits-related services. For example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of Mercer’s services.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants.  

The profitability of our Consulting and Risk Consulting and Technology businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants’ working hours devoted to billable activities). Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including:  

   –    our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities;  

   –    our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature;  

   –    our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces;  

   –    our ability to manage attrition;  

   –    unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements;  

   –    the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted;  

   –    our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities; and  

   –    general economic conditions.  

The factors listed above, and therefore also our utilization rates for service personnel, have been adversely affected by recent macroeconomic conditions. If the utilization rate for our consulting professionals continues to decline, our profit margin and profitability would suffer.  

In addition, the profitability of our Consulting and Risk Consulting and Technology businesses depends on the prices we are able to charge for our services. Our pricing power is affected by a number of factors, including:  

   –    clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services;  

   –    market demand for the services we provide;  

   –    our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors;  

   –    the pricing policies of our competitors;  

   –    changes in the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and  

   –    general economic conditions.  

Our pricing has also been adversely affected by the current economic crisis. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our consultants, our profit margin and profitability could suffer.  

Our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly.  

Quarterly variations in revenues and operating results at Mercer, Oliver Wyman Group and Kroll may occur due to several factors. These include:  

   –    the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter;  

   –    the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees;  

   –    the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress;  

22  

Table of Contents 

   –    fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients’ ability to terminate engagements without penalty;  

   –    seasonality at Mercer due to the impact of regulatory deadlines and other timing factors to which our clients are subject;  

   –    the success of our strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments;  

   –    macroeconomic factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and global securities markets; and  

   –    general economic conditions, since results of operations in our Consulting and Risk Consulting and Technology businesses are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve.  

A significant portion of total operating expenses at Mercer, Oliver Wyman Group and Kroll is relatively fixed. Therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses.  

If we are unable to collect our receivables or unbilled services, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected.  

Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, and as a result could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. The increasing number of insolvencies in the current economic environment and the numerous bankruptcy laws to which they are subject could also adversely affect our ability to collect receivables or unbilled services. Timely collection of client balances depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected.  

Acceleration of the shift by employers from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans could adversely affect Mercer’s operating results.  

Mercer currently provides clients with actuarial and consulting services relating to both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Defined benefit pension plans generally require more services than defined contribution plans because defined benefit plans typically involve large asset pools, complex calculations to determine employer costs, funding requirements and sophisticated analysis to match liabilities and assets over long periods of time. Recent regulatory initiatives in the United States and certain European countries may result in companies either discontinuing or curtailing defined benefit programs in favor of defined contribution plans. If organizations shift to defined contribution plans more rapidly than we anticipate and we do not successfully adjust our service offerings to take account of that change, Mercer’s operating results could be adversely affected.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

There are no unresolved comments to be reported pursuant to Item 1B.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Item 2. Properties.