Item 7A —    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    

 Financial Risk Management  

 We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In order to manage the risk arising from these exposures, we enter into a variety of interest rate and foreign currency derivatives. We do not hold financial or derivative instruments for trading purposes.  

 A discussion of our accounting policies for financial and derivative instruments is included in Note 2 — Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and further disclosure is provided in Note 25 — Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities.  

 Foreign Exchange Risk Management  

 Because of the large number of countries and currencies we operate in, movements in currency exchange rates may affect our results.  

 We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. Outside the United States, we predominantly generate revenues and expenses in the local currency with the exception of our London market operations which earns revenues in several currencies but incurs expenses predominantly in pounds sterling.  

 The table below gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2011.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our principal exposures to foreign exchange risk arise from:  

  •   our London market operations; and   

  •   translation.    

 London market operations  

 In our London market operations, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, principally US dollars, pounds sterling, Euros and Japanese yen, but incur expenses almost entirely in pounds sterling.  

 We hedge this risk as follows:  

  •   to the extent that forecast pound sterling expenses exceed pound sterling revenues, we limit our exposure to this exchange rate risk by the use of forward contracts matched to specific, clearly identified cash outflows arising in the ordinary course of business; and   

  •   to the extent our London market operations earn significant revenues in Euros and Japanese yen, we limit our exposure to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and these currencies by the use of forward contracts matched to a percentage of forecast cash inflows in specific currencies and periods.     

 62    
 Market risk   

 In addition, we are also exposed to foreign exchange risk on any net sterling asset or liability position in our London market operations.  

 However, where the foreign exchange risk relates to any sterling pension assets benefit or liability for pensions benefit, we do not hedge the risk. Consequently, if our London market operations have a significant pension asset or liability, we may be exposed to accounting gains and losses if the US dollar and pounds sterling exchange rate changes. We do, however, hedge the pounds sterling contributions into the pension plan.  

 Translation risk  

 Outside our US and London market operations, we predominantly earn revenues and incur expenses in the local currency. When we translate the results and net assets of these operations into US dollars for reporting purposes, movements in exchange rates will affect reported results and net assets. For example, if the US dollar strengthens against the euro, the reported results of our Eurozone operations in US dollar terms will be lower.  

 We do not hedge translation risk.  

 The table below provides information about our foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which are sensitive to exchange rate risk. The table summarizes the US dollar equivalent amounts of each currency bought and sold forward and the weighted average contractual exchange rates. All forward exchange contracts mature within three years.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (i)   Represents the difference between the contract amount and the cash flow in US dollars which would have been receivable had the foreign currency forward exchange contracts been entered into on December 31, 2011 or 2010 at the forward exchange rates prevailing at that date.     

 63    
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 Income earned within foreign subsidiaries outside of the UK is generally offset by expenses in the same local currency but the Company does have exposure to foreign exchange movements on the net income of these entities. The Company does not hedge net income earned within foreign subsidiaries outside of the UK.  

 Interest rate risk management  

 Our operations are financed principally by $2,050 million fixed rate senior notes issued by the Group and $300 million under a new 5-year term loan facility. Of the fixed rate senior notes, $350 million are due 2015, $300 million are due 2016, $600 million are due 2017, $300 million are due 2019, and $500 million are due 2021. The 5-year term loan facility is repayable in quarterly installments and a final repayment of $225 million is due in the forth quarter of 2016. As of December 31, 2011 we had access to $520 million under revolving credit facilities and no drawings had been made under those facilities. The interest rate applicable to the bank borrowing is variable according to the period of each individual drawdown.  

 We are also subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on our investing activities where our primary interest rate risk arises from changes in short-term interest rates in both US dollars and pounds sterling.  

 As a result of our operating activities, we receive cash for premiums and claims which we deposit in short-term investments denominated in US dollars and other currencies. We earn interest on these funds, which is included in our consolidated financial statements as investment income. These funds are regulated in terms of access and the instruments in which it may be invested, most of which are short-term in maturity. In order to manage interest rate risk arising from these financial assets, we enter into interest rate swaps to receive a fixed rate of interest and pay a variable rate of interest in the various currencies related to the short-term investments. The use of interest rate contracts essentially converts groups of short-term variable rate investments to fixed rates. However, in the fourth quarter of 2011, we stopped renewing hedged positions on their maturity given the current flat yield curve environment.  

 During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company entered into a series of interest rate swaps for a total notional amount of $350 million to receive a fixed rate and pay a variable rate on a semi-annual basis, with a maturity date of July 15, 2015. The Company has designated and accounts for these instruments as fair value hedges against its $350 million 5.625% senior notes due 2015. The fair values of the interest rate swaps are included within other assets or other liabilities and the fair value of the hedged element of the senior notes is included within the principal amount of the debt.  

 The table below provides information about our derivative instruments and other financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional principal amounts and average interest rates analyzed by expected maturity dates. Notional principal amounts are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts. The duration of interest rate swaps varies between one and five years, with re-fixing periods of three to six months. Average fixed and variable rates are, respectively, the weighted-average actual and market rates for the interest hedges in place. Market rates are the rates prevailing at December 31, 2011 or 2010, as appropriate.  

 64    
 Market risk   

   [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (i)   Represents the net present value of the expected cash flows discounted at current market rates of interest or quoted market rates as appropriate.     

 65    
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 Liquidity Risk  

 Our objective is to ensure we have the ability to generate sufficient cash either from internal or external sources, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to meet our commitments as they fall due. Our management of liquidity risk is embedded within our overall risk management framework. Scenario analysis is continually undertaken to ensure that our resources can meet our liquidity requirements. These resources are supplemented by access to $520 million under two revolving credit facilities. We undertake short-term foreign exchange swaps for liquidity purposes.  

 See ‘Liquidity’ section under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”.   

 66    

 Financial statements   

  Item 8 —    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data