Item 1A—Risk Factors   

 Risks Relating to our Business and the Insurance Industry  

 This section describes material risks affecting the Group’s business. These risks could materially affect the Group’s business, its revenues, operating income, net income, net assets, liquidity and capital resources and ability to achieve its financial targets and, accordingly should be read in conjunction with any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

 Competitive Risks  

 Worldwide economic conditions, including those associated with the current Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.  

 Our business and operating results are materially affected by worldwide economic conditions. Current global economic conditions, including those associated with the current Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, coupled with declining customer and business confidence, increasing energy prices, and other challenges, may have a significant negative impact on the buying behavior of some of our clients as their businesses suffer from these conditions. For example, our employee benefits practice may be adversely affected as businesses continue to downsize during this period of economic turmoil and our construction business may be adversely affected by the lack of new construction. Our North American and UK and Irish retail operations have been particularly impacted by the weakened economic climate and continued soft market from 2009 through 2011 with no material improvement in rates across most sectors. The global economic downturn is negatively affecting some of the international economies that have supported the strong growth in our International operations.  

 A growing number of insolvencies associated with an economic downturn could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business. While it is difficult to predict consequences of any further deterioration in global economic conditions on our business, any significant reduction or delay by our clients in purchasing insurance or making payment of premiums could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the potential for a significant insurer to fail, be downgraded or withdraw from writing certain lines of insurance coverages that we offer our clients could negatively impact overall capacity in the industry, which could then reduce the placement of certain lines and types of insurance and reduce our revenues and profitability. The potential for an insurer to fail or be downgraded could also result in errors and omissions claims by clients.  

 The credit and economic conditions within certain European Union countries, in particular, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain, have continued to deteriorate and have contributed to the instability in the global credit and financial markets. While the outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it is possible that such events could have a negative effect on the global economy as a whole, and our business, operating results and financial condition. If the European debt crisis continues or further deteriorates, there will likely be a negative effect on our European business (which constitutes approximately 40 percent of our business in terms of revenue), as well as the businesses of our European clients. If the euro dissolved entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. A significant devaluation of the euro would cause the value of our financial assets that are denominated in Euros to be significantly reduced. Any of these conditions could ultimately harm our overall business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.  

 In light of the current global economic uncertainty, we strive to vigorously manage our cost base in order to fund further growth initiatives. While we completed an operational review and commenced certain revenue generating initiatives in 2011 (such as Sales 2.0, WillPlace and Global Solutions), we cannot be certain whether we will be able to realize benefits from these initiatives or any new initiatives that we may implement.   

 14    
 Risk factors   

 We do not control the premiums on which our commissions are based, and volatility or declines in premiums may seriously undermine our profitability.  

 We derive most of our revenues from commissions and fees for brokerage and consulting services. We do not determine insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Premiums are cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. For a three-year period in early 2000s, we benefitted from a ‘hard’ market with premium rates stable or increasing. Since that time, we saw a rapid transition from a hard market to a ‘soft’ market, with premium rates falling in most markets which impacted our commission revenues and operating margin. In 2009, the stabilization of rates in the reinsurance market and some specialty markets was offset by the continuing soft market in other sectors and the adverse impact of the weakened economic environment across the globe. Our North American and UK and Irish retail operations have been particularly impacted by the weakened economic climate and continued soft market from 2009 through 2011 with no material improvement in rates across most sectors. This resulted in declines in 2009 revenues in these operations with a modest improvement in 2010 followed by declines in 2011, particularly amongst our smaller clients who have been especially vulnerable to the economic downturn.  

 In addition, as traditional risk-bearing insurance carriers continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to non-affiliated agents or brokers such as ourselves, those insurance carriers may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to those insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly undermine our profitability.  

 Competition in our industry is intense, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may suffer lower revenue, reduced operating margins and lose market share which could materially and adversely affect our business.  

 We face competition in all fields in which we operate, based on global capability, product breadth, innovation, quality of service and price. We compete with Marsh & McLennan and Aon, the two other providers of global risk management services, as well as with numerous specialist, regional and local firms. Competition for business is intense in all of our business lines and in every insurance market, and the other two providers of global risk management services have substantially greater market share than we do. Competition on premium rates has also exacerbated the pressures caused by a continuing reduction in demand in some classes of business. For example, rather than purchase additional insurance through brokers, many insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of their risk portfolios than previously. Industrial and commercial companies increasingly rely upon their own subsidiary insurance companies, known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their risks, rather than buy insurance. Additional competitive pressures arise from the entry of new market participants, such as banks, accounting firms and insurance carriers themselves, offering risk management or transfer services.  

 In 2005, we, along with Marsh & McLennan and Aon, agreed with New York State and other regulators through an Assurance of Discontinuance, to implement certain business reforms which included codification of our October 2004 voluntary termination of contingent commission arrangements with insurers. Most other special, regional, and local insurance brokers, however, continued to accept contingent compensation and did not disclose the compensation received in connection with providing policy placement services to its customers. In February 2010, we entered into an Amended and Restated Assurance of Discontinuance with the Attorney General of the State of New York and the Amended and Restated Stipulation with the Superintendent of Insurance of the State of New York which ended many of the requirements previously imposed upon us. The new agreement no longer limited the type of compensation we could receive and simplified our compensation disclosure requirements.  

 Following the introduction of health care reform legislation in 2010, some major health insurance carriers in North America began to change their compensation practices in particular lines of business in certain locations. In response to market pressures those changes caused, we announced in July 2011 that in order to remain competitive, we would begin accepting standard compensation based on volume, but would continue to resist traditional contingent commissions and bonus payments because, while legal, we believe these forms of compensation create conflicts with our clients. After several months of review under changing market conditions, we have concluded that we cannot be fully competitive on Employee Benefits business if we continue to refuse these legal forms of compensation. Consequently, we will begin to accept all forms of compensation from Employee Benefits providers effective April 1, 2012. While accepting contingent compensation is legal, and while we will only accept them in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and    

 15    
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 consistent with ethical business practices, in the past it has been the subject of regulatory action and civil litigation and we cannot predict whether our position will cause regulatory or other scrutiny.  

 We will continue to refuse to accept contingent commissions from carriers in the non-Employee Benefit areas of our retail brokerage business unless similar external factors such as legislative change make our position untenable. However, we do not believe such a change is likely. To our knowledge, we are the only insurance broker that takes this stance. We seek to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that we disclose to our clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services beyond traditional brokerage activities. Although we continue to believe in the success of our strategy, we cannot be certain that such steps will help us to continue to generate profitable organic revenue growth. If we are unable to compete effectively against our competitors who are accepting or may accept contingent commissions, we may suffer lower revenue, reduced operating margins, and loss of market share which could materially and adversely affect our business.  

 Dependence on Key Personnel — The loss of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or a number of our senior management or a significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives.  

 The loss of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, a number of our senior management or a significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth, marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not only on the ability and experience of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Joseph J. Plumeri and other members of our senior management, but also on the individual brokers and teams that service our clients and maintain client relationships. The insurance and reinsurance brokerage industry has in the past experienced intense competition for the services of leading individual brokers and brokerage teams, and we have lost key individuals and teams to competitors. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled and qualified personnel and to expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not continue to be successful in doing so because the competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense.  

 Legal and Regulatory Risks  

 Our compliance systems and controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all applicable federal and state or foreign laws and regulations, and actions by regulatory authorities or changes in applicable laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.  

 Our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States, the United Kingdom and the European Union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we operate. Indeed, over the last few years, there has been a general increase in focus and developments in these laws and regulations. Compliance with laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations is complex and may increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include insurance industry regulations, economic and trade sanctions and laws against financial crimes such as money laundering, bribery or other corruption, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In most jurisdictions, governmental and regulatory authorities have the ability to interpret and amend these laws and regulations and impose penalties for non-compliance, including sanctions, civil remedies, fines, injunctions, revocation of licenses or approvals, suspension of individuals, limitations on business activities or redress to clients.  

 Given the increased interest expressed by US and UK regulators in the effectiveness of compliance controls relating to financial crime in our market sector in particular, we began a voluntary internal review of our policies and controls five years ago. This review includes analysis and advice from external experts on best practices, review of public regulatory decisions, and discussions with government regulators in the US and UK. In addition, the UK FSA conducted an investigation of Willis Limited’s, our UK brokerage subsidiary, compliance systems and controls between 2005 and 2009. On July 21, 2011, we and the FSA announced a settlement under which the FSA concluded its investigation by assessing a £7 million ($11 million) fine on Willis Limited for lapses in its implementation and documentation of its controls to counter the risks of improper payments being made to non-FSA authorized overseas third parties engaged to help win business, particularly in high risk jurisdictions.   

 16    
 Risk factors   

 As a result of the FSA settlement, we are conducting a further internal review of all payments made between 2005 and 2009. We also continue to fully cooperate with our US regulators, however we are unable to predict at this time when our discussions with them will be concluded. We do not believe that this further internal review or our discussions with the US regulators will result in any material fines or sanctions, but there can be no assurance that any resolution will not have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business in certain jurisdictions. While we believe that our current systems and controls are adequate and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, we cannot assure that such systems and controls will prevent any violations of applicable laws and regulations.  

 Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially adversely affected by actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings.  

 We are subject to various actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. Because we often assist our clients with matters, including the placement of insurance coverage and the handling of related claims, involving substantial amounts of money, errors and omissions claims against us may arise which allege our potential liability for all or part of the amounts in question.  

 Claimants can seek large damage awards and these claims can involve potentially significant defense costs. Such claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include allegations of damages for our employees or sub-agents improperly failing to place coverage or notify claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. Errors and omissions claims, lawsuits and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business are covered in part by professional indemnity or other appropriate insurance. The terms of this insurance vary by policy year and self-insured risks have increased significantly in recent years. In respect of self-insured risks, we have established provisions against these items which we believe to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to developments. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Our ability to obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles we desire in the future may be adversely impacted by general developments in the market for such insurance or our own claims experience.  

 We are also subject to actual and potential claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings outside of errors and omissions claims. An example of material claims for which we are subject that are outside of the error and omissions claims context relate to those arising out of the collapse of The Stanford Financial Group, for which we acted as brokers of record on certain lines of insurance.  

 The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be ascertained and liabilities in indeterminate amounts may be imposed on us. It is thus possible that future results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. In addition, these matters continue to divert management and personnel resources away from operating our business. Even if we do not experience significant monetary costs, there may also be adverse publicity associated with these matters that could result in reputational harm to the insurance brokerage industry in general or to us in particular that may adversely affect our business, client or employee relationships.  

 Interruption to or loss of our information processing capabilities or failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our information processing systems or data security breaches could cause material financial loss, loss of human resources, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability.  

 Our business depends significantly on effective information systems. Our capacity to service our clients relies on effective storage, retrieval, processing and management of information. Our information systems also rely on the commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and to develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology or evolving industry and regulatory standards.   

 17    
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 Computer viruses, hackers and other external hazards could expose our data systems to security breaches. These increased risks, and expanding regulatory requirements regarding data security, could expose us to data loss, monetary and reputational damages and significant increases in compliance costs.  

 If the information we rely on to run our business were found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain effective and efficient systems (including through a telecommunications failure, failure to replace or update redundant or obsolete computer applications or software systems or if we experience other disruptions), this could result in material financial loss, regulatory action, reputational harm or legal liability.  

 Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other significant disruption to business continuity could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  

 Our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected, even in the short-term, by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption caused by restricted physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, or outages to electrical, communications or other services used by our company, our employees or third parties with whom we conduct business. Although we have certain disaster recovery procedures in place and insurance to protect against such contingencies, such procedures may not be effective and any insurance or recovery procedures may not continue to be available at reasonable prices and may not address all such losses or compensate us for the possible loss of clients occurring during any period that we are unable to provide services. Our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other significant disruption to business continuity could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  

 Improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation.  

 One of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients’ confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their employees. We maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information in our database. However, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. Our technology may fail to adequately secure the private information we maintain in our databases and protect it from theft, computer viruses, hackers or inadvertent loss. In such circumstances, we may be held liable to our clients, which could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Further database privacy, identity theft, and related computer and internet issues are matters of growing public concern and are subject to frequently changing rules and regulations. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace.  

 Financial Risks  

 Our outstanding debt could adversely affect our cash flows and financial flexibility.  

 We had total consolidated debt outstanding of approximately $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2011 and our 2011 interest expense was $156 million. Although management believes that our cash flows will be sufficient to service this debt, there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this debt could adversely affect our cash flows and this level of indebtedness may:  

  •   require us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, to pursue other acquisitions or investments in new technologies, to pay dividends and for general corporate purposes;   

  •   increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including if we borrow at variable interest rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates generally;   

  •   limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes or challenges relating to our business and industry; and     

 18    
 Risk factors   

  •   put us at a competitive disadvantage against competitors who have less indebtedness or are in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources.    

 The terms of our current financings also include certain limitations. For example, the agreements relating to the debt arrangements and credit facilities contain numerous operating and financial covenants, including requirements to maintain minimum ratios of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated cash interest expense and maximum levels of consolidated funded indebtedness in relation to consolidated EBITDA, in each case subject to certain adjustments.  

 A failure to comply with the restrictions under our credit facilities and outstanding notes could result in a default under the financing obligations or could require us to obtain waivers from our lenders for failure to comply with these restrictions. The occurrence of a default that remains uncured or the inability to secure a necessary consent or waiver could cause our obligations with respect to our debt to be accelerated and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

 Our pension liabilities may increase which could require us to make additional cash contributions to our pension plans reducing the cash available for other uses.  

 We have two principal defined benefit plans: one in the United Kingdom and the other in the United States, and in addition, we have several smaller defined benefit pension plans in certain other countries in which we operate. Cash contributions of approximately $142 million will be required in 2012 for these pension plans, although we may elect to contribute more. Total cash contributions to these defined benefit pension plans in 2011 were $135 million. Future estimates are based on certain assumptions, including discount rates, interest rates, mortality, fair value of assets and expected return on plan assets.  

 In early 2012 we provisionally agreed a revised funding strategy with the UK plan’s trustee. Whilst the proposed new funding strategy has not been definitively agreed at the date of this report, we expect this to occur by the end of March 2012, and we expect the cash contributions to the scheme in 2012 to be approximately equal to those in 2011.  

 We have taken actions to manage our pension liabilities, including closing our UK and US plans to new participants and restricting final pensionable salaries. Future benefit accruals in the US pension plan were also stopped, or frozen, on May 15, 2009. Nevertheless, the determination of pension expense and pension funding is based on a variety of rules and regulations. Changes in these rules and regulations could impact the calculation of pension plan liabilities and the valuation of pension plan assets. They may also result in higher pension costs, additional financial statement disclosure, and accelerate and increase the need to fully fund our pension plans through increased cash contributions. Further, a significant decline in the value of investments that fund our pension plan, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in our liabilities, may significantly alter the values and actuarial assumptions used to calculate our future pension expense and we could be required to fund our plan with significant additional amounts of cash. In addition to the critical assumptions described above, our plans use certain assumptions about the life expectancy of plan participants and surviving spouses. Periodic revision of those assumptions can materially change the present value of future benefits and therefore the funded status of the plans and the resulting periodic pension expense. Changes in our pension benefit obligations, the related net periodic costs or credits, and the required level of future cash contributions, may occur in the future due to any variance of actual results from our assumptions and changes in the number of participating employees. The need to make additional cash contributions may reduce the Company’s financial flexibility and increase liquidity risk by reducing the cash available to meet our other obligations, including the payment obligations under our credit facilities and other long-term debt, or other needs of our business.  

 We could incur substantial losses, including with respect to our own cash and fiduciary cash held on behalf of insurance companies and clients, if one of the financial institutions we use in our operations failed.  

 The deterioration of the global credit and financial markets has created challenging conditions for financial institutions, including depositories. As the fallout from the credit crisis persists, the financial strength of these institutions may continue to decline. We maintain significant cash balances at various US depository institutions that are significantly in excess of the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. We also maintain significant cash balances in    

 19    
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 foreign financial institutions. A significant portion of this fiduciary cash is held on behalf of insurance companies or clients. If one or more of the institutions in which we maintain significant cash balances were to fail, our ability to access these funds might be temporarily or permanently limited, and we could face a material liquidity problem and potentially material financial losses. We could also be liable to claims made by the insurance companies or our clients regarding the fiduciary cash held on their behalf.  

 A downgrade to our corporate credit rating and the credit ratings of our outstanding debt may adversely affect our borrowing costs and financial flexibility.  

 A downgrade in our corporate credit rating or the credit ratings of our debt would increase our borrowing costs including those under our credit facilities, and reduce our financial flexibility. In addition, certain downgrades would trigger a step-up in interest rates under the indentures for our 6.2% senior notes due 2017 and our 7.0% senior notes due 2019, which would increase our interest expense. If we need to raise capital in the future, any credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs or access to financing sources. This may in turn impact the assumptions when performing our goodwill impairment testing which may reduce the excess of fair value over carrying value of the reporting units.  

 We face certain risks associated with the acquisition or disposition of businesses or reorganization of existing investments.  

 In pursuing our corporate strategy, we may acquire or dispose of or exit businesses or reorganize existing investments. The success of this strategy is dependent upon our ability to identify appropriate opportunities, negotiate transactions on favorable terms and ultimately complete such transactions. Once we complete acquisitions or reorganizations there can be no assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any transaction, including revenue growth, operational efficiencies or expected synergies. For example, if we fail to recognize some or all of the strategic benefits and synergies expected from a transaction, goodwill and intangible assets may be impaired in future periods. In addition, we may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, and we could incur or assume unknown or unanticipated liabilities or contingencies, which may impact our results of operations. If we dispose of or otherwise exit certain businesses, there can be no assurance that we will not incur certain disposition related charges, or that we will be able to reduce overheads related to the divested assets. We also own an interest in a number of associates, such as Gras Savoye, where we do not exercise management control and we are therefore unable to direct or manage the business to realize the anticipated benefits that we can achieve through full integration.  

 We are a holding company and, therefore, may not be able to receive dividends or other distributions in needed amounts from our subsidiaries.  

 Willis Group Holdings is organized as a holding company that conducts no business of its own. We are dependent upon dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to meet our obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to shareholders and for corporate expenses. Legal and regulatory restrictions, foreign exchange controls, as well as operating requirements of our subsidiaries, may limit our ability to obtain cash from these subsidiaries. In the event our operating subsidiaries are unable to pay dividends and make other payments to Willis Group Holdings, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on ordinary shares.  

 If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings.  

 We have a substantial amount of goodwill on our balance sheet as a result of acquisitions we have completed. We review goodwill for impairment annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred.  

 Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets, liabilities and goodwill to reporting units and determination of fair value of each reporting unit. A significant deterioration    

 20    
 Risk factors   

 in a key estimate or assumption or a less significant deterioration to a combination of assumptions or the sale of a part of a reporting unit could result in an impairment charge in the future, which could have a significant adverse impact on our reported earnings.  

 Our annual goodwill impairment analysis is performed each year at October 1. At October 1, 2011 our analysis showed the estimated fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of the carrying value, and therefore did not result in an impairment charge (2010: $nil, 2009: $nil). The fair values of the Global and International reporting units were significantly in excess of their carrying values. The fair value of the North American unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 14 percent.  

 In the fourth quarter of 2011 our North America segment continued to be hampered by declining Loan Protector business results, the effect of the soft economy in the U.S. and declining retention rates primarily related to M&A activity and lost legacy HRH business. Consequently, the annual impairment test described above included additional sensitivity analysis, over and above that we would usually perform, in relation to our North America segment’s goodwill impairment review. This additional analysis included reductions to assumed rates of revenue growth, increases to assumed rates of expense growth and flexing the assumed weighted average cost of capital. Although our testing concluded there is no impairment, the analysis indicated that in respect of the North America segment, in the event of either a significant deterioration in a key estimate or assumption or a less significant deterioration to a combination of assumptions or the sale of part of the reporting unit there could be an impairment to the carrying value in future periods.  

 For further information on our testing for goodwill impairment, see ‘Critical Accounting Estimates’ under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 International Risks  

 Our significant non-US operations, particularly our London market operations, expose us to exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business.  

 A significant portion of our operations is conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, including devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into pounds sterling or dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; and the requirement of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.  

 We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars. Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in US dollars. In our London market operations, however, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies, but expenses are almost entirely incurred in pounds sterling. Outside the United States and our London market operations, we predominantly generate revenue and expenses in the local currency. The table gives an approximate analysis of revenues and expenses by currency in 2011.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Because of devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into US dollars, we are subject to currency translation exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure. Furthermore, the mismatch between pounds sterling revenues and expenses, together with any net sterling balance sheet position we hold in our US dollar denominated London market operations, creates an exchange exposure.  

 For example, as the pound sterling strengthens, the US dollars required to be translated into pounds sterling to cover the net sterling expenses increase, which then causes our results to be negatively impacted. However, any net sterling asset we    

 21    
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 are holding will be more valuable when translated into US dollars. Given these facts, the strength of the pound sterling relative to the US dollar has in the past had a material negative impact on our reported results. This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future.  

 Where possible, we hedge part of our operating exposure to exchange rate movements, but such mitigating attempts may not be successful.  

 In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to political, economic, legal, market, nationalization, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.  

 In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our global operations, we are subject to political, economic, legal, market, nationalization, operational and other risks. Our businesses and operations continue to expand into new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets. The possible effects of economic and financial disruptions throughout the world could have an adverse impact on our businesses. These risks include:  

  •   the general economic and political conditions in foreign countries, for example, the potential dissolution of the euro and the 2010 devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar;   

  •   the imposition of controls or limitations on the conversion of foreign currencies or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;   

  •   imposition of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments from subsidiaries;   

  •   imposition or increase of investment and other restrictions by foreign governments;   

  •   difficulties in controlling operations and monitoring employees in geographically dispersed and culturally diverse locations; and   

  •   the potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with a wide variety of foreign laws (some of which may conflict with US or other sources of law), laws and regulations applicable to US business operations abroad, including rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the US Office of Foreign Assets Control, the EU, the UK and the UN, and the requirements of the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act as well as other anti-bribery and corruption rules and requirements in the countries in which we operate.    

 Legislative and regulatory action could materially and adversely affect us and our effective tax rate may increase.  

 There is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate (which include the potential legislative actions described below), and our effective tax rate may increase and any such increase may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of Ireland and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. For example, legislative action may be taken by the US Congress which, if ultimately enacted, could override tax treaties upon which we rely or could broaden the circumstances under which we would be considered a US resident, each of which could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate and cash tax position. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. However, if proposals were enacted that had the effect of limiting our ability to take advantage of tax treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions (including the US), we could be subjected to increased taxation. In addition, any future amendments to the current income tax treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions could subject us to increased taxation.  

 Irish law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.  

 It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us in Ireland based on the civil liability provisions of the US federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Ireland would recognize or enforce judgments of US courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the US federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States currently does not have a treaty with Ireland providing    

 22    
 Risk factors   

 for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any US federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on US federal or state securities laws, would not be directly enforceable in Ireland. While not directly enforceable, it is possible for a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any US federal or state court based on civil liability to be enforced in Ireland through common law rules. However, this process is subject to numerous established principles and would involve the commencement of a new set of proceedings in Ireland to enforce the judgment.  

 As an Irish company, Willis Group Holdings is governed by the Irish Companies Acts, which differ in some material respects from laws generally applicable to US corporations and shareholders, including, among others, differences relating to interested director and officer transactions and shareholder lawsuits. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of an Irish company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Irish companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such rights of action on behalf of the Company only in limited circumstances. Accordingly, holders of Willis Group Holdings securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the United States.  

 Our non-core operations pose certain underwriting, advisory or reputational risks and can have, such as our Loan Protector business, a significant adverse impact on our financial results.  

 We provide a broad range of brokerage, reinsurance and risk management consulting services to our clients worldwide. We also engage in certain non-core operations. For example, our Willis Capital Markets & Advisory business provides advice to insurance and reinsurance companies on a broad array of mergers and acquisition transactions as well as capital markets products, including acting as underwriter or agent for primary issuances, operating a secondary insurance-linked securities trading desk and engaging in general capital markets and strategic advisory work. These operations may pose certain underwriting, advisory or reputational risks to our core business.  

 In addition, these non-core operations, although not material to the Group as a whole may, in any period, have a material effect on our results of operations. For example, our Willis Capital Markets & Advisory business is transaction-based which can cause results to differ from period-to-period. In addition, our financial results in 2011 were adversely impacted by the significant deterioration of the financial results of our Loan Protector business driven by the loss of clients through attrition and M&A activity, industry-wide commission pressures and a slowdown in foreclosures.   

 Item 1B — Unresolved Staff Comments   

 The Company had no unresolved comments from the SEC’s staff.   

 23    
 Willis Group Holdings plc   

 Item 2 — Properties