Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

OVERVIEW

We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems and surgical products with an emphasis on women's health. We operate in four segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service personnel and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives.

We offer a wide range of diagnostic products which are used primarily to aid in the diagnosis of human diseases and screen donated human blood and plasma. Our primary diagnostics products include our Aptima family of assays, which run on our advanced instrumentation systems (Panther and Tigris), our ThinPrep system, the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test and Procleix blood screening assays. The Aptima family of assays is used to detect the infectious microorganisms that cause the common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, chlamydia and gonorrhea, certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV, and Trichomonas vaginalis, the parasite that causes trichomoniasis. The ThinPrep System is primarily used in cytology applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. In blood screening, we develop and manufacture the Procleix family of assays, which are used to detect various infectious diseases. These blood screening products are marketed worldwide by our blood screening collaborator, Grifols S.A., or Grifols, under Grifols' trademarks.

Our Breast Health products include a broad portfolio of breast imaging and related products and accessories, including digital and film-based mammography systems, computer-aided detection, or CAD, for mammography and minimally invasive breast biopsy devices, breast biopsy site markers, breast biopsy guidance systems and breast brachytherapy products. Our most advanced breast imaging platform, Dimensions, utilizes a technology called tomosynthesis to produce 3D images that show multiple contiguous slice images of the breast, which we refer to as the Genius 3D Mammography exam, as well as conventional 2D full field digital mammography images.

Our GYN Surgical products include our NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System, or NovaSure, and our MyoSure Hysteroscopic Tissue Removal System, or MyoSure. The NovaSure system involves a trans-cervical procedure for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. The MyoSure system is a tissue removal device that is designed to provide incision-less removal of fibroids, polyps, and other pathology within the uterus.

Our Skeletal Health segment offers Discovery and Horizon X-ray bone densitometers that assess the bone density of fracture sites; and mini C-arm imaging systems that assist in performing minimally invasive surgical procedures on a patient's extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot, and ankle.

Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, Hologic or our company refer to Hologic, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

39
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

The continuing uncertainty surrounding worldwide financial markets and macroeconomic conditions has caused and may continue to cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease or delay their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities. Economic uncertainty as well as increasing health insurance premiums, deductibles and co-payments have resulted and may continue to result in cost-conscious consumers focusing on acute care rather than wellness, which has and may continue to adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. Furthermore, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. If the current adverse macroeconomic conditions continue, our business and prospects may be negatively impacted.

Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities from time to time which could result in decreased reimbursement or use of our products. For instance, on October 20, 2015, the American Cancer Society issued new guidelines recommending that women start annual mammograms at age 45 instead of 40 and that women have a mammogram every two years instead of annually. This recommendation could result in a decrease in purchases of our mammography systems. In addition, in November 2012, the American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists, known as the ACOG, released updates in which they have recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released in March 2012 by the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force, known as the USPSTF, and the American Cancer Society. However, the USPSTF recommendations now also include HPV co-testing for certain patient populations, an update from their draft guidelines in October 2011. Overall, we believe that these guidelines may have contributed to an increase in testing intervals in the U.S. for cervical cancer screening, resulting in fewer such tests being performed.

Over the last few years, there have been periodic significant fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. In fiscal 2015, there was a significant strengthening of the U.S. dollar versus the Euro, UK Pound and other currencies we transact in, which resulted in lower reported revenues of over $50 million compared to fiscal 2014. The ongoing fluctuations of the value of the U.S. dollar may cause our products to be less competitive in international markets and may impact sales and profitability over time. A majority of our international sales are denominated in foreign currencies. Given the uncertainty in the worldwide financial markets, foreign currency fluctuations may be significant in the future and we may experience a material adverse effect on our international revenues and operating results.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the percentage of total revenues represented by items as shown in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. All dollar amounts in tables are presented in millions.

40
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41
Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2015 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 27, 2014 

Product Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We generated an increase in product revenues in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014. The growth was across all four of our business segments on both a domestic and worldwide basis. Product revenues increased 8.4% in the current fiscal year compared to the prior fiscal year, as reported growth was partially offset by the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar against a number of currencies, most notably the Euro, UK Pound and Renminbi.

Diagnostics product revenues increased 4.2% in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to increases in Molecular Diagnostics of $32.3 million and Blood Screening of $27.1 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $12.1 million in our Cytology & PeriNatal business.

The increase in Molecular Diagnostics products, and in particular our Aptima family of assays was primarily due to increased volumes due to our increased installed base of Panther instruments, and increased sales volumes of our HPV screening assay, which was FDA approved for use on our Panther system in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in Cervista HPV revenues as customers transition to our Panther system and Aptima HPV assay and lower instrumentation sales due to the significant purchases made by Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, or Quest, in the first quarter of fiscal 2014. In addition, we have experienced slightly lower average selling prices. Our Blood Screening revenues increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to volume increases related to the agreement between Grifols, our blood screening partner, and the Japanese Red Cross, and restocking of certain assays for Grifols to normalize its inventory levels. The decrease in our Cytology & PeriNatal revenues in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily related to the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies, lower instrument sales and slightly lower average selling prices in China. ThinPrep Pap Test volumes domestically increased slightly in the current fiscal year compared to the prior fiscal year, and have increased more modestly internationally. In the U.S., we believe the negative impact on ThinPrep Pap test volumes resulting from interval expansion for cervical cancer screening was largely negated by our increased market share gains. 

Breast Health product revenues increased 16.5% in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014. Our digital mammography systems and related products revenue increased $116.1 million in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to the increase in 3D Dimensions units sold on a worldwide basis, which was principally driven by domestic sales. This increase was partially offset by slightly lower average selling prices and a product mix shift within the 3D offerings to systems with less features. In addition, we also had higher sales of 3D upgrades and related products primarily driven by our C-View product. As expected, we continue to experience a decline in the number of 2D systems sold as customers transition to the 3D Dimensions systems, which is occurring primarily in the United States. The increase in revenue was also partially offset by the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies, lower MRI breast coils product line revenue of $6.9 million as a result of the divestiture of this product line in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, and a decline of $10.2 million related to our Hitec-Imaging business primarily as a result of the completed shutdown of its organic photoconductor production line in fiscal 2014.

GYN Surgical product revenues increased 9.1% in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in MyoSure system sales of $29.1 million partially offset by lower NovaSure device sales of $1.3 million. The MyoSure system continues to gain strong market acceptance as unit sales increase globally, partially offset by a product mix shift and slightly lower average sales prices. NovaSure revenues were slightly lower in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies and slightly lower domestic volume, partially offset by higher international volume.

42
Skeletal Health product revenues increased 4.9% in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to volume increases in our Horizon osteoporosis assessment product sales on worldwide basis, which were partially offset by lower volumes of our older Discovery products, the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies, and lower average selling prices. 

In fiscal 2015, 74.6% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 12.4% in Europe, 9.3% in Asia-Pacific, and 3.7% in other international markets. In fiscal 2014, 73.6% of product revenues were generated in the United States, 13.8% in Europe, 8.6% in Asia-Pacific, and 4.0% in other international markets. The increase in the percentage of U.S. revenues was primarily due to increased sales of our 3D Dimensions system and related products and the negative impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar against the Euro and UK Pound, which resulted in lower European revenues.

Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. The majority of these revenues are generated within our Breast Health segment. Service and other revenues decreased 0.3% in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 as fiscal 2014 service and other revenues included $20.1 million of non-recurring revenue related to executing a license amendment with Roka Bioscience, Inc. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, which is included in our Diagnostics segment. Excluding this impact, service and other revenues increased by $18.9 million or 4.5% in fiscal 2015 due to a favorable shift in service contract pricing and higher installation and training revenues related to our increased sales of our 3D Dimensions systems. The increase was also driven to a lesser extent by an increase in the number of service contracts in our Breast Health business as our installed base of our digital mammography systems continues to grow. 

Cost of Product Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product gross margin increased to 53.5% in fiscal 2015 compared to 48.8% in fiscal 2014.

Cost of Product Revenues. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues in the current fiscal year decreased in Diagnostics and Breast Health, and increased in GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health compared to the prior fiscal year, resulting in the overall improvement in gross margins. 

Diagnostics’ product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in product revenue related to the increase in Aptima assay sales and related volumes resulting in favorable manufacturing variances, higher blood screening revenues, lower production costs at our manufacturing facilities, lower royalty expenses primarily for ThinPrep due to the expiration of a royalty obligation during fiscal 2014, lower Cervista HPV sales, and lower molecular diagnostics instrumentation sales, which have very low gross margins. Partially offsetting these improvements was the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies.

Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to the favorable product mix shift to our higher margin 3D Dimensions system. Our 3D Dimensions systems have higher average sales prices than our 2D systems and sales in the U.S. have higher average sales prices than those sold internationally, resulting in higher gross margins. In addition, we had higher software sales for 3D upgrades and our C-View product, which 

43
have higher gross margins than capital equipment sales, while we had lower revenues from our Hitec-Imaging business, which has lower gross margins than the majority of our Breast Health products. Partially offsetting these improvements was the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies.

GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in sales volumes for our MyoSure system and product mix shift. The MyoSure system has slightly lower gross margins than our NovaSure system. In addition, in the current fiscal year we recorded a $4.0 million charge to write-off certain inventory that will not be utilized. 

Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to decreases in the average selling prices for both our Horizon and legacy Discovery products principally due to the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets relates to acquired developed technology. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 8.5 and 20 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. The decrease in amortization expense in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to lower amortization expense from intangible assets from the Cytyc Corporation acquisition, which are being amortized based on the pattern of economic use, and the write-down in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 and the eventual write-off of the MRI breast coils developed technology asset as a result of the divestiture of this product line in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. Amortization expense in fiscal 2014 from the MRI breast coil product line was $9.1 million. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase due to certain in-process R&D projects from our Gen-Probe acquisition being completed in 2014 and reclassified to developed technology. The value assigned to these projects is now being amortized.

Impairment of Intangible Assets. There was no impairment of intangible assets in fiscal 2015. In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we evaluated our MRI breast coils product line asset group, which is within our Breast Health segment, for impairment due to our expectation that it would be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. The undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by this asset group over its estimated remaining life were not sufficient to recover its carrying value. At that time, we estimated the fair value of the asset group resulting in an aggregate impairment charge of $28.6 million, comprised of $27.1 million of intangible assets and $1.5 million of property and equipment. The impairment charge was allocated to the long-lived assets, resulting in $26.6 million being allocated to developed technology. The MRI breast coils product line was sold in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues gross margin was 50.0% in fiscal 2015 compared to 51.2% in fiscal 2014. Gross margin in fiscal 2015 was lower than the previous year as fiscal 2014 service and other revenues included $20.1 million of revenue from the Roka Bioscience, Inc. license amendment transaction, which did not have any corresponding costs. Excluding this transaction, gross margin would have improved by 1.2% in fiscal 2015. Within our Breast Health segment, gross margin improved primarily due to a favorable shift in service contract pricing and higher installation and training revenues related to our increased sales of 3D Dimensions systems. The increase was also driven to a lesser extent by the continued conversion of a high percentage of our domestic installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period improving leverage of our service infrastructure.

44
Operating Expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 5.8% in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in compensation from higher headcount and variable compensation due to improved operating results, primarily in our Diagnostics and GYN Surgical segments, and additional program spend for our virology product line within our molecular diagnostics business, including increased clinical spending and higher spend for prototype materials. Partially offsetting these increases was lower spend of $3.5 million from our MRI breast coils product line as a result of the divestiture of this business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period.

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 9.4% in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to increased commissions as a result of higher sales, an increase in spending on marketing initiatives primarily for our breast cancer awareness, Genius 3D mammography and cervical cancer awareness campaigns and higher training costs. These increases were partially offset by lower spend of $4.4 million from our MRI breast coils product line as a result of the divestiture of this business in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, lower international headcount from restructuring actions, and lower travel expenses.

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 0.5% in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to higher variable compensation due to improved operating results and higher stock-based compensation, increased consulting expenses for a number of corporate initiatives and higher medical device excise taxes from increased U.S. product sales. These increases were partially offset by decreases in credit card fees related to customer sales, lower spend related to our MRI breast coils line as a result of the divestiture in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, decreases in certain non-income tax expenses, a reduction of bad debt expense, reduced legal and consulting fees related to shareholder activism, and lower headcount primarily internationally from restructuring actions. 

Amortization of Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, and business licenses from our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. The decrease in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to lower amortization from intangibles acquired in the Cytyc Corporation acquisition in fiscal 2008 as the pattern of economic benefits decreases, partially offset by the shortening the remaining life of certain corporate trade names in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 as we decided to phase out their use.

Impairment of Intangible Assets. There was no impairment of intangible assets in fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2014, we recorded a $5.1 million impairment charge for our existing in-process research and development, or IPR&D, projects from our Gen-Probe acquisition primarily due to a reduction in estimated future revenues from these products. Additionally, in the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we recorded an impairment charge for a trade name intangible asset related to our MRI breast coils product line as previously discussed.

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, in connection with our acquisition of Gen-Probe, we implemented a restructuring action to consolidate our Diagnostics operations by decreasing headcount and 

45
transferring our legacy molecular diagnostics operations in Madison, Wisconsin. We also finalized our decision to transfer production of our interventional breast products from our Indianapolis facility to our Costa Rica facility. In fiscal 2013 and in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we implemented cost containment measures that primarily resulted in headcount reductions. In the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2014, we terminated certain personnel at our Hitec Imaging operation in Germany, and as part of ongoing management changes and structural refinement, we terminated certain executives and employees on a worldwide basis. Certain of these actions and related charges continued into fiscal 2015 and additional actions were taken in fiscal 2015 for executive management changes and to further consolidate operations. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the related severance and benefit charges are being recognized either ratably over the respective required employee service periods or when benefits become probable for contractual and statutory benefits, and other charges are being recognized as incurred. In fiscal 2015 and 2014, we recorded aggregate charges of $28.5 million and $51.7 million, respectively, from these actions, primarily for severance and benefits and to a lesser extent facility closure costs. Included in the fiscal 2015 charges was a $9.6 million charge to write-off the cumulative translation adjustment related to the divestiture of our MRI breast coils product line. This subsidiary was deemed to be substantially liquidated in the third quarter of fiscal 2015 as operations fully ceased. The charges recorded in fiscal 2014 primarily related to severance and benefits and include a $3.1 million impairment charge to record certain buildings at our Warstein, Germany location to their estimated fair value. In addition, the fiscal 2014 charges included a loss on divestiture of $5.3 million related to the sale of our MRI breast coils product line in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. For additional information, please refer to Note 3 contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Interest Expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Interest expense consists primarily of the cash interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs on our convertible notes, senior notes and amounts borrowed under our Credit Agreement and Prior Credit Agreement. The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 was primarily due to lower outstanding balances as a result of principal payments, prepayments and extinguishments and lower interest rates as a result of debt restructurings, partially offset by the increase in interest expense for transaction fees that were expensed related to executing the new Credit Agreement and our 5.250% Senior Notes due 2022. See below for additional discussion, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources” for definitions of “Credit Agreement” and “Prior Credit Agreement".

Debt Extinguishment Loss.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we completed a private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our 5.250% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Senior Notes"). We used the net proceeds of the 2022 Senior Notes, plus available cash to discharge the outstanding 6.25% Senior Notes due 2020 at an aggregate redemption price of $1.03 billion, reflecting a redemption premium payment of $31.25 million. As a result of this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $22.3 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the redemption premium and debt issuance costs for extinguished lenders.

Also in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, on various dates, we entered into privately negotiated transactions and repurchased $300 million principal amount of our 2010 Notes for a total payment of $543.7 million, which includes the conversion premium resulting from our stock price on the date of transaction being in excess of the conversion price of $23.03. In connection with these transactions, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $15.5 million related to the difference between the fair value of the liability component of the 2010 Notes and their respective carrying value at the redemption date. The remaining cash payments were allocated to the reacquisition of the equity component and recorded within additional paid-in-capital within stockholders' equity.

In the third quarter of fiscal 2015, we entered into a new Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. The initial net proceeds under the new Credit Agreement were used to refinance our obligations under our Prior Credit Agreement with 

46
Goldman Sachs Bank USA. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $18.2 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs under the existing facility.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2015, we voluntarily pre-paid $300.0 million of our Term Loan B facility under the Prior Credit Agreement. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $6.7 million to write-off the pro-rata amount of unamortized debt discount and deferred issuance costs related to this voluntary pre-payment.

In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we refinanced the Term Loan B facility of our Prior Credit Agreement and voluntarily prepaid $25.0 million of principal. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $4.5 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we made a $100.0 million voluntary pre-payment on our Term Loan B facility under the Prior Credit Agreement. As a result, the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs aggregating $2.9 million related to this prepayment was recorded as a debt extinguishment loss.

Other Expense, net.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In fiscal 2015, this account was primarily comprised of an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $7.8 million on a marketable security, net foreign currency exchange losses of $2.9 million, and $1.0 million of losses on cash surrender value of life insurance contracts and mutual funds related to our deferred compensation plan.

In fiscal 2014, this account was primarily comprised of other-than-temporary impairment charges on cost-method equity investments of $6.9 million and net foreign currency exchange losses of $1.8 million, partially offset by gains of $3.8 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts and mutual funds related to our deferred compensation plan. 

Provision for Income Taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2015 was 25.8% compared to 63.9% in fiscal 2014. For fiscal 2015, the effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the domestic production activities deduction benefit.

For fiscal 2014, the effective tax rate was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to unbenefited foreign losses partially offset by the domestic production activities deduction benefit.

Segment Results of Operations

We report our business as four segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income or loss. Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment.

Diagnostics.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to the increase in product revenues discussed above.

47
Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to increased gross profit in absolute dollars and lower operating expenses. Gross profit increased primarily due to increased Aptima sales, higher blood screening revenues as a result of a full year of revenue from the agreement between Grifols and the Japanese Red Cross, favorable manufacturing variances and lower royalty expense, partially offset by a decrease in Cervista HPV volume, lower instrumentation sales and the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, also offsetting gross profit dollar and margin in fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 included $20.1 million of non-recurring revenue related to executing a license amendment with Roka Bioscience, Inc. with no corresponding costs. Overall, the gross margin improved to 49.3% in fiscal 2015 from 46.8% in fiscal 2014.

Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to a reduction in headcount in general and administrative functions and sales and marketing, lower restructuring charges, and a decrease in the amortization of intangible assets. There was also lower bad debt expense and a decrease in non-income tax expense. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in spending on research and development for additional headcount and project spending, primarily for our virology product line, higher spend for various marketing initiatives and increased variable compensation from improved operating results. 

Breast Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to the $97.1 million increase in product revenues discussed above and a $21.6 million increase in service revenues.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenue, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross profit in absolute dollars increased primarily due to the increase in 3D Dimensions sales, on both a unit basis and as a percentage of total digital mammography systems, compared to our 2D systems, an increase in software related sales, which have higher gross margins, and lower amortization expense primarily due to the divestiture of our MRI breast coils product in fiscal 2014, partially offset by the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, fiscal 2014 included a $26.6 million impairment charge for developed technology assets related to our MRI breast coils product line discussed above. Service revenues also improved in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in service contracts from our higher installed base. As a result, overall gross margin increased to 56.4% in fiscal 2015 compared to 50.1% in fiscal 2014.

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in commissions from higher revenues, higher marketing expenditures primarily for our breast cancer awareness and Genius 3D campaigns, the $9.6 million charge to write-off the cumulative translation adjustment related to the divestiture of our MRI breast coils product line discussed above, and increased variable compensation from improved operating results. These expense increases were partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization expense, lower restructuring expenses, and lower MRI breast coils product line expenses (excluding restructuring) of $11.9 million as a result of its divestiture.

GYN Surgical.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 due to the increase in product revenues discussed above.

48
Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to an increase in gross profit in absolute dollars, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross margin increased to 57.3% in fiscal 2015 from 56.9% in fiscal 2014 primarily due to the benefit of higher sales volume partially offset by a $4.0 million charge to write-off inventory that will not be utilized, a product mix shift to higher sales volume of MyoSure systems and the negative foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthening U.S. dollar on our sales denominated in foreign currencies. 

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2015 primarily due to an increase in sales force headcount, higher commissions, increased costs associated with international sales initiatives, and increased research and development expenses as we develop next generation devices. These increases were partially offset by lower litigation fees. 

Skeletal Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2015 compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to the increase in product revenues of $3.1 million discussed above which was partially offset by a slight decrease in service and other revenue. 

Operating income decreased in fiscal 2015 compared to the prior year primarily due to higher operating expenses. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2015 primarily due to higher compensation from improved operating results and additional investment in research and development projects. 

49
Fiscal Year Ended September 27, 2014 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 28, 2013 

Product Revenues. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics product revenues decreased 1.7% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to a reduction in ThinPrep revenues of $31.5 million and a decrease of $23.1 million in Lifecodes revenue as a result of the divestiture of this product line in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in our molecular diagnostics products of $12.4 million primarily due to an increase in revenues from our Aptima family of assays and an increase in blood screening revenues of $24.5 million, which were partially offset by lower sales of our Tigris and Panther instrumentation and lower Prodesse sales.

We attributed the reduction in ThinPrep revenues primarily to lower domestic sales volumes resulting from an increase in screening intervals based on guidelines released in 2012 by the American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists and the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force and lower average sales prices internationally. 

The increase in revenues in fiscal 2014 related to our Aptima family of assays was primarily due to increased volumes from our strategic alliance with Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, or Quest, entered into in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, our increased installed base of Panther instruments, and increased sales volumes of our HPV screening assay, which was FDA approved for use on our Panther system in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. These increases were partially offset by slightly lower average sales prices for our Aptima products due to increased competitive pressures, and a reduction in Cervista HPV revenues as our larger customers transition to our Panther system and Aptima HPV assay. The reduction in instruments sales was primarily due to the ramp up of unit sales to Quest in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013. Prodesse revenues decreased in the fiscal 2014 primarily due to a milder flu season this year compared to the corresponding period in the prior year and the recent introduction of competitive products. 

Our blood screening revenues increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the inclusion of contingent revenue under our blood screening collaboration that was not recognized in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, and to a lesser extent the second quarter of fiscal 2013, due to unbilled accounts receivable being recorded as a fair value adjustment in purchase accounting. Under the collaboration, a portion of our blood screening revenue is contingent on donations testing revenue earned by our blood screening collaborator. As a result, amounts that were to be received for this contingent revenue related to inventory on hand and not yet utilized by Novartis’ (our blood screening collaborator at the time) customers as of the date we acquired Gen-Probe were recorded as unbilled accounts receivable on the balance sheet in purchase accounting, and these amounts were not recorded as revenue in our results of operations in fiscal 2013. The amount of this contingent revenue not recorded as revenue in fiscal 2013 was $23.5 million. We also experienced increased volume due to the agreement between Grifols, our current blood screening partner, and the Japanese Red Cross. These increases were partially offset by lower West Nile Virus assay sales compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2013 as 2013 had a higher incidence of the West Nile Virus resulting in higher donation testing. 

Breast Health product revenues increased 2.0% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013. Our digital mammography systems revenue increased $22.8 million in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in our 3D Dimensions units sold on a worldwide basis and higher workstations and workflow product revenue driven by our C-View product. We also experienced a decline in the number of 2D systems sold as customers transitioned to the 3D Dimensions systems, which occurred primarily in the United States. In addition, our breast biopsy products revenue increased $2.3 million in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in the number of Eviva biopsy devices sold worldwide. These increases were partially offset by declines in our analog mammography systems and Hitec Imaging products. 

GYN Surgical product revenues increased 0.3% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in MyoSure system sales of $18.3 million partially offset by lower NovaSure device sales of $16.8 million. The MyoSure system continued to gain strong market acceptance as unit sales increased globally, partially offset by product mix. We experienced a 

50
decrease in the number of NovaSure devices sold in the United States, which we believed was primarily attributable to patients delaying surgery or opting for lower cost and generally less effective alternatives, partially offset by higher international volume. 

Skeletal Health product revenues increased 1.4% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in our osteoporosis assessment product sales, namely our Horizon product, which was introduced in late fiscal 2013, and to a lesser extent our mini C-arm systems, partially offset by lower volumes of our older Discovery products and pricing pressures. 

In fiscal 2014, 73.6% of product sales were generated in the United States, 13.8% in Europe, 8.6% in Asia-Pacific, and 4.0% in other international markets. In fiscal 2013, 73.9% of product sales were generated in the United States, 13.6% in Europe, 8.9% in Asia-Pacific, and 3.6% in other international markets.

Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues increased 11.3% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in the number of service contracts in our Breast Health business driven by an increase in the installed base of our digital mammography systems, an increase in services not covered by service contracts and higher installation and training revenues related to our 3D Dimensions systems. In addition, within our Diagnostics' segment, we executed a license amendment with Roka Bioscience, Inc. and received $20.1 million of non-recurring revenue in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.

Cost of Product Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Product gross margin increased to 48.8% in fiscal 2014 compared to 46.3% in fiscal 2013.

Cost of Product Revenues. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues in fiscal 2014 decreased in Diagnostics, Breast Health, and Skeletal Health and remained relatively consistent in GYN Surgical compared to fiscal 2013, resulting in an overall improved gross margin.

Diagnostics’ product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the inclusion of $52.4 million in fiscal 2013 of additional costs related to the sale of acquired inventory written up to fair value in purchase accounting for the Gen-Probe acquisition. In addition, we were able to recognize contingent revenue under our blood screening collaboration in fiscal 2014 that we were not able to recognize in fiscal 2013 due to a purchase accounting adjustment. We also had lower Tigris and Panther sales in fiscal 2014 and these instrument sales are typically low margin transactions. Furthermore, we experienced favorable manufacturing variances across many of our products and lower royalty costs for ThinPrep, partially offset by unfavorable pricing on ThinPrep and Aptima sales and increased service costs for placed instruments.

Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in 3D Dimensions sales on both a unit basis and as a percentage of total digital mammography systems sales compared to our 2D systems. Our 3D Dimensions systems have higher average sales prices than our 2D systems resulting in higher gross margins. In addition, we had higher software related sales for 3D upgrades and our C-View product, which have higher gross margins than capital equipment sales. 

51
GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue in fiscal 2014 was relatively consistent with fiscal 2013. While we experienced lower domestic NovaSure volumes and a change in MyoSure product mix, this trend was offset by the increased utilization at our Costa Rica facility in fiscal 2014 as a result of the transfer of our breast biopsy products from our Indianapolis, Indiana facility during the second half of fiscal 2013. 

Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in revenue for our Horizon product, which has a higher gross margin than our legacy Discovery products.

Amortization of Intangible Assets. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to certain in-process research and development projects recorded in the Gen-Probe acquisition receiving FDA approval in fiscal 2013. As a result, these approved projects are being amortized. In addition, we adjusted the estimated life of the MRI breast coils developed technology assets in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 resulting in higher amortization expense.

Impairment of Intangible Assets. In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we evaluated our MRI breast coils product line asset group, which was within our Breast Health segment, for impairment due to our expectation that it would be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. The undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by this asset group over its estimated remaining life were not sufficient to recover its carrying value. At that time, we estimated the fair value of the asset group resulting in an aggregate impairment charge of $28.6 million, comprised of $27.1 million of intangible assets and $1.5 million of property and equipment. The impairment charge was allocated to the long-lived assets, resulting in $26.6 million being allocated to developed technology. The MRI breast coils product line was sold in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014.

During the third quarter of fiscal 2013, we determined that a developed technology asset was impaired due to our decision to cease selling and providing support for such product. As a result, we recorded a $1.7 million charge to record the asset at its fair value.

Cost of Service and Other Revenues.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service and other revenues gross margin was 51.2% in fiscal 2014 compared to 48.1% in fiscal 2013. Within our Breast Health segment, the continued conversion of a high percentage of our domestic installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period without a corresponding increase in costs to service such contracts resulted in higher gross margins. In addition, the $20.1 million of revenue from the Roka Bioscience, Inc. license amendment transaction, which did not have any corresponding costs, increased gross margin. 

52
Operating Expenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

** Percentage not meaningful

Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 2.8% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to increased compensation, additional program spend for our virology product line and increased spending for our next generation breast biopsy products. These increases were partially offset by lower headcount, reductions to certain development programs, primarily in the GYN Surgical business as part of our cost containment measures implemented in fiscal 2013 and the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2014, lower integration costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition, and the divestiture of Lifecodes (in the second quarter of fiscal 2013), which contributed $4.2 million of expense in the prior year. Research and development primarily reflects spending on new product development programs, regulatory compliance and clinical research and trials. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period.

Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses decreased 3.0% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to lower compensation as a result of headcount reductions and lower spend on trade shows, seminars, consulting services, medical education and travel, primarily as a result of our cost containment measures, and lower integration costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition. In addition, fiscal 2013 included $4.6 million of expense related to Lifecodes. These reductions were partially offset by an increase in spend for advertising initiatives and market research.

General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 14.1% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in the medical device excise tax of $6.2 million (primarily due to the inclusion of this expense for the entire fiscal year in 2014 compared to three quarters in fiscal 2013), legal and consulting fees of $4.7 million incurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2014 to assist us in our negotiations and response to shareholder activism, higher legal fees for litigation, an increase in certain non-income tax expenses, tax consulting fees and credit card fees related to customer payments, partially offset by lower compensation due to headcount reductions from our cost containment measures and lower integration costs related to the Gen-Probe acquisition. In addition, the first quarter of fiscal 2013 included legal settlement benefits of $8.9 million.

Amortization of Intangible Assets. The increase in amortization expense in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to shortening the remaining life of certain corporate trade names as we decided to phase out their use during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 partially offset by lower amortization from intangibles acquired in the Cytyc Corporation acquisition in fiscal 2008 as the pattern of economic benefits decreased.

53
Impairment of Intangible Assets. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we recorded a $5.1 million impairment charge for our existing in-process research and development, or IPR&D, projects from our Gen-Probe acquisition primarily due to a reduction in estimated future revenues from these products. 

Contingent Consideration—Compensation Expense. In connection with our acquisition of TCT International Co., Ltd., or TCT, we were obligated to make contingent earn-out payments. The payments were contingent on future employment and based on achieving certain incremental revenue growth milestones. The measurement period ended in fiscal 2013, and as such, there were no charges in fiscal 2014.

Contingent Consideration—Fair Value Adjustments. In connection with our acquisition of Interlace Medical, Inc., or Interlace, we were required to pay future consideration that was contingent on achieving certain revenue based milestones. As of the acquisition date, we recorded a contingent consideration liability for the estimated fair value of the amount we expected to pay to the former shareholders of Interlace. This liability was based on future revenue projections. We recorded charges of $11.3 million in fiscal 2013 reflecting an increase in the fair value of the liability due to higher revenues from Interlace than originally estimated. The measurement period for this contingent consideration ended in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, and as such, there were no charges in fiscal 2014.

Impairment of Goodwill. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, as a result of our company-wide annual budgeting and forecasting process and a full re-evaluation of our existing product development efforts and cost structure, we reduced our short term and long term revenue forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit. The Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit is primarily comprised of our Aptima business acquired in the Gen-Probe acquisition and the molecular diagnostics business acquired in the acquisition of Third Wave Technologies, Inc. The updated forecast, which reflected pricing pressures, for revenue and profitability were lower than those expected at the time of the Gen-Probe acquisition. As such, the fair value of this reporting unit declined. As a result of performing Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test, which requires the completion of a hypothetical purchase price allocation to determine the fair value of the implied goodwill, we recorded a $1.1 billion goodwill impairment charge. For additional information, refer to Note 2— “Intangible Assets and Goodwill” to the consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Gain on Sale of Intellectual Property. In the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we recorded a net gain of $53.9 million related to the sale of our Makena asset to K-V Pharmaceutical Company, or KV. On August 4, 2012, KV and certain of its subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of Title 11 of the United States Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. At that time, KV still owed us $95.0 million. In December 2012, we executed a settlement agreement with KV and released KV from all claims in consideration of a $60.0 million payment. We recorded this payment, net of certain costs, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013. For additional information, please refer to Note 6 contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Restructuring and Divestiture Charges. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, in connection with our acquisition of Gen-Probe, we implemented a restructuring action to consolidate our Diagnostics operations by decreasing headcount and transferring our legacy molecular diagnostics operations in Madison, Wisconsin. We also finalized our decision to transfer production of our interventional breast products from our Indianapolis facility to our Costa Rica facility. In fiscal 2013 and in the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we implemented cost containment measures that primarily resulted in headcount reductions. In the second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2014, we terminated certain personnel at our Hitec Imaging operation in Germany, and as part of ongoing management changes and structural refinement, we terminated certain executives and employees on a worldwide basis. Pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the related severance and benefit charges are being recognized either ratably over the respective required employee service periods or when benefits become probable for contractual and statutory benefits, and other charges are being recognized as incurred. In fiscal 2014 and 2013, we recorded aggregate charges of $51.7 million and $32.8 million, respectively, from these actions. The charges recorded in fiscal 2014 primarily related to severance and benefits and include a $3.1 million impairment charge to record certain buildings at our Warstein, Germany location to their estimated fair value. In addition, these charges include a loss on divestiture of $5.3 million related to the sale of our MRI breast coils product line in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014. The charges in fiscal 2013 primarily related to severance and benefits. In addition, in fiscal 2013 we recorded a net gain of $0.6 million primarily related to the sale of our Lifecodes business in the second quarter of fiscal 2013. For additional information, please refer to Note 3 contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Interest Expense.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

54
The decrease in interest expense in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 was primarily due to principal payments in fiscal 2013 and 2014, which included $325.0 million of voluntary pre-payments, of amounts borrowed under our Prior Credit Agreement, lower weighted-average interest rates due to refinancing both the Term Loan A and Term Loan B facilities under the Prior Credit Agreement, and the redemption of $405.0 million in principal amount of our 2007 Notes in December 2013. These decreases were partially offset by additional interest expense from the accretion of principal on our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2043, or the 2013 Notes, at 4.0% annually.

Debt Extinguishment Loss.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the second quarter of fiscal 2014, we refinanced the Term Loan B facility of our Prior Credit Agreement and voluntarily prepaid $25.0 million of principal. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $4.5 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs. In the first quarter of fiscal 2014, we made a $100.0 million voluntary pre-payment on the Term Loan B facility of our Prior Credit Agreement. As a result, the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs aggregating $2.9 million related to this prepayment was recorded as a debt extinguishment loss.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we refinanced the Term Loan B facility of the Prior Credit Agreement and made a voluntary prepayment of $200.0 million of principal. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $6.0 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs. In the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we refinanced the Term Loan A facility of the Prior Credit Agreement and certain existing creditors opted not to participate in such refinancing. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $3.2 million for the write-off of the pro-rata share of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs.

Other (Expense) Income, net.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In fiscal 2014, this account was primarily comprised of other-than-temporary impairment charges on cost-method equity investments of $6.9 million and net foreign currency exchange losses of $1.8 million, partially offset by gains of $3.8 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts and mutual funds related to our deferred compensation plan. 

In fiscal 2013, this account was primarily comprised of gains on our investments for our deferred compensation plan of $4.7 million, a $2.0 million gain on the sale of a cost-method investment, $1.3 million from insurance and investment recoveries, and net foreign currency exchange gains of $0.5 million. Partially offsetting these gains were other-than-temporary impairment charges for cost-method equity investments of $6.4 million.

Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2014 was 63.9% compared to a benefit of 1.7% on the pretax loss in fiscal 2013.  For fiscal 2014, the effective tax rate was higher than the statutory rate primarily due to unbenefited foreign losses partially offset by the domestic production activities deduction benefit.

For fiscal 2013, the effective tax rate was lower than the statutory rate primarily due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment charge, non-deductible contingent consideration expense related to the TCT and Interlace acquisitions and unbenefited foreign losses, partially offset by the domestic production activities deduction benefit and the release of a $19.9 million valuation allowance related to capital losses utilized to offset capital gains generated during the year.

55
Segment Results of Operations

Diagnostics. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Diagnostics revenues decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the decrease in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013, primarily due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 billion recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 related to our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit discussed above.

Gross profit in absolute dollars increased primarily due to the inclusion in fiscal 2013 of fair value adjustments of $52.4 million for acquired Gen-Probe inventory that did not recur in fiscal 2014. In addition, we were able to record contingent revenue under our blood screening collaboration in fiscal 2014 that had previously been recorded as unbilled accounts receivable in purchase accounting as described above. Furthermore, we experienced favorable manufacturing variances across many of our products, lower royalty costs for ThinPrep, and lower instrumentation sales, partially offset by lower ThinPrep volumes and slightly lower pricing on ThinPrep and Aptima sales. As a result, the gross margin improved to 46.8% in fiscal 2014 from 41.4% in fiscal 2013.

Operating expenses, excluding the goodwill impairment charge noted above, decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to a decrease of $80.0 million of contingent consideration charges related to TCT, the divestiture of Lifecodes, which contributed $9.4 million of operating expenses in fiscal 2013, and lower Gen-Probe integration costs, restructuring charges, and compensation from headcount reductions as part of our cost containment measures. These decreases were partially offset by the $5.1 million IPR&D charge, increases in spending on research and development for our virology products and market research, higher intangible asset amortization expense of $4.2 million due to changes in estimated useful lives, and an increase in the medical device excise tax of $2.8 million. As discussed above, fiscal 2013 included a $53.9 million gain related to the settlement with KV for the sale of our rights to Makena.

Breast Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the $28.0 million increase in service revenues and the $11.6 million increase in product revenues discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to higher operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in gross profit in absolute dollars. Gross profit in absolute dollars increased primarily due to the increase in product and service revenues and the favorable product mix between 3D Dimensions and our 2D systems partially offset by a $24.9 million increase in developed technology asset impairment charges related to our impairment assessment of the MRI breast coils product line in the second quarter of fiscal 2014 discussed above and higher intangible asset amortization expense. As a result, overall gross margin declined slightly to 50.1% in fiscal 2014 compared to 50.2% in fiscal 2013.

Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to higher restructuring and divestiture charges, which includes corporate allocated amounts and the loss on disposal of the MRI breast coils product line of $5.3 million, higher research and development expenditures primarily for next generation breast biopsy devices, higher 

56
compensation and an increase in the medical device excise tax of $2.6 million and intangible asset and property impairment charges related to the MRI breast coils product line aggregating $1.8 million.

GYN Surgical.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

GYN Surgical revenues remained relatively flat in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 as discussed above.

Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to a decrease in operating expenses while gross profit in absolute dollars was relatively flat as revenues were consistent year over year. Gross margin was 56.9% in both fiscal 2014 and 2013.

Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2014 primarily due to the $11.3 million of contingent consideration charges related to the Interlace earn-out included in fiscal 2013. Additional reductions in operating expenses were primarily due to headcount reductions, lower research and development program expenditures and lower marketing related expenditures, all as a result of our cost containment measures, and lower intangible asset amortization expense. These decreases were offset by higher legal fees associated with our ongoing litigation, restructuring charges and an increase in the medical device excise tax.

Skeletal Health.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in product revenues of $0.9 million discussed above and a slight increase in service and other revenue. 

Operating income increased in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 primarily due to the increase in gross profit in absolute dollars as a result of higher sales of our higher margin Horizon product and lower operating expenses. The decrease in operating expenses was primarily driven by a decrease in restructuring charges.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At September 26, 2015, we had $322.4 million of working capital, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $491.3 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance decreased by $244.8 million during fiscal 2015 principally due to principal payments on our outstanding debt, repurchases of certain of our convertible notes and capital expenditures, partially offset by an increase in operating cash flows and proceeds from equity plans.

In fiscal 2015, our operating activities provided us with $786.1 million of cash, which included net income of $131.6 million, non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization aggregating $491.4 million, non-cash interest expense of $63.8 million related to our outstanding debt, stock-based compensation expense of $59.3 million, debt extinguishment losses of $62.7 million, and a $9.6 million charge related to writing off the cumulative translation adjustment of our MRI breast coils product line that was deemed to be substantially liquidated. These adjustments to net income were partially offset by a decrease in net deferred tax liabilities of $148.8 million, primarily from the amortization of intangible assets. Cash provided by operations included a net cash inflow of $98.5 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities were driven primarily by a decrease in inventory of $43.9 million as a result of increased sales in both the Diagnostics and Breast Health segments, an overall effort to reduce inventory levels and the divestiture of the MRI breast coils product line, an increase in accrued expenses of $36.9 million primarily due to the accrual of higher annual bonuses, commissions and project spend, partially offset by payments for restructuring actions and litigation, an increase in accounts payable of $25.5 million due to the timing of payments, and an increase in deferred revenue of $16.1 million primarily 

57
due to an increase in our installed base of digital mammography systems. These cash flow increases were partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $30.3 million primarily driven by an increase in revenues.

In fiscal 2015, our investing activities utilized $86.1 million of cash primarily for capital expenditures of $89.4 million, which consisted primarily of the placement of equipment under customer usage agreements and purchases of manufacturing equipment and computer hardware, partially offset by net sales of mutual funds and insurance contracts of $3.6 million to pay participant withdrawals from our deferred compensation plan due to employee terminations.

In fiscal 2015, our financing activities used cash of $936.7 million, primarily due to net payments related to our Credit Agreement and Prior Credit Agreement (each as defined below) of $393.6 million in the aggregate, which included $300.0 million in voluntary prepayments under the Prior Credit Agreement, and $105.0 million of scheduled principal payments under our Credit Agreement and Prior Credit Agreement, partially offset by a $16.3 million increase in borrowing when we refinanced the Prior Credit Agreement with the new Credit Agreement. We also made a net payment of $31.25 million for the redemption premium related to refinancing our 6.25% Senior Notes due 2020 ("Prior Senior Notes") with our new 5.250% Senior Notes due 2022 ("2022 Senior Notes"). In addition, we repurchased $300 million principal amount of our 2.00% Convertible Exchange Senior Notes due 2037, or the 2010 Notes, for a total payment of $543.7 million, which includes the conversion premium resulting from our stock price on the date of transaction being in excess of the conversion price of $23.03. Other cash outflows included $22.7 million of debt issuance costs related to our various refinancing activities, $12.9 million for employee-related taxes withheld for the net share settlement of vested restricted stock units, and $13.2 million for the purchase of interest rate caps to hedge the variable interest rate on amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement and Prior Credit Agreement. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were proceeds of $70.0 million from our equity plans, primarily from the exercise of stock options.

Debt

We had total recorded debt outstanding of $3.6 billion at September 26, 2015, which is comprised of amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement of $1.65 billion (principal $1.66 billion), our 2022 Senior Notes of $1.0 billion and our convertible notes of $1.00 billion (principal $1.02 billion). 

Credit Agreement

On May 29, 2015, we and certain of our domestic subsidiaries entered into a Credit and Guaranty Agreement, or the Credit Agreement, with Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and certain other lenders party thereto (collectively, the "Lenders"). This Credit Agreement replaced our existing senior secured credit facility with Goldman Sachs Bank USA, in its capacity as administrative agent and collateral agent and the lenders party thereto ("Prior Credit Agreement") entered into on August 1, 2012, and the proceeds under the Credit Agreement of $1.68 billion were used to pay off the amounts outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement.

The credit facilities under the Credit Agreement consist of: 

•A $1.5 billion secured term loan to Hologic with a final maturity date of May 29, 2020 or the Term Loan; and 

•A secured revolving credit facility under which the Borrowers (as defined below) may borrow up to $1 billion, subject to certain sublimits, with a final maturity date of May 29, 2020 or the Revolver.

Hologic and one of its subsidiaries, Hologic GGO 4 Ltd (“Hologic U.K.”) are the initial borrowers (the “Borrowers”) under the Credit Agreement. Hologic’s obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by certain of Hologic’s domestic subsidiaries (the “Subsidiary Guarantors”). Hologic U.K.’s obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by Hologic and the Subsidiary Guarantors. 

In addition to the Term Loan, we borrowed $175.0 million under the Revolver. Borrowings under the Revolver may be made in certain alternative currencies pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement. We have the ability, subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, to designate any additional wholly-owned foreign subsidiary as a Designated Borrower (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to receive loans up to a $100 million sublimit. The obligations of any Designated Borrower under such sublimit would be guaranteed by us and our Subsidiary Guarantors.

As of September 26, 2015, the interest rate under the Term Loan and Revolver was 1.95% on the outstanding amounts, which is reflective of the Eurocurrency Rate (i.e., Libor) plus the applicable margin of 1.75% per annum as set forth in the Credit Agreement. The applicable margin is subject to specified changes depending on the total net leverage ratio as defined in the Credit Agreement. 

We are required to make scheduled principal payments under the Term Loan in increasing amounts ranging from $18.75 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on September 25, 2015 to $37.5 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on September 28, 2018. The remaining balance of the 

58
Term Loan is due at maturity. Any amounts outstanding under the Revolver are due at maturity. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement, we are required to make certain mandatory prepayments from specified excess cash flows from operations (to the extent our net senior secured leverage ratio exceeds a certain ratio) and from the net proceeds of specified types of asset sales (subject to certain reinvestment rights), debt issuances and insurance recoveries (subject to certain reinvestment rights) (“Mandatory Prepayments”). Mandatory Prepayments are required to be applied by us, first, to the Term Loan, second, to any outstanding amount under the swing line sublimit, third, to the Revolver, and fourth to any outstanding amount under a letter of credit sublimit. Subject to certain limitations, we may voluntarily prepay any of the credit facilities under the Credit Agreement without premium or penalty. 

The Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting our ability and that of the Subsidiary Guarantors, subject to negotiated exceptions, to incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of our businesses. The Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and events of default, including payment defaults, breach of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross defaults and an event of default upon a change of control of the company.

Borrowings are secured by first-priority liens on, and a first-priority security interest in, substantially all of our assets, with certain exceptions. The Credit Agreement contains total net leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio financial covenants measured as of the last day of each fiscal quarter. The total net leverage ratio is 5.50:1.00 beginning on our fiscal quarter ended September 26, 2015, and then decreases over time to 4.00:1.00 for the quarter ending March 28, 2020. The interest coverage ratio is 3.75:1.00 beginning on our fiscal quarter ending September 26, 2015, and will remain as such for each quarter thereafter. The total net leverage ratio is defined as the ratio of our consolidated net debt as of the quarter end to our consolidated adjusted EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for the four-fiscal quarter period ending on each measurement date. The interest coverage ratio is defined as the ratio of our consolidated adjusted EBITDA for the prior four-fiscal quarter period ending on each measurement date to adjusted consolidated cash interest expense for the same measurement period. These terms, and the calculation thereof, are defined in further detail in the Credit Agreement. As of September 26, 2015, we were in compliance with these covenants.

Senior Notes

On July 2, 2015, we completed a private placement of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our 2022 Senior Notes. The 2022 Senior Notes are our general senior unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of our domestic subsidiaries (the "Guarantors"). The 2022 Senior Notes mature on July 15, 2022 and bear interest at the rate of 5.250% per year, payable semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on January 15, 2016. We used the net proceeds of the 2022 Senior Notes, plus available cash to discharge our outstanding $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our Prior Senior Notes and we redeemed such Prior Senior Notes on August 1, 2015 at an aggregate redemption price of $1.03 billion, reflecting a premium payment of $31.25 million.

The 2022 Senior Notes indenture contains covenants which limit, among other things, our ability and the ability of the Guarantors to incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets, to engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, to pay dividends or make other distributions, to enter into certain transactions with affiliated persons and to make certain investments. These covenants are subject to a number of exceptions and qualifications, including the suspension of certain of these covenants upon the 2022 Senior Notes receiving an investment grade credit rating. We are not required to maintain any financial covenants with respect to the 2022 Senior Notes.

 We may redeem the 2022 Senior Notes at any time prior to July 15, 2018 at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and a make-whole premium set forth in the indenture. We may also redeem up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of our 2022 Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at any time and from time to time before July 15, 2018, at a redemption price equal to 105.250% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We also have the option to redeem the 2022 Senior Notes on or after: July 15, 2018 through July 14, 2019 at 102.625% of par; July 15, 2019 through July 14, 2020 at 101.313% of par; and July 15, 2020 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if we undergo a change of control, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2022 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date.

Convertible Notes

At September 26, 2015, our convertible notes, in the aggregate principal amount of $1.02 billion, are recorded at $1.00 billion, which is net of the unamortized debt discount attributed to the embedded conversion feature of the convertible notes. These notes consist of:

•$150 million of our 2.00% Convertible Exchange Senior Notes due 2037 issued in November 2010 (2010 Notes);

59
•$500 million of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2042 issued in March 2012 (2012 Notes); and

•$370 million of our 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2043 issued in February 2013 (2013 Notes).

The 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes are collectively referred to herein as the convertible notes. Interest on the 2013 Notes is currently being accreted to principal, from their date of issuance, at a rate of 4.00% per year until December 15, 2017, and 2.00% per year thereafter. All other notes bear interest at a rate of 2.00% per year on the original principal amount, payable semi-annually in arrears until their first put date and thereafter accrete principal at the rate of 2.00% per year. In addition, under certain circumstances contingent interest may be payable under the convertible notes after each of their first put date. 

The 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes have conversion prices of approximately $23.03, $31.175 and $38.59, respectively, and are subject in each case to adjustment. Holders of the 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes may convert their convertible notes at the applicable conversion price under certain circumstances, including without limitation (x) if the last reported sale price of our common stock exceeds 130% of the applicable conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter and (y) if the applicable series of convertible notes has been called for redemption. It is our current intent and policy to settle any conversion of the convertible notes as if we had elected to make either a net share settlement or all cash election, such that upon conversion, we intend to pay the holders in cash for the principal amount of the convertible notes and, if applicable shares of our common stock or cash to satisfy the premium based on a calculated daily conversion value.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, the closing price of our common stock exceeded 130% of the applicable conversion price of our 2010 Notes on at least 20 of the last 30 consecutive trading days of the quarter. Therefore holders of the 2010 Notes are able to convert their notes during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. As such, we classified the $142.2 million carrying value of our 2010 Notes (which have a principal value of $150.0 million) as a current debt obligation. In the event the closing price conditions are met in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 or a future fiscal quarter, the 2010 Notes will be convertible at a holder's option during the immediately following fiscal quarter. As of September 26, 2015, the if-converted value of the 2010 Notes exceeded the aggregate principal amount by approximately $114.1 million. 

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2010 Notes on each of December 15, 2016, 2020, 2025, on December 13, 2030 and on December 14, 2035, or upon a fundamental change as provided in the indenture for the 2010 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2012 Notes on each of March 1, 2018, 2022, 2027 and 2032, and on March 2, 2037, or upon a fundamental change as provided in the indenture for the 2012 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

Holders may require us to repurchase the 2013 Notes on each of December 15, 2017, 2022, 2027, 2032 and 2037, or upon a fundamental change as provided in the indenture for the 2013 Notes, at a repurchase price equal to 100% of their accreted principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.

We may redeem any of the 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes beginning December 19, 2016, March 6, 2018, and December 15, 2017, respectively. As discussed above, holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their notes prior to redemption. We may redeem all or a portion of the 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes (i.e., in cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock) at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the applicable redemption date.

We have recorded deferred tax liabilities related to our convertible notes original issuance discount, representing the spread between the stated cash coupon rate and the higher interest rate that is deductible for tax purposes based on the type of security. When our convertible notes are extinguished, we are required to recapture the original issuance discount previously deducted for tax purposes. The tax recapture, however, decreases as the fair market value of the convertible notes and the amount paid on settlement increases. 

Stock Repurchase Program

On November 11, 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $250.0 million of our outstanding common stock over the next three years. Under the stock repurchase program, we are authorized to repurchase, from time-to-time, shares of our outstanding common stock on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions in the United States. The timing and amount of stock repurchases will be determined based upon our evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The stock repurchase program may be suspended, modified or discontinued at any time, and we have no obligation to repurchase any amount of our common stock under the program. Through September 26, 2015 we had not repurchased any shares of our common stock under this program.

60
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and commitments as of September 26, 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1)Included within long-term debt obligations are our 2010 Notes which are convertible by their respective holders in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 as further discussed above. In addition, we have two other issuances (2012 Notes and 2013 Notes) of convertible notes which can first be put to us on March 1, 2018 ($500 million principal), and December 15, 2017 ($370 million principal) and we have assumed for purposes of the above table that the principal amounts for each issuance will be paid off when they first can be put to us, which is in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018. The 2013 Notes also have principal accretion of 4.00% annually, which is included in the principal amount in the 1-3 years column above. The amounts in the table do not include deferred tax liabilities for the recapture of the original issuance discount.

(2)The financing leases represent two leases for an office building and a manufacturing facility, which were required to be recorded on our balance sheet under U.S. GAAP. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.

(3)Purchase obligations primarily represent minimum purchase commitments for inventory and instruments and, to a lesser extent, other operating expense commitments.

(4)Represents minimum royalties due on net sales of products incorporating licensed technology and subject to a minimum annual royalty payment, and payments under collaborative agreements. In addition to the minimum payments due under our collaborative agreements included above, we may be required to pay up to $4.4 million in milestone payments, plus royalties on net sales of any products using specified technology.

(5)Pension obligations do not include our obligation under our deferred compensation plans of $29.4 million, which is recorded as a current liability. Deferred compensation plan benefits are generally paid out at retirement or termination of employment.

The above table does not reflect our long-term liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions recorded under FIN 48 (codified primarily in ASC 740, Income Taxes) totaling $145.1 million. Due to the complexity associated with tax uncertainties, we cannot reasonably make a reliable estimate of the period in which we expect to settle these non-current liabilities. See Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report for more information on our unrecognized tax benefits. 

Future Liquidity Considerations

We expect to continue to review and evaluate potential strategic transactions and alliances that we believe will complement our current or future business. Subject to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report, we believe that cash flow from operations and the cash available under our Revolver will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected normal operations, and debt payments, including interest over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, repayment of debt, acquisitions or other investments, or to repay our convertible notes and related deferred tax liabilities. As described above, we have significant indebtedness outstanding under our Credit Agreement, 2022 Senior Notes and convertible notes. These capital requirements could be substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors set forth elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity.

61
Legal Contingencies

We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies, loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, fair values of equity investments, valuations, purchase price allocations and contingent consideration related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.

Inventory

Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. As a developer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment and diagnostic test kits, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures on products and prices, and reliability and replacement of and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate our ability to realize the value of our inventory based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product expiration or end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Assumptions used in determining our estimates of future product demand may prove to be incorrect, in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory would have to be adjusted in the future. If inventory is determined to be overvalued, excess or obsolete, we would be required to record impairment charges within cost of goods sold at the time of such determination. Although considerable effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or expected usage could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results. When recorded, our reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventory to its net realizable value.

Accounts Receivable Reserves

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. We regularly evaluate the collectability of our trade receivables based on a combination of factors, including discussions with the customer to determine the cause of non-payment, and evaluation of the customer’s current financial situation. In the event it is determined that the customer may not be able to meet its full obligation to us, we record a specific allowance to reduce the receivable to the amount that we expect to recover given all information present. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and adjust credit limits based upon payment history and our assessment of the customer’s current credit worthiness. We continuously monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses based upon our historical experience and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that 

62
we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates in the future. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, additional allowances may be required.

We also record a provision for estimated sales returns and allowances on product and service related sales in the same period as the related revenues are recorded. These estimates are based on the specific facts and circumstances of particular orders, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. If the data we use to calculate these estimates do not properly reflect reserve requirements, then a change in the allowances would be made in the period in which such a determination is made and revenues in that period could be adversely affected.

Business Combinations

We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. Contingent consideration, which is not deemed to be linked to continuing employment, is recorded at fair value as measured on the date of acquisition. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections under various potential scenarios, which are generally probability weighted as to the outcome of each scenario. These cash flow projections are discounted with an appropriate risk adjusted rate. Quarterly until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is reassessed at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment and actual results are likely to differ from the amounts originally recorded.

The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimate of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. 

We also used the income approach, as described above, to determine the estimated fair value of certain other identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, customer relationships and contracts, and trade names. Developed technology represents patented and unpatented technology and know-how. Customer relationships represent established relationships with customers, which provide a ready channel for the sale of additional products and services. Trade names represent acquired company and product names.

With respect to property, plant and equipment, we estimate the fair value of these assets using a combination of the cost and market approaches, depending on the component. Generally, we apply the cost approach as the primary method in estimating the fair value of land and buildings as the market approach is less reliable based on potential significant differences between the property being valued and the potentially comparable sales of similar properties.

Intangible Assets and Goodwill

Intangible Assets

We amortize our intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be consumed. The economic pattern is based on undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization is recorded over the estimated useful lives ranging from 2 to 30 years. We review our intangible assets subject to amortization to determine if any adverse conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a change in the remaining useful life. If the carrying value of an asset exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, we will write-down the carrying value of the intangible asset to its fair value in the period identified. In assessing fair value, we must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and discount rates. If these estimates or related assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record impairment charges. We generally determine fair value based on the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. If the estimate of an intangible asset’s remaining useful life is changed, we will amortize the remaining carrying value of the intangible asset prospectively over the revised remaining useful life.

Goodwill

We test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that could indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate, operational performance of the business or key personnel, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter.

63
In performing the test, we utilize the two-step approach prescribed under ASC 350. The first step requires a comparison of the reporting unit’s carrying value to its fair value. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales and ratio comparisons of similar companies. We base the discount rate on the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC, of market participants. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we will perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill to its carrying value. The second step requires us to perform a hypothetical purchase price allocation as of the measurement date and estimate the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets. The fair value of intangible assets is determined as described above and is subject to significant judgment.

We conducted our fiscal 2015 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized discounted cash flows, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 28, 2015 and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of the reporting units had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for those reporting units. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of each of our reporting units been lower by 10%, all of our reporting units would still have passed Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test.

Since the fair value of our reporting units was determined by use of the DCF, and the key assumptions that drive the fair value in this model are the WACC, terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, significant judgment is applied in determining fair value. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, this would likely result in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if these assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair value of a reporting unit.

At September 26, 2015, we believe that all reporting units with goodwill aggregating $2.8 billion were not at risk of failing Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test based on our current forecasts.

We conducted our fiscal 2014 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized discounted cash flows, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 29, 2014 and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of the reporting units had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for those reporting units. 

We conducted our fiscal 2013 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We utilized discounted cash flows, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 30, 2013 and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing Step 1, all of the reporting units, except for our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit, which is within our Diagnostics reportable segment, had fair values exceeding their carrying values, and as such, Step 2 of the impairment test was not required for those reporting units.

In 2013, as a result of our company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process and a full re-evaluation of our existing product development efforts and cost structure performed in the fourth quarter, we reduced our short term and long term revenue forecasts and determined that indicators of impairment existed in our Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit. The Molecular Diagnostics reporting unit is primarily comprised of our Aptima business acquired in the Gen-Probe acquisition and the molecular diagnostics business acquired in the Third Wave acquisition. The updated forecast, which reflected pricing pressures, for revenue and profitability were lower than those expected at the time of the Gen-Probe acquisition.

In 2013, as a result, the fair value of this reporting unit was below its carrying value. We performed Step 2 of the impairment test, consistent with the procedures described above, and recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 billion. The basis of fair value for Molecular Diagnostics assumed the reporting unit would be purchased or sold in a taxable transaction, and the discount rate of 10% applied to the after-tax cash flows was relatively consistent with that used in our purchase accounting for the Gen-Probe acquisition. For illustrative purposes, had the fair value of Molecular Diagnostics been lower by 10%, the Company would have recorded an additional impairment charge of $195.4 million.

64
Revenue Recognition

We generate revenue from the sale of products, primarily medical imaging systems and diagnostic and surgical disposable products, and related services, which are primarily support and maintenance services on our medical imaging systems.

We recognize product revenue upon shipment provided that there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, there are no uncertainties regarding acceptance, the sales price is fixed or determinable, no right of return exists and collection of the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. Generally, our product arrangements for capital equipment sales, primarily in our Breast Health and Skeletal Health reporting segments, are multiple-element arrangements, including services, such as installation and training, and multiple products. In accordance with ASC 605-25, based on the terms and conditions of the product arrangements, we believe that these services and undelivered products can be accounted for separately from the delivered product element as our delivered products have value to our customers on a stand-alone basis. Accordingly, revenue for services not yet performed at the time of product shipment are deferred and recognized as such services are performed. The relative selling price of any undelivered products is also deferred at the time of shipment and recognized as revenue when these products are delivered. There is no customer right of return in our sales agreements.

Service revenues primarily consist of amounts recorded under service and maintenance contracts and repairs not covered under warranty, installation and training, and shipping and handling costs billed to customers. Service and maintenance contract revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the contract. Other service revenues are recognized as the services are performed.

For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, we record revenue as separate units of accounting if the delivered items have value to the customer on a stand-alone basis, and if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered items, the delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially within our control. Some of our products have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the product’s essential functionality. We determined that except for our CAD products and C-View product, the software element in our other products is incidental and not within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605, Software—Revenue Recognition. We determined that given the significance of the software component’s functionality to our CAD and C-View systems, which are sold by our Breast Health segment, these products are within the scope of the software revenue recognition rules. We evaluated the appropriate revenue recognition treatment of our other hardware products, including our Dimensions digital mammography systems, which have both software and non-software components that function together to deliver the products’ essential functionality (i.e., it is a tangible product), and determined they are not within the scope of ASC 985-605.

We are required to allocate revenue to multiple element arrangements based on the relative fair value of each element’s selling price. We typically determine the selling price of our products based on our best estimate of selling price, referred to as ESP, and services based on vendor-specific objective evidence of selling price, referred to as VSOE. We determine VSOE based on our normal pricing and discounting practices for the specific product or service when sold on a stand-alone basis. In determining VSOE, our policy requires a substantial majority of selling prices for a product or service to be within a reasonably narrow range. We also consider the class of customer, method of distribution, and the geographies into which our products and services are sold when determining VSOE. If VSOE cannot be established, which may occur in instances when a product or service has not been sold separately, stand-alone sales are too infrequent, or product pricing is not within a narrow range, we will generally establish the selling price using ESP to allocate arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would typically transact a stand-alone sale of the product or service. ESP is determined by considering a number of factors including our pricing policies, internal costs and gross margin objectives, method of distribution, information gathered from experience in customer negotiations, market research and information, recent technological trends, competitive landscape and geographies.

For those arrangements accounted for under the software revenue recognition rules, ASC 985-605 generally requires revenue earned on software arrangements involving multiple elements to be allocated to each element based on their relative VSOE of fair value. If VSOE does not exist for a delivered element, the residual method is applied in which the arrangement consideration is allocated to the undelivered elements based on their VSOE with the remaining consideration recognized as revenue for the delivered elements. For multiple-element software arrangements where VSOE of fair value of Post-Contract Customer Support, referred to as PCS, has been established, we recognize revenue using the residual method at the time all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.

As part of our Diagnostics reporting segment, we manufacture blood screening products according to demand schedules provided by our collaboration partner, Grifols. Our agreement provides that we share a portion of Grifols’s revenue from screening blood donations. Upon shipment to Grifols, we recognize blood screening product sales at an agreed upon fixed transfer price, which is not refundable, and record the related cost of products sold. Based on the terms of our collaboration agreement with Grifols, our ultimate share of the net revenue from sales to the end user in excess of the transfer price revenues 

65
recognized is not known until it is reported to us by Grifols. On a monthly basis, Grifols reports net revenue generated during the prior month and remits an additional corresponding net payment to us which we record as revenue at that time. This payment combined with the transfer price revenues previously recognized represents our ultimate share of net revenue under the agreement.

While the majority of our instruments are placed at customer sites, in certain instances, we sell instruments to our clinical diagnostics customers and record sales of these instruments upon delivery and customer acceptance. Prior to delivery, each instrument is tested to meet the Company’s specifications and the specifications of the FDA, and is shipped fully assembled. Customer acceptance of the Company’s clinical diagnostic instrument systems requires installation and training by our technical service personnel. Installation is a standard process consisting principally of uncrating, calibrating and testing the instrumentation. We sell our instruments to Grifols for use in blood screening and record these instrument sales upon delivery since Grifols is responsible for the placement, maintenance and repair of the units with its customers. 

Within our Diagnostics business and, to a lesser extent, our GYN Surgical business, we provide our instrumentation (for example, the ThinPrep Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, Panther and Tigris) and certain other hardware to customers without requiring them to purchase the equipment or enter into a lease. Instead, we recover the cost of providing the instrumentation and equipment in the amount we charge for our diagnostic tests and assays and other disposables. Customers enter into a customer usage agreement, and we install the equipment at customer sites and customers commit to purchasing minimum quantities of disposable products at a stated price over a defined contract term, which is typically between three and five years. Revenue is recognized over the term of the customer usage agreement as tests, assays and other disposable products are shipped or delivered, depending on the customer arrangement. 

Stock-Based Compensation

We recognize stock-based compensation expense associated with the granting of stock options, restricted stock units and performance stock units issued to our employees. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates to be used in calculating the grant-date fair value of stock options. We use a binomial lattice model to determine the fair value of our stock options. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of stock options including the advice of an outside valuation advisor and the advisor’s model. The model requires us to make estimates of the following assumptions:

Expected volatility—We are responsible for estimating volatility and have considered a number of factors, including third-party estimates, when estimating volatility. We currently use a combination of historical and implied volatility, which is weighted based on a number of factors.

Expected term—We use historical employee exercise and option expiration data to estimate the expected term assumption. We believe that this historical data is currently the best estimate of the expected term of a new option, and that generally, all of our employees exhibit similar exercise behavior.

Risk-free interest rate—The yield on zero-coupon U.S. Treasury securities for a period that is commensurate with the expected term assumption is used as the risk-free interest rate.

The amount of stock-based compensation expense recognized during a period is based on the value of the portion of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest. ASC 718, Stock Compensation, requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Based on an analysis of historical forfeitures, we have determined a specific forfeiture rate for certain employee groups and have applied forfeiture rates ranging from 0% to 7.0% as of September 26, 2015 depending on the specific employee group. This analysis is re-evaluated periodically and the forfeiture rate is adjusted as necessary. Ultimately, the actual expense recognized over the vesting period will only be for those awards that vest.

We granted performance stock units to members of our senior management team during fiscal 2014 and 2015. Each recipient of a performance stock unit is eligible to receive between zero and 200% of the target number of shares of our common stock at the end of three years provided our defined Return on Invested Capital, or ROIC, metrics are achieved. We recognize compensation expense ratably over the required service period based on an estimate of the probability that the measurement criteria will be achieved for a targeted number of shares. Our estimate of the number of shares that are probable of vesting is based on our estimate of ROIC over the respective time periods using our internal forecasts and projections. If there is a change in the estimate of the number of shares that are probable of vesting, we will cumulatively adjust compensation expense in the period that the change in estimate is made.

We recognized $59.3 million, $50.0 million and $52.3 million of stock-based compensation expense for employee equity awards in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. As of September 26, 2015, there was $22.8 million and $73.6 million 

66
of unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options and stock units, respectively, that we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of 3.4 years and 2.5 years, respectively.

Income Taxes

We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between our assets and liabilities financial reporting and taxes bases. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse.

We have recognized $1.16 billion in net deferred tax liabilities at September 26, 2015 and $1.34 billion at September 27, 2014. The liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions and debt. The tax assets relate primarily to net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation, and research credits. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. While we have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event we determine that we could realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of the net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination is made.

We had $154.7 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding interest, at September 26, 2015 and $137.0 million at September 27, 2014. At September 26, 2015, $74.9 million represents the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would result in a reduction of the Company’s effective tax rate. In the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that we will reduce our unrecognized tax benefits by $2.0 to $4.0 million due to statute of limitations expiring and potentially favorably settling with taxing authorities.

In the ordinary course of global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. While we consider our estimates reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome will not be different than amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In July 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance under Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 330, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory. The new guidance requires inventory to be measured at the lower of cost and net realizable value, which is defined as the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. This new guidance is effective for our first quarter of fiscal year 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The guidance must be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this requirement on our consolidated financial statements.

In April 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2015-03, Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs. This guidance intends to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs and more closely align the presentation of debt issuance costs under U.S. GAAP to IFRS standards. This guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015, and is applicable to us in fiscal 2017. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating this guidance, but do not anticipate that adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In February 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-02, Consolidation (Topic 810): Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis. This guidance focuses on a reporting company’s consolidation evaluation to determine whether certain legal entities should be consolidated. This guidance is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015, and is applicable to us in fiscal 2017. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. We are currently evaluating this guidance, but do not anticipate that adoption of this guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entity's Ability to Continue as a Going Concern. ASU 2014-15 requires management to evaluate, at each annual or interim reporting period, whether there are conditions or events that exist that raise substantial doubt about an entity's ability to continue as a going concern within one year after the date the financial statements are issued and provide related disclosures. ASU 2014-15 is effective for annual 

67
periods ending after December 15, 2016 and is applicable to us in fiscal 2018. Earlier application is permitted. The adoption of ASU 2014-15 is not expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures.

In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 660), which provides guidance for revenue recognition. This ASU is applicable to any entity that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets. ASU 2014-09 will supersede the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance. The standard’s core principle is that a company will recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In doing so, companies will need to use more judgment and make more estimates than under current U.S. GAAP. These judgments may include identifying performance obligations in the contract, estimating the amount of variable consideration to include in the transaction price and allocating the transaction price to each separate performance obligation. On July 9, 2015, the FASB voted in favor of delaying the effective date of the new standard by one year, with early adoption permitted as of the original effective date. ASU 2014-09 is effective prospectively for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, which is our fiscal 2019. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2014-09 on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk