Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Financial Instruments, Other Financial Instruments, and Derivative Commodity Instruments. Financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, publicly-traded equity securities, cost-method equity investments, mutual funds, interest rate cap agreements, insurance contracts and related deferred compensation plan liabilities, accounts payable and debt obligations. Except for our outstanding convertible notes and 2022 Senior Notes, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. As of September 26, 2015, we have $1.02 billion of principal of convertible notes outstanding, which are comprised of our 2010 Notes with a principal of $150.0 million, our 2012 Notes with a principal of $500.0 million, and our 2013 Notes with a principal of $370.0 million. The convertible notes are recorded net of the unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. The fair value of our 2010 Notes, 2012 Notes and 2013 Notes as of September 26, 2015 was approximately $264.1 million, $688.2 million and $471.8 million, respectively. The fair value of our 2022 Senior Notes was approximately $1.03 billion. Amounts outstanding under our Credit Agreement aggregating $1.66 billion aggregate principal as of September 26, 2015 are subject to variable rates of interest based on current market rates, and as such, we believe the carrying amount of these obligations approximates fair value.

Primary Market Risk Exposures. Our primary market risk exposure is in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. We incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our convertible notes, 2022 Senior Notes and Credit Agreement. The convertible notes and 2022 Senior Notes have fixed interest rates. Borrowings under our Credit Agreement currently bear interest at the Eurocurrency Rate (i.e., Libor) plus the applicable margin of 1.75% per annum.

As of September 26, 2015, there was $1.66 billion of aggregate principal outstanding under the Credit Agreement comprised of $1.49 billion under the Term Loan and $175.0 million under the Revolver. Since these debt obligations are variable rate instruments, our interest expense associated with these instruments is subject to change. A 10% adverse movement (increase in Libor rate) would increase annual interest expense by less than $1 million due to the low current interest rate environment. During fiscal 2015, we entered into multiple interest rate cap agreements to help mitigate the interest rate volatility associated with the variable rate interest on the amounts outstanding. The critical terms of the interest rate caps were designed to mirror the terms of the Libor-based borrowings under the Credit Agreement and Prior Credit Agreement, and therefore the interest rate caps are highly effective at offsetting the cash flows being hedged. We designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges of the variability of the Libor-based interest payments on $1.0 billion of principal over a 3-year period, which ends on December 31, 2017.

The return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors.

We conduct business worldwide and maintain sales and service offices outside the United States as well as manufacturing facilities in Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Our international sales are denominated in a number of currencies, primarily the Euro, U.S. dollar, UK Pound and Renminbi. The expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our Costa Rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the foreign 

68
currency rates could affect our sales, cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency.

We believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the Euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against the Euro. Our expenses, denominated in Euros, are positively affected when the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro and adversely affected when the U.S. dollar weakens. However, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. We do not believe a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in foreign currencies that we transact in would not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred net foreign exchange gains (losses) of $(3.0) million, $(1.8) million and $0.5 million, respectively.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data