PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

References in this report to “we”, “us” and “our” are to Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the “Company”) and one or more of its subsidiaries, as the context requires.

GENERAL

The Company is a global professional services firm offering clients advice and solutions in risk, strategy and people. It is the parent company of a number of leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, the management, economic and brand consultancy. With approximately 57,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue of approximately $13 billion, the Company provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 130 countries.

The Company conducts business through two segments:

•Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. We conduct business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

•Consulting includes Health, Retirement, Talent and Investments consulting services and products, and specialized management, economic and brand consulting services. We conduct business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

We describe our current segments in further detail below. We provide financial information about our segments in our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

OUR BUSINESSES

RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES

The Risk and Insurance Services segment generated approximately 54% of the Company's total revenue in 2014 and employs approximately 30,800 colleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

MARSH

Marsh is a world leader in delivering risk and insurance services and solutions to its clients. From its founding in 1871 to the present day, Marsh has provided thought leadership and innovation for clients and the insurance industry, introducing and promoting the concept and practice of client representation through brokerage, the discipline of risk management, the globalization of insurance and risk management services and many other innovative tools and service platforms.

Marsh generated approximately 45% of the Company's total revenue in 2014. Approximately 28,400 Marsh colleagues provide risk management, risk consulting, insurance broking, alternative risk financing, and insurance program management services to a wide range of businesses, government entities, professional service organizations and individuals in more than 130 countries.

Marsh's clients vary by size, industry, geography and risk exposures. Marsh is organized to serve clients efficiently and effectively, delivering solutions tailored to the level of complexity of risk and geographic footprint and matched to clients' buying styles.

Insurance Broking and Risk Consulting

In its main insurance broking and risk consulting business, Marsh employs a team approach to address clients' risk management and insurance needs. Each client relationship is coordinated by a client executive or client manager who draws from the many industry and risk specialties within Marsh to assemble the resources needed to assist clients in analyzing, measuring and managing their various risks. Product and service offerings include program design and placement, post-placement program support and administration, claims support and advocacy, alternative risk strategies, and a wide array of risk analysis and risk management consulting services. Within Marsh, there are significant specialties or 

1

businesses in addition to its main brokerage operations that serve as an important part of the overall capabilities it provides to its broad range of clients. These include Marsh & McLennan Agency; Schinnerer Group; Sponsored Programs; Private Client Services; and Torrent Technologies.

Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices.  In further support of the strategic, operational and risk management objectives of its core brokerage clients, Marsh provides consultative advice, brokerage and claims advocacy services through dedicated practices in the areas listed below. For both large and mid-size organizations, colleagues in these practices apply their experience and working knowledge of clients' industry sectors, and of the unique environments in which they operate, to facilitate the requisite breadth of coverage and to reduce the cost of risk.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Global Risk and Specialties

In 2014, the management of Marsh Global Analytics, Marsh Risk Consulting, Captive Solutions, CS STARS, Insurer Consulting Group, Multinational Client Service, Bowring Marsh and Marsh's Specialty Practices were combined into one business unit called Global Risk and Specialties.

Marsh Global Analytics helps organizations use data and analytical tools to better understand risks, make more informed decisions, support the implementation of innovative solutions and strategies, and ultimately reduce costs. The principal tools employed include data from Marsh’s extensive Global Benchmarking Portal, statistical and financial analyses, decision modeling, catastrophic loss modeling, and the Marsh Analytical Platform. 

Marsh Risk Consulting (MRC) is a global organization comprised of specialists dedicated to providing clients with advice and solutions across a comprehensive range of risk issues. MRC helps clients identify exposures, assess critical business functions and evaluate existing risk treatment practices and strategies. MRC provides client services in four main areas of exposure: 

•Property Risk Consulting: Delivers a range of property risk engineering and loss control identification, assessment, and mitigation consulting solutions.

•Workforce Strategies: Supports clients' efforts to reduce workers' compensation loss costs, increase the quality, safety, and efficiency of operations, and develop and implement sustainable safety and health management systems.

2

•Financial Advisory, Claims, Litigation Support: Provides a range of services, including forensic accounting, complex claim consulting and management, claim accounting preparation, mass tort consulting, and construction delay and dispute consulting.

•Strategic Risk Consulting: Provides a range of services, including crisis management, reputational risk, and enterprise risk and resiliency services.

Captive Solutions. Operating in 42 captive domiciles, along with consulting expertise residing in Marsh brokerage offices worldwide, the Captive Solutions practice serves more than 1,250 captive facilities, including single-parent captives, reinsurance pools, risk retention groups and others. The practice includes the Captive Advisory group, a consulting arm that performs captive feasibility studies and helps to structure and implement captive solutions; Captive Management, an industry leader in managing captive facilities and in providing administrative, consultative and insurance-related services; and the Actuarial Services group, comprised of credentialed actuaries and supporting actuarial analysts.

CS STARS serves the needs of risk management professionals, as well as insurance carriers and third-party administrators, through integrated technology, analytics and data services solutions across risk, safety and claims management. CS Stars enables its customers to analyze trends, gain industry insights, optimize decision-making, and reduce costs across the entire risk lifecycle.

Insurer Consulting Group. Marsh provides consulting, data analytics and other services to insurers. Through Marsh's patented electronic platform, MarketConnect, and through other data analyses, Marsh provides to insurers individualized preference setting and risk identification capabilities, as well as detailed performance data and metrics. Insurer consulting teams review performance metrics and preferences with insurers. Marsh's Insurer Consulting services are designed to improve the product offerings available to Marsh’s clients, assist insurers in identifying new opportunities, and enhance insurers’ operational efficiency. The scope and nature of the services vary by insurer and by geography.

Multinational Client Service (MCS) is focused on delivering service excellence and insurance solutions to multinational clients. MCS provides risk management programs with a service platform that comprises a combination of proprietary tools and technology and specialized resources. MCS provides global expertise and an intimate knowledge of local markets, helping clients navigate local regulatory environments and address the worldwide risk issues that confront them.

Bowring Marsh is an international placement broker for property and casualty risks. Bowring Marsh utilizes placement expertise in major international insurance market hubs, including Bermuda, Brazil, China, Dubai, Dublin, Hong Kong, London, Madrid, Miami, Singapore, South Korea, Tokyo and Zurich, and an integrated global network to secure advantageous terms and conditions for its clients throughout the world.

Marsh & McLennan Agency.

Established in 2008, Marsh & McLennan Agency ("MMA") services are targeted to customers who seek professional advice on program structure, market knowledge, experience and expertise in their industry, competitive prices, and local resources and service professionals. MMA offers a broad range of commercial property, casualty and surety products and services, personal lines, as well as a broad range of solutions for employee health and benefits, retirement and administration needs, and life insurance/estate planning to clients through a dedicated sales and service force in retail locations.

Schinnerer Group. 

The Schinnerer Group's operations are comprised of Victor O. Schinnerer & Co. in the U.S. and ENCON Group Inc. in Canada. As one of the largest underwriting managers of professional liability and specialty insurance programs in the United States, Victor O. Schinnerer & Co. provides risk management and insurance solutions to clients through licensed brokers. ENCON Group Inc., a leading managing general agent in Canada, offers professional liability and construction insurance, as well as group and retiree benefits programs for individuals, professionals, organizations and businesses, through a national network of licensed insurance brokers and plan advisors.

3

Sponsored Programs; Private Client Services.

Marsh operates business units that focus on affinity/program marketing and administration opportunities and high net worth individual personal lines insurance. Sponsored Programs is an affinity/program business that customizes commercial insurance programs and other business management solutions to meet the needs of franchisors, independent contractors, and other networks of businesses and their affiliates. Private Client Services provides sales and service to high net worth individuals, families and their advisors and family offices, focusing on delivery of property and casualty risk management solutions.

Torrent Technologies.

On November 17, 2014, Marsh acquired Torrent Technologies, Inc., a leading service provider to Write Your Own (WYO) insurers participating in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Remaining headquartered in Kalispell, Montana, Torrent's employees have combined with Marsh's existing flood insurance specialists to create a Flood Center of Excellence, offering a comprehensive suite of flood insurance products and services. Torrent and Marsh also have demonstrated capabilities in the non-NFIP retail flood space and in providing other non-NFIP flood insurance administration services to mortgage lenders and other businesses.

GUY CARPENTER

Guy Carpenter generated approximately 9% of the Company's total revenue in 2014. Approximately 2,400 Guy Carpenter professionals help clients with a combination of specialized reinsurance broking expertise, strategic advisory services, and analytics. Guy Carpenter teams create and execute reinsurance and risk management solutions for clients worldwide, by providing risk assessment analytics, actuarial services, highly specialized product knowledge and trading relationships with reinsurance markets. Client services also include contract and claims management and fiduciary accounting.

Acting as a broker or intermediary on all classes of reinsurance, Guy Carpenter places two main types of property and casualty reinsurance: treaty reinsurance, which involves the transfer of a portfolio of risks; and facultative reinsurance, which entails the transfer of part or all of the coverage provided by a single insurance policy.

Guy Carpenter provides reinsurance services in a broad range of specialty practice areas, including: agriculture; alternative risk transfer (such as group-based captives and insurance pools); aviation & aerospace; casualty clash (losses involving multiple policies or insureds); construction and engineering; credit, bond & political risk; excess & umbrella; general casualty; life, accident & health; marine and energy; medical professional liability; professional liability; program manager solutions; property; retrocessional reinsurance (reinsurance between reinsurers); surety (reinsurance of surety bonds and other financial guarantees); terror risk and workers compensation.

Guy Carpenter also offers clients alternatives to traditional reinsurance, including industry loss warranties and, through its licensed affiliates, capital markets alternatives such as transferring catastrophe risk through the issuance of risk-linked securities. GC Securities, the Guy Carpenter division of MMC Securities Corp. and MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, respectively, offers corporate finance solutions, including mergers & acquisitions and private debt and equity capital raising, and capital markets-based risk transfer solutions that complement Guy Carpenter's strong industry relationships, analytical capabilities and reinsurance expertise.

In addition, Guy Carpenter provides its clients with numerous reinsurance-related services, such as actuarial, enterprise risk management, financial and regulatory consulting, portfolio analysis and advice on the efficient use of capital. Guy Carpenter's GC Analytics® unit serves as a local resource that helps clients better understand and quantify the uncertainties inherent in their businesses. Working in close partnership with Guy Carpenter account executives, GC Analytics specialists can help support clients' critical decisions in numerous areas, including reinsurance utilization, catastrophe exposure portfolio management, new product/market development, rating agency, regulatory and account impacts, loss reserve risk, capital adequacy and return on capital.

4

Compensation for Services in Risk and Insurance Services

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services through commissions and fees. Commission rates and fees vary in amount and can depend upon a number of factors, including the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer selected, the capacity in which the broker acts, and negotiations with clients. In addition to compensation from its clients, Marsh also receives compensation from insurance companies. This compensation includes, among other things, payment for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions in parts of its operations. 

Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk and Insurance Services segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.

CONSULTING

The Company's consulting segment generated approximately 46% of the Company's total revenue in 2014 and employs approximately 24,300 colleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

MERCER

Mercer is a global consulting leader in Health, Retirement, Investments and Talent. Mercer helps clients around the world advance the health, wealth and performance of their most vital asset - their people. Mercer's approximately 20,600 employees are based in more than 40 countries. Clients include a majority of the companies in the Fortune 1000 and FTSE 100, as well as medium- and small-market organizations. Mercer generated approximately 34% of the Company's total revenue in 2014.

Mercer operates in the following areas:

Health. In its Health & Benefits business, Mercer assists public and private sector employers in the design, management and administration of employee health care programs; compliance with local benefits-related regulations; and the establishment of health and welfare benefits coverage for employees. Mercer provides a range of advice and solutions to clients, which, depending on the engagement, may include: total health management strategies; global health brokerage solutions; vendor performance and audit; life and disability management; and measurement of healthcare provider performance. These services are provided through traditional fee-based consulting as well as commission-based brokerage services in connection with the selection of insurance companies and healthcare providers. Mercer also provides products and solutions for private active and retiree exchanges in the United States, including its Mercer MarketplaceSM private exchange.

Retirement. Mercer provides a wide range of strategic and compliance-related retirement services and solutions to corporate, governmental and institutional clients. Mercer assists clients worldwide in the design, governance and risk management of defined benefit, defined contribution and hybrid retirement plans. Mercer's approach to retirement services enables clients to consider the benefits, accounting, funding and investment aspects of plan design and management in the context of business objectives and governance requirements.

Investments. Mercer provides investment consulting and other services to the sponsors of pension funds, foundations, endowments, other investors and wealth management companies in more than 40 countries. Mercer's services cover all stages of the institutional investment process, from strategy, structure and implementation to ongoing portfolio management. 

Mercer provides delegated investment solutions (fiduciary management) to institutional investors including retirement plans, endowments and foundations and wealth managers, primarily through investment in manager of manager funds sponsored and managed by Mercer. Solutions include services for defined benefit and defined contribution plans utilizing our expertise in liability-driven investment and actuarial techniques, and personal wealth solutions. Mercer offers a diverse range of solutions to meet a full spectrum of risk/return preferences and manages investment vehicles across a range of investment 

5

strategies for clients globally. As of December 31, 2014, Mercer had assets under management of $116 billion worldwide.

Mercer also provides benefits administration services to clients globally as part of its Retirement, Health and Investments businesses. Mercer's administration offerings include total benefits outsourcing; total retirement outsourcing, including administration and delivery for retirement benefits; and stand-alone services for defined benefit administration, defined contribution administration, health benefits administration and flexible benefits programs.

Talent. Mercer's talent businesses advise organizations on the engagement, management and rewarding of employees; the design of executive remuneration programs; and improvement of human resource (HR) effectiveness. Through proprietary survey data and decision support tools, Mercer's Information Products Solutions business provides clients with human capital information and analytical capabilities to improve strategic human capital decision making. Mercer's Communications business helps clients plan and implement HR programs and other organizational changes designed to maximize employee engagement, drive desired employee behaviors and achieve improvements in business performance.

OLIVER WYMAN GROUP

With approximately 3,700 professionals and offices in 25 countries, Oliver Wyman Group delivers advisory services to clients through three operating units, each of which is a leader in its field: Oliver Wyman; Lippincott; and NERA Economic Consulting. Oliver Wyman Group generated approximately 13% of the Company's total revenue in 2014.

Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consulting firm. Oliver Wyman's consultants specialize by industry and functional area, allowing clients to benefit from both deep sector knowledge and specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management and organization transformation. Industry groups include:

•Automotive

•Aviation, Aerospace & Defense

•Business Services

•Communications, Media & Technology

•Distribution & Wholesale

•Energy

•Financial services (including corporate and institutional banking, insurance, wealth and asset management, public policy, and retail and business banking)

•Health & Life Sciences

•Industrial products

•Retail & consumer products

•Surface transportation

Oliver Wyman overlays its industry knowledge with expertise in the following functional specializations:

•Actuarial. Oliver Wyman offers actuarial consulting services to public and private enterprises, self-insured group organizations, insurance companies, government entities, insurance regulatory agencies and other organizations. 

•Business & Organization Transformation. Oliver Wyman advises organizations undergoing or anticipating profound change or facing strategic discontinuities or risks by providing guidance on leading the institution, structuring its operations, improving its performance, and building its organizational capabilities.

•Corporate Finance & Restructuring. Oliver Wyman provides an array of capabilities to support investment decision making by private equity funds, hedge funds, sovereign wealth funds, investment banks, commercial banks, arrangers, strategic investors, and insurers.

•Digital. Oliver Wyman has a dedicated cross-industry team helping clients to capitalize on the opportunities created by digital technology and address the strategic threats.

6

•Marketing & Sales. Oliver Wyman advises leading firms in the areas of offer/pricing optimization; product/service portfolio management; product innovation; marketing spend optimization; value-based customer management; and sales and distribution model transformation.

•Oliver Wyman Labs. Oliver Wyman applies innovative approaches to technology to drive business impact for its clients. The mission of OW Labs is to help clients to unleash the power of the information they already have or could capture - essentially to become knowledge-powered businesses - and through that to drive competitive advantage and sustained impact.

•Operations & Technology. Oliver Wyman offers market-leading IT organization design, IT economics management, Lean Six Sigma principles and methodologies, and sourcing expertise to clients across a broad range of industries.

•Risk Management. Oliver Wyman works with chief financial officers, chief risk officers, and other senior finance and risk management executives of corporations and financial institutions. Oliver Wyman provides a range of services that provide effective, customized solutions to the challenges presented by the evolving roles, needs and priorities of these individuals and organizations.

•Strategy. Oliver Wyman is a leading provider of corporate strategy advice and solutions in the areas of growth strategy and corporate portfolio; non-organic growth and M&A; performance improvement; business design and innovation; corporate center and shared services; and strategic planning.

•Sustainability Center. The Sustainability Center at Oliver Wyman supports leading companies and governments around the world in their efforts to foster economic growth while encouraging more responsible use of natural resources and environmental protection. 

•Value Sourcing. Oliver Wyman helps organizations with optimization of purchasing processes or organization; cost monitoring; low-cost country sourcing; supply chain management; strategic sourcing; sequenced supply; part kitting; and with transforming procurement into a strong competitive advantage, delivering sustained value. 

Lippincott is a brand strategy and design consulting firm that advises corporations around the world in a variety of industries on corporate branding, identity and image. Lippincott has helped create some of the world's most recognized brands.

NERA Economic Consulting provides economic analysis and advice to public and private entities to achieve practical solutions to highly complex business and legal issues arising from competition, regulation, public policy, strategy, finance and litigation. NERA professionals operate worldwide assisting clients including corporations, governments, law firms, regulatory agencies, trade associations, and international agencies. NERA's specialized practice areas include: antitrust; securities; complex commercial litigation; energy; environmental economics; network industries; intellectual property; product liability and mass torts; and transfer pricing.

Compensation for Services in Consulting

Mercer and the Oliver Wyman Group businesses are compensated for advice and services primarily through fees paid by clients. Mercer's Health & Benefits business is compensated through commissions for the placement of insurance contracts (comprising more than half of the revenue in the Health & Benefits business) and consulting fees. Mercer's delegated Investment Management business and certain of Mercer's defined contribution administration services are compensated typically through fees based on assets under administration and/or management. For a majority of the funds, revenue received from Mercer's investment management clients as sub-advisor fees is reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP, on a gross basis rather than a net basis. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in the Consulting segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.

7

REGULATION

The Company's activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under United States federal and state laws, as well as laws of other countries in which the Company's subsidiaries operate. See Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below for a discussion of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our businesses.

Risk and Insurance Services. While laws and regulations vary from location to location, every state of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions require insurance market intermediaries and related service providers (such as insurance brokers, agents and consultants, reinsurance brokers and managing general agents) to hold an individual and/or company license from a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization. Some jurisdictions issue licenses only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities; in those instances, if the Company has no licensed subsidiary, it may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in such jurisdiction. Such arrangements are subject to an internal review and approval process. Licensing of reinsurance intermediaries is generally less rigorous compared to that of insurance brokers, and most jurisdictions require only corporate reinsurance intermediary licenses.

The Insurance Mediation Directive was adopted by the United Kingdom and 26 other European Union Member States in 2005. Its implementation gave powers to the Financial Services Authority ("FSA"), the United Kingdom regulator at the time, to expand their responsibilities in line with the Financial Services and Markets Act, the result of which was the regulation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries. The enhanced regulatory regime effected a licensing system based on an assessment of factors which included professional competence, financial capacity and the requirement to hold professional indemnity insurance. In April 2013, the FSA was superseded by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). In April 2014, the FCA’s responsibilities were expanded further to include the regulation of credit activities for consumers. This included the broking of premium finance to consumers who wished to spread the cost of their insurance. In April 2015, the FCA will also obtain their concurrent competition powers enabling them to enforce the prohibitions on anti-competitive behavior in relation to financial services.

Insurance authorities in the United States and certain other jurisdictions in which the Company's subsidiaries do business, including the FCA in the United Kingdom, also have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations typically provide for segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them, and generally apply to both the insurance and reinsurance business. The FCA rules which protect client assets and client money are currently being reviewed by the FCA with changes intended to provide enhanced protection to client funds expected in the second quarter of 2015.

Certain of the Company's Risk and Insurance Services activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment, securities and futures licensing authorities. In the United States, Marsh and Guy Carpenter use the services of MMC Securities Corp., a broker-dealer, investment adviser and introducing broker, registered in the U.S. with the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC") and a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), the National Futures Association and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC"), primarily in connection with investment banking-related services relating to insurance-linked and alternative risk financing transactions. Also in the United States, Marsh uses the services of NIA Securities, LLC, a U.S. registered broker-dealer and member of FINRA and SIPC. In the United Kingdom, Marsh and Guy Carpenter utilize the expertise of MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, which is authorized and regulated by the FCA to provide advice on securities and investments, including mergers & acquisitions in the European Union. MMC Securities Corp., MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, NIA Securities, LLC, and Marsh Investment Services Limited are indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.

In some jurisdictions, insurance-related taxes may be due either directly from clients or from the insurance broker. In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the client for payment.

Consulting. Certain of Mercer's retirement-related consulting and investment services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries. In addition, the trustee services, investment services (including advice to persons, institutions and other entities on the investment of pension assets 

8

and assumption of discretionary investment management responsibilities) and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are also subject to investment and securities regulations in various jurisdictions, including the SEC, the Department of Labor and the CFTC in the United States, the FCA in the United Kingdom, the Central Bank of Ireland, and the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. In the United States, Mercer provides investment services through Mercer Investment Management, Inc. and Mercer Investment Consulting, Inc., each a registered investment adviser. Mercer Trust Company, a New Hampshire chartered trust bank, provides services for Mercer’s benefits administration and investment management business in the United States. The benefits insurance consulting and brokerage services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to the same licensing requirements and regulatory oversight as the insurance market intermediaries described above regarding our Risk and Insurance Services businesses. Mercer uses the services of MMC Securities Corp. with the provision of certain retirement and employee benefit services. Oliver Wyman Group uses the services of MMC Securities Corp. (in the United States) and MMC Securities (Europe) Limited (in the European Union), primarily in connection with corporate finance advisory services.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

The Company faces strong competition in all of its businesses from providers of similar products and services, including competition with regard to identifying and pursuing acquisition candidates. The Company also encounters strong competition throughout its businesses from both public corporations and private firms in attracting and retaining qualified employees. In addition to the discussion below, see “Risks Relating to the Company Generally-Competitive Risks,” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

Risk and Insurance Services. The Company's combined insurance and reinsurance services businesses are global in scope. The principal bases upon which our insurance and reinsurance 

businesses compete include the complexity, range, quality and cost of the services and products offered to clients. The Company encounters strong competition from other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market, distribute and service their insurance and reinsurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms, consultants and web search engines, that provide risk-related services and products or alternatives to traditional brokerage services. 

Certain insureds and groups of insureds have established programs of self insurance (including captive insurance companies) as a supplement or alternative to third-party insurance, thereby reducing in some cases their need for insurance placements. Certain insureds also obtain coverage directly from insurance providers. There are also many other providers of managing general agency, affinity programs and private client services, including specialized firms, insurance companies and other institutions.

Consulting. The Company's consulting and HR outsourcing businesses face strong competition from other privately and publicly held worldwide and national companies, as well as regional and local firms. These businesses compete generally on the basis of the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. Competitors include independent consulting and outsourcing firms, as well as consulting and outsourcing operations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms.

Mercer's investments business faces competition from many sources, including multi-manager services offered by other investment consulting firms and financial institutions. In many cases, clients have the option of handling the services provided by Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group internally, without assistance from outside advisors.

Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic Area of Operation.

Financial information relating to the types of services provided by the Company and the geographic areas of its operations is incorporated herein by reference to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

9

Employees

As of December 31, 2014, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 57,000 people worldwide, including approximately 30,800 in risk and insurance services, 24,300 in consulting, and 1,700 individuals at the parent-company level.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Company’s Board of Directors. The following individuals are the executive officers of the Company:

Peter J. Beshar, age 53, is Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Marsh & McLennan Companies. In addition to managing the Company's Legal function, Mr. Beshar also oversees the Company's Government Relations, Risk Management and Communications groups. Before joining Marsh & McLennan Companies in November 2004, Mr. Beshar was a Litigation Partner in the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mr. Beshar joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in 1995 after serving as an Assistant Attorney General in the New York Attorney General's office and as the Special Assistant to Cyrus Vance in connection with the peace negotiations in the former Yugoslavia.

J. Michael Bischoff, age 67, is the Company's Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bischoff has held a number of senior financial management positions with Marsh & McLennan Companies since joining the Company in 1982. In his most recent role as Vice President, Corporate Finance, Mr. Bischoff was responsible for leading and directing the Company's Corporate Development, Mergers & Acquisitions, Treasury and Investor Relations functions. His prior experience was with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

E. Scott Gilbert, age 59, is Senior Vice President and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. In addition to managing the Company's Risk and Compliance function, Mr. Gilbert also oversees the Company's Business Resiliency Management, Global Security and Global Technology Infrastructure groups. Prior to joining Marsh & McLennan Companies in January 2005, he had been the Chief Compliance Counsel of the General Electric Company since September 2004. Prior thereto, he was Counsel, Litigation and Legal Policy at GE. Between 1986 and 1992, when he joined GE, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York.

Daniel S. Glaser, age 54, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Prior to assuming this role in January 2013, Mr. Glaser served as Group President and Chief Operating Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies from April 2011 through December 2012, with strategic and operational oversight of both the Risk and Insurance Services and the Consulting segments of the Company. Mr. Glaser rejoined Marsh in December 2007 as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh Inc. after serving in senior positions in commercial insurance and insurance brokerage in the United States, Europe, and the Middle East. He began his career at Marsh over 30 years ago. Mr. Glaser was named Chairman of the Federal Advisory Committee on Insurance (FACI) in August 2014. FACI, which comprises experts from business, academia and consumer advocacy groups, as well as state insurance regulators, was formed in 2011 to provide advice to the Federal Insurance Office. He also serves on the International Advisory Board of BritishAmerican Business and is a member of the Board of Trustees for The Institutes (American Institute for CPCU), the Insurance Information Institute and Ohio Wesleyan University.

Laurie Ledford, age 57, is the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Ms. Ledford is responsible for the firm's overall human capital and talent strategy and the delivery of human resources services to all our colleagues worldwide. Prior to her current role, Ms. Ledford served as Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) for Marsh Inc. Ms. Ledford joined Marsh in 2000 and was named CHRO in 2006, after having served as Senior Human Resources Director for Marsh's International Specialty Operations. Her prior experience was with Citibank and NationsBank.

Scott McDonald, age 48, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Oliver Wyman Group, a position he assumed in January 2014. From 2012 to 2014, Mr. McDonald was President of Oliver Wyman. Previously, Mr. McDonald was the Managing Partner of Oliver Wyman's Financial Services practice and has held a number of senior positions, including the Global head of the Corporate & Institutional Banking practice. 

10

Mr. McDonald has 20 years of experience in financial services consulting. Before joining Oliver Wyman in 1995, he was an M&A investment banker with RBC Dominion Securities in Toronto.

Alexander S. Moczarski, age 59, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Guy Carpenter. In addition, Mr. Moczarski is Chairman of Marsh & McLennan Companies International. In this role, Mr. Moczarski oversees the Company's international strategy, as well as its group of Country Corporate Officers located in regions around the world. Prior to being named Guy Carpenter CEO in April 2011, Mr. Moczarski was President and CEO of the International Division of Marsh. Previously, he was CEO of Marsh Inc.’s Europe, Middle East and Africa region. While at Marsh, Mr. Moczarski held several other roles, including President and CEO of the firm’s International Specialty Operations and Region Head for the Latin America and Caribbean Region. Before joining Marsh in 1993, Mr. Moczarski worked for AIG for nearly 15 years, most recently as CEO of the firm’s operations in Argentina and Chile.

Julio A. Portalatin, age 55, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer. Prior to joining Mercer in February 2012, Mr. Portalatin was the President and CEO of Chartis Growth Economies, and Senior Vice President, American International Group (AIG). In that role, he had responsibility for operations in Asia Pacific, South Asia, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Central Europe. Mr. Portalatin began his career with AIG in 1993 and thereafter held a number of key leadership roles, including President of the Worldwide Accident & Health Division at American International Underwriters (AIU) from 2002-2007. From 2007-2010, he served as President and CEO of Chartis Europe S.A. and Continental European Region, based in Paris, before becoming President and CEO of Chartis Emerging Markets. Prior to joining AIG/Chartis, Mr. Portalatin spent 12 years with Allstate Insurance Company in various executive product underwriting, distribution and marketing positions.

Peter Zaffino, age 48, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh. Prior to being named Marsh CEO in 2011, Mr. Zaffino was President and Chief Executive Officer of Guy Carpenter, a position he assumed in early 2008. Previously, he was an Executive Vice President of Guy Carpenter and had held a number of senior positions, including Head of Guy Carpenter's U.S. Treaty Operations and Head of the firm's Global Specialty Practices. Mr. Zaffino has over 25 years of experience in the Insurance and Reinsurance industry. Prior to joining Guy Carpenter in 2001, he held several senior positions, most recently serving in an executive role with a GE Capital portfolio company.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company is subject to the informational reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the Exchange Act, the Company files with the SEC annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The Company makes these reports and any amendments to these reports available free of charge through its website, www.mmc.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, like the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.

The Company also posts on its website the following documents with respect to corporate governance:

•Guidelines for Corporate Governance;

•Code of Conduct, The Greater Good;

•Procedures for Reporting Complaints and Concerns Regarding Accounting Matters; and

•the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee and Directors and Governance Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors.

All of the above documents are available in printed form to any Company stockholder upon request. The information on our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this report.

Item 1A. Risk Factors