Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

General

Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the “Company”) is a global professional services firm offering clients advice and solutions in risk, strategy and people. It is the parent company of a number of the world’s leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisors; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, the management, economic and brand consultancy. With approximately 57,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue of approximately $13 billion, the Company provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 130 countries.

The Company conducts business through two segments:

•Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. We conduct business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

•Consulting includes Health, Retirement, Talent and Investments consulting services and products, and specialized management, economic and brand consulting services. We conduct business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

We describe the primary sources of revenue and categories of expense for each segment below, in our discussion of segment financial results. A reconciliation of segment operating income to total operating income is included in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II Item 8 in this report. The accounting policies used for each segment are the same as those used for the consolidated financial statements.

This Management's Discussion & Analysis ("MD&A") contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See “Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” at the outset of this report. 

Consolidated Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

26

Consolidated operating income increased 11% to $2.3 billion in 2014 compared with $2.1 billion in 2013. This reflects the combined impact of a 6% increase in revenue and a 5% increase in expense.

Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $88 million or 6% in 2014 compared with 2013. Revenue increased 5%, or 3% on an underlying basis, to $6.9 billion in 2014, reflecting underlying revenue growth of 4% at Marsh and 2% at Guy Carpenter, while expenses increased 5%, or 3% on an underlying basis. 

Consulting operating income increased $151 million or 18% to $996 million in 2014 compared with 2013, reflecting a 6% increase in revenue and a 4% increase in expense. Mercer and Oliver Wyman recorded underlying revenue growth of 3% and 15%, respectively, in 2014 as compared to 2013.

The Company recorded expenses related to the early extinguishment of debt of $137 million in 2014 and $24 million in 2013.

Consolidated operating income increased 14% to $2.1 billion in 2013 compared with $1.8 billion in 2012 driven by a 3% increase in revenue on both a reported and underlying basis, with growth in each operating company. Expenses increased 1% on both a reported and underlying basis as the Company continues its efforts to manage expenses and improve operating efficiency. 

Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $87 million or 7% in 2013 compared with 2012. Revenue increased 4%, or 3% on an underlying basis, to $6.6 billion in 2013 reflecting underlying revenue growth of 3% at Marsh and 5% at Guy Carpenter. 

Consulting operating income increased $153 million or 22% to $845 million in 2013 compared with 2012 due to the combined effects of increased revenue at Mercer and lower expenses in the segment.

Consolidated net income attributable to the Company was $1.5 billion in 2014, compared with $1.4 billion in 2013 and $1.2 billion in 2012.

27

Consolidated Revenue and Expense

The Company conducts business in many countries, as a result of which the impact of foreign exchange rate movements may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Similarly, the revenue impact of acquisitions and dispositions may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue from one period to another by isolating these impacts. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations, acquisitions and dispositions, including transfers among businesses, on the Company’s operating revenues is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue using consistent currency exchange rates, excluding the impact of certain items that affect comparability such as: acquisitions, dispositions and transfers among businesses.

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue using consistent currency exchange rates, excluding the impact of certain items that affect comparability such as: acquisitions, dispositions and transfers among businesses.

*Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.

Revenue

Consolidated revenue of $13 billion in 2014 increased 6%, or 5% on an underlying basis, compared with $12.3 billion in 2013. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 5% in 2014 compared with 2013, or 3% on an underlying basis, with underlying revenue growth of 4% at Marsh and 2% at Guy Carpenter. The Consulting segment's revenue increased 6% on both a reported and underlying basis. On an underlying basis, Mercer's revenue was up 3% in 2014 compared with 2013, while revenue of the Oliver Wyman Group increased 15%. 

29

Consolidated revenue for 2013 increased 3% on both a reported and underlying basis to $12.3 billion compared with $11.9 billion in 2012. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 4% in 2013 compared with 2012, or 3% on an underlying basis, with underlying revenue growth of 3% at Marsh and 5% at Guy Carpenter. The Consulting segment's revenue increased 2% on both a reported and underlying basis. On an underlying basis, Mercer's revenue was up 4% in 2013 compared with 2012, while the Oliver Wyman Group decreased 1%. 

Operating Expense

Consolidated operating expenses increased 5% in 2014 compared with the same period in 2013 on a reported basis and 4% on an underlying basis. The increase in underlying expenses primarily reflects higher incentive compensation, facilities and software amortization costs, partly offset by lower pension costs. 

Consolidated operating expenses increased 1% in 2013 compared with the same period in 2012 on both a reported and underlying basis. The increase in underlying expenses primarily reflects higher incentive compensation and pension costs, partly offset by lower costs related to professional indemnity claims.

Risk and Insurance Services

In the Risk and Insurance Services segment, the Company’s subsidiaries and other affiliated entities act as brokers, agents or consultants for insureds, insurance underwriters and other brokers in the areas of risk management, insurance broking and insurance program management services, primarily under the name of Marsh; and engage in reinsurance broking, catastrophe and financial modeling services and related advisory functions, primarily under the name of Guy Carpenter.

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees paid by clients and/or commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiations with clients. Revenues can be affected by premium rate levels in the insurance/reinsurance markets, the amount of risk retained by insurance and reinsurance clients themselves and by the value of the risks that have been insured since commission based compensation is frequently related to the premiums paid by insureds/reinsureds. In many cases, fee compensation may be negotiated in advance, based on the type of risk, coverage required, and service provided by the Company and ultimately placed into the insurance market or retained by the client. The trends and comparisons of revenue from one period to the next can be affected by changes in premium rate levels, fluctuations in client risk retention, and increases or decreases in the value of risks that have been insured, as well as new and lost business, and the volume of business from new and existing clients. 

Marsh also receives compensation from insurance companies. This compensation includes, among other things, payment for consulting and analytics services provided to insurers; administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers (including services relating to the administration and management of quota shares, panels and other facilities in which insurers participate); and contingent commissions in parts of its operations. Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. The investment of fiduciary funds is regulated by state and other insurance authorities. These regulations typically provide for segregation of fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them. Interest income from these investments varies depending on the amount of funds invested and applicable interest rates, both of which vary from time to time. For presentation purposes, fiduciary interest is segregated from the other revenues of Marsh and Guy Carpenter and separately presented within the segment, as shown in the revenue by segments charts earlier in this MD&A.

30

The results of operations for the Risk and Insurance Services segment are presented below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 5%, or 3% on an underlying basis, in 2014 compared with 2013. 

In Marsh, revenue grew to $5.8 billion or 6% in 2014 as compared to 2013, reflecting a 4% increase on an underlying basis and a 3% increase from acquisitions, partly offset by a 1% decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue increase reflects growth in all major geographies driven by strong new business, particularly in countries such as the U.S., Canada, and the U.K., as well as in Africa. International operations had underlying revenue growth of 5% reflecting increases of 10% in Latin America, 7% in Asia Pacific and 3% in EMEA, while U.S. / Canada increased 3%. 

Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 2% to $1.2 billion in 2014 compared with 2013 on both a reported and an underlying basis, reflecting growth across the U.S., U.K. Facultative, Asia and Global Specialties such as Aviation and Marine.

Fiduciary interest income was $24 million in 2014 compared to $27 million in 2013 due to lower average invested funds combined with lower interest rates.

The Risk and Insurance segment completed fifteen acquisitions during 2014.

•January - Marsh & McLennan Agency ("MMA") acquired Barney & Barney, LLC, a San Diego-based insurance broking firm that provides insurance, risk management, and employee benefits solutions to businesses and individuals throughout the U.S. and abroad, Great Lakes Employee Benefits Services, Inc., an employee group benefits consulting and brokerage firm based in Michigan, and Bond Network, Inc., a surety bonding agency based in North Carolina. 

•February - Marsh acquired Central Insurance Services, an independent insurance broker in Scotland that provides insurance broking and risk advisory services to companies of all sizes across industry sectors.

•March - MMA acquired Capstone Insurance Services, LLC, an agency that provides property-casualty insurance and risk management solutions to businesses and individuals throughout South Carolina.

•May - MMA acquired Kinker-Eveleigh Insurance Agency, an Ohio-based agency specializing in property-casualty and employee benefits solutions, VISICOR, a full-service employee benefits brokerage and consulting firm based in Texas and Senn Dunn Insurance, a full service insurance brokerage located in North Carolina.

•August - Marsh acquired Seguros Morrice y Urrutia S.A., an insurance broker based in Panama City, Panama.

•September - Marsh acquired Kocisko Insurance Brokers, Inc., a full service commercial insurance brokerage located in Montreal, Quebec.

•October - MMA acquired NuWest Insurance Services, Inc., a California-based property-casualty agency.

•November - Marsh acquired Torrent Technologies, Inc., a Montana-based flood insurance specialist.

•December - Marsh acquired Seafire Insurance Services, LLC, a Kansas-based managing general underwriter, and Trade Insure NV, a leading distributor of credit insurance policies in Belgium, and 

31

MMA acquired The Benefit Planning Group, Inc., a North Carolina-based employee benefit consulting firm.

Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 4%, or 3% on an underlying basis, in 2013 compared with 2012. 

In Marsh, revenue grew to $5.4 billion in 2013, an increase of 4% from the prior year, reflecting 3% growth in underlying revenue and a 2% increase from acquisitions, partly offset by a 1% decrease resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue increase of 3% reflects growth in all major geographies which was driven by increased new business. International operations had underlying revenue growth of 4% reflecting increases of 13% in Latin America, 5% in Asia Pacific and 3% in EMEA, while U.S. / Canada increased 2%.

Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 5% to $1.1 billion in 2013 compared with 2012, or 5% on an underlying basis, reflecting growth across North America, International, Global Specialties and U.K. Facultative.

Fiduciary interest income was $27 million in 2013 compared to $39 million in 2012 due to lower average invested funds combined with lower interest rates.

The Risk and Insurance segment completed six acquisitions during 2013.

•June - Marsh acquired Rehder y Asociados Group, an insurance adviser in Peru. The business includes the insurance broker Rehder y Asociados and employee health and benefits specialist, Humanasalud. Marsh also completed the acquisition of Franco & Acra Tecniseguros, an insurance advisor in the Dominican Republic.

•July - Guy Carpenter acquired Smith Group, a specialist disability reinsurance risk manager and consultant based in Maine.

•September - Marsh purchased an additional stake in Insia a.s., an insurance broker operating in the Czech Republic and Slovakia which, when combined with its prior holdings, gave Marsh a controlling interest. Insia a.s. was previously accounted for under the equity method. 

•November - MMA acquired Elsey & Associates, a Texas-based provider of surety bonds and insurance coverage to the construction industry.

•December - MMA acquired Cambridge Property and Casualty, a Michigan-based company providing insurance and risk management services to high net worth individuals and mid-sized businesses.

Expense

Expenses in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 5% on a reported basis and 3% on an underlying basis in 2014 compared with 2013. The increase in expenses on an underlying basis is primarily due to higher base salaries, incentive compensation, facilities and intangible asset amortization expenses, partly offset by lower pension costs.

Expenses in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 3% on both a reported and underlying basis in 2013 compared with 2012. The increase in expenses on an underlying basis is primarily due to higher base salaries, pension costs and adjustments to acquisition-related contingent consideration liabilities, partly offset by lower costs related to professional indemnity claims.

Consulting

The Company conducts business in its Consulting segment through two main business groups. Mercer provides consulting expertise, advice, services and solutions in the areas of health, retirement, talent and investments. Oliver Wyman Group provides specialized management, economic and brand consulting services.

The major component of revenue in the Consulting business is fees paid by clients for advice and services. Mercer, principally through its health line of business, also earns revenue in the form of commissions received from insurance companies for the placement of group (and occasionally individual) insurance contracts, primarily life, health and accident coverages. Revenue for Mercer’s delegated investment management business and certain of Mercer’s defined contribution administration services consists principally of fees based on assets under management and/or administration.

32

Revenue in the Consulting segment is affected by, among other things, global economic conditions, including changes in clients’ particular industries and markets. Revenue is also affected by competition due to the introduction of new products and services, broad trends in employee demographics, including levels of employment, the effect of government policies and regulations, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. Revenues from the provision of investment management services and retirement trust and administrative services are significantly affected by the level of assets under management and securities market performance. 

Reimbursable expenses incurred by professional staff in the generation of revenue and sub-advisory fees incurred by the majority of funds are included on a gross basis in the investment management business in revenue and the related expenses are included in other operating expenses.

The results of operations for the Consulting segment are presented below: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Revenue

Consulting revenue in 2014 increased 6% on both a reported and underlying basis as compared to 2013. Mercer’s revenue was $4.4 billion in 2014, an increase of 3% on both a reported and underlying basis, partly offset by a 1% decrease due to the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue growth reflects an increase in Investments of 9%, Health of 3% and Retirement of 2%, partly offset by a decrease in Talent of 1%. Oliver Wyman’s revenue increased 17% in 2014 compared to 2013, or 15% on an underlying basis, as all industry sectors contributed to this growth. On a geographic basis, the revenue growth was attributable to both North America and Europe.

The Consulting segment completed six acquisitions during 2014.

•February - Mercer acquired Transition Assist, a retiree exchange specializing in helping retirees in employer-sponsored plans select Medicare supplemental health care insurance.

•September - Oliver Wyman acquired Bonfire Communications, an agency specializing in employee engagement and internal communications based in San Francisco, California.

•November - Mercer acquired AUSREM, a remuneration research and workforce consulting specialist based in Australia, and Jeitosa Group International, a global HR business consultancy and IT systems integration firm.

•December - Mercer acquired Denarius, a compensation and benefits survey and information products consulting firm based in Chile, and Oliver Wyman acquired OC&C Strategy Consultants (Boston) LLC (part of the OC&C network) a Boston-based consulting firm specializing in the business media, information services and education sectors. 

During 2014, Mercer acquired a 34% stake in South Africa-based Alexander Forbes Group Holding Limited (“Alexander Forbes”) becoming a strategic shareholder after Alexander Forbes successfully launched an initial public offering. The Company’s investment in Alexander Forbes is accounted for using the equity method of accounting and is included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. 

Consulting revenue in 2013 increased 2% compared with 2012 on both a reported and underlying basis. Mercer’s revenue was $4.2 billion in 2013, an increase of 2% reflecting a 4% increase in underlying revenue, partly offset by a 1% decrease due to the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue growth was primarily driven by Health and Investments, which increased 6% and 9%, respectively. Oliver Wyman’s revenue was flat in 2013 compared to 2012, as a 1% decrease in underlying revenue was offset by a 1% increase due to the impact of foreign currency translation. 

33

The Consulting segment completed two acquisitions during 2013.

•July - Oliver Wyman acquired Corven, a U.K.-based management consultancy firm.

•August - Mercer acquired Global Remuneration Solutions, a market leading compensation consulting firm based in South Africa.

Expense

Consulting expenses in 2014 increased 4% on both a reported and underlying basis compared to 2013. This increase reflects the impact of higher incentive compensation costs, partly offset by lower pension costs.

Consulting expenses in 2013 decreased 1% on both a reported and underlying basis compared to 2012. This decrease reflects the impact of lower restructuring costs and continued strong expense control.

Corporate and Other

Corporate expenses in 2014 were $204 million compared to $190 million in 2013. The increase is primarily due to corporate initiatives, which include strengthening cyber security protections, expenses related to strategic investments and corporate transformation efforts, primarily within the HR and Finance functions. 

Corporate expenses in 2013 were $190 million compared to $203 million in 2012. The decrease is primarily due to lower amortization of equity awards and lower severance, partially offset by higher pension expense.

Discontinued Operations

As part of the disposal transactions for Putnam and Kroll, the Company provided certain indemnities, primarily related to pre-transaction tax uncertainties and legal contingencies. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, liabilities were established related to these indemnities at the time of the sales and reflected as a reduction of the gain on disposal. Discontinued operations includes charges or credits resulting from the settlement or resolution of the indemnified matters, as well as adjustments to the liabilities related to such matters. 

On December 31, 2014, an agreement was reached between Putnam and the Massachusetts Department of Revenue ("DOR") regarding a tax dispute, which was covered under the indemnity agreement discussed above. The December 2014 agreement was subject to certain approvals, which included the State Attorney General and the Commissioner of the DOR. In January 2015, all necessary approvals were received, the agreement was executed and the tax was paid. Concurrently, Putnam and the Company executed a settlement agreement to resolve all remaining matters under the indemnity agreement. The Company recorded a gain, net of federal tax, of approximately $28 million in 2014 related to the settlement with Putnam. 

Discontinued operations in 2013 includes estimated costs covered under the indemnity related to the Kroll sale as well as tax indemnities related to the Putnam sale. 

Summarized Statements of Income data for discontinued operations are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34

Other Corporate Items

Interest

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $21 million in 2014 compared with $18 million in 2013. The increase in interest income is due to a higher level of invested funds, partly offset by lower effective interest rates. Interest expense was $165 million in 2014 compared with $167 million in 2013. 

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $18 million in 2013 compared with $24 million in 2012. The decrease in interest income is due to lower average interest rates compared with the prior year. Interest expense was $167 million in 2013 compared with $181 million in 2012. The decrease is due to lower average debt balances in 2013 and lower interest rates on senior notes issued in 2013 compared with the interest rates on senior notes that matured or were extinguished during 2013.

Cost of Extinguishment of Debt

In October 2014, the Company redeemed $230 million of its 2015 notes and $400 million of its 2019 notes. The Company acquired the notes at market value plus a make-whole premium based on the terms of the original indenture, which exceeded the carrying value of the notes and resulted in a cost of $137 million in the fourth quarter of 2014.

In October 2013, the Company redeemed $250 million of its 2015 Notes. The Company acquired the notes at market value plus a make-whole premium based on the terms of the original indenture, which exceeded the carrying value of the notes and resulted in a cost of approximately $24 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.

Investment Income

The caption “Investment income” in the consolidated statements of income comprises realized and unrealized gains and losses from investments recognized in current earnings. It includes, when applicable, other than temporary declines in the value of debt and available-for-sale securities and equity method gains or losses on its investment in private equity. The Company's investments may include direct investments in insurance or consulting companies and investments in private equity funds. The Company recorded investment income of $37 million and $69 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. In 2014, the Company recorded gains of $31 million related to our general partner carried interest from Trident III no longer subject to claw-back and gains of $6 million primarily related to investments in private equity funds. In 2013, the Company recorded gains of $41 million related to its general partner carried interest from Trident III, $22 million of gains related to its investment in Trident II and $6 million primarily related to investments in private equity funds. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the Company had deferred performance fees of approximately $16 million and $38 million, respectively, related to Trident III. The timing of recognition of the remaining deferred performance fees is unknown and is not controlled by the Company.

In 2013, investment income was $69 million compared with $24 million in 2012. This increase was primarily due to $41 million of performance fees from Trident III. In addition, 2012 results included an impairment loss on a debt security of $8 million.

Income Taxes

The Company's consolidated effective tax rate was 28.5%, 30.1% and 29.0% in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The tax rate in each year reflects foreign operations which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The lower effective tax rate attributed to the Company's foreign operations primarily reflects lower corporate tax rates that prevail outside of the U.S., net of the U.S. tax impact from repatriating foreign earnings. In 2014, pre-tax income in the U.K., Canada, Australia, Germany and Bermuda accounted for approximately 60% of the Company's total non-U.S. pre-tax income, with effective rates in those countries of 21%, 26%, 29%, 28% and 1%, respectively. Under current U.S. tax law, the Company anticipates its non-U.S. operations will continue to incur taxes at rates below the U.S. federal tax rate of 35%. The Company's U.S. revenue over the past three years has been approximately 45% of total revenue, while over that period the pre-tax income from U.S. locations varied from 15% to 23% of total pre-tax income.

35

As a U.S.-domiciled parent holding company, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. is the issuer of essentially all of the Company's external indebtedness, and incurs the related interest expense in the U.S. Further, most senior executive and oversight functions are conducted in the U.S. and the associated costs are incurred primarily in the United States.

The effective tax rate may vary significantly from period to period for the foreseeable future. It is sensitive to the geographic mix and repatriation of the Company's earnings, which may result in higher or lower tax rates. A proportional increase in U.S. pre-tax income will tend to increase the effective tax rate because U.S. federal and state corporate tax rates exceed tax rates applicable outside the U.S. Losses in certain jurisdictions cannot be offset by earnings from other operations, and may require valuation allowances that affect the rate, depending on estimates of the realizability of associated deferred tax assets. The effective tax rate is also sensitive to changes in unrecognized tax benefits, including the impact of settled tax audits and expired statutes of limitation.

The realization of deferred tax assets depends on generating future taxable income during the periods in which the tax benefits are deductible or creditable. Tax liabilities are determined and assessed jurisdictionally by legal entity or filing group. Certain taxing jurisdictions allow or require combined or consolidated tax filings. The Company assessed the realizability of its deferred tax assets and considered all available evidence, including the existence of a recent history of losses, placing particular weight on evidence that could be objectively verified. A valuation allowance was recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that the Company believes is more likely than not to be realized. 

Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on the effective tax rate.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company is organized as a holding company, a legal entity separate and distinct from its operating subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of its own, the Company is dependent upon dividends and other payments from its operating subsidiaries to meet its obligations for paying principal and interest on outstanding debt obligations, for paying dividends to stockholders, for share repurchases and for corporate expenses. Other sources of liquidity include borrowing facilities discussed below in financing cash flows.

The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and operating profit from operating subsidiaries located outside of the United States. Funds from the Company’s operating subsidiaries located outside of the United States are regularly repatriated to the United States out of annual earnings. At December 31, 2014, the Company had approximately $1.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents in its foreign operations, substantially all of which is considered to be permanently invested in those operations to fund foreign investments and working capital needs. At the current time, the Company does not intend to repatriate any of this cash. The non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents considered permanently reinvested includes $179 million of operating funds required to be maintained for regulatory requirements or as collateral under certain captive insurance arrangements. The Company expects to continue its practice of repatriating foreign funds out of current annual earnings. While management does not foresee a need to repatriate the funds which are currently deemed permanently invested, if facts or circumstances change, management could elect to repatriate them, if necessary, which could result in higher effective tax rates in the future. During 2014, the Company recorded foreign currency translation adjustments which reduced net equity by $515 million. Continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies would further reduce the translated U.S. dollar value of the Company’s net investments in its non-U.S. subsidiaries, as well as the translated U.S. dollar value of cash repatriations from those subsidiaries. 

Cash on our consolidated balance sheets includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown separately in the consolidated balance sheets as an offset to fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds cannot be used for general corporate purposes, and should not be considered as a source of liquidity for the Company.

36

Operating Cash Flows

The Company generated $2.1 billion of cash from operations in 2014, compared with $1.3 billion in 2013. These amounts reflect the net income reported by the Company during those periods, excluding gains or losses from investments, cost of extinguishment of debt and the disposition of businesses, adjusted for non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization and changes in working capital which relate, primarily, to the timing of payments for accrued liabilities or receipts of assets. Approximately half of this increase is due to lower pension contributions in 2014 as compared to 2013, which is further discussed below.

Pension Related Items

During 2014, the Company contributed $25 million to its U.S. pension plans and $156 million to non-U.S. pension plans. In 2013, the Company contributed $26 million to U.S. plans and $620 million to non-U.S. plans, which included contributions of $250 million to pre-fund all of the 2014, and a substantial portion of the 2015 deficit funding contributions for the U.K. plans and a discretionary contribution of $70 million to the Canadian plans.

In the U.S., contributions to the tax-qualified defined benefit plans are based on ERISA guidelines and the Company generally expects to maintain a funded status of 80% or more of the liability determined under the ERISA guidelines. The pension stabilization provisions included in the "Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act", enacted on July 6, 2012, changed the methodology for determining the discount rate used for calculating plan liabilities under ERISA, which determines, in part, the funding requirements. After considering the impact of the pension funding stabilization provisions discussed above, the Company made a $0.2 million contribution to its tax-qualified U.S. pension plan in the first quarter of 2014. There currently is no ERISA funding requirement for the U.S. qualified plan for 2015. The Company expects to fund approximately $25 million to its non-qualified U.S. pension plans in 2015.

The Company has a large number of non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the largest of which are in the U.K., which comprise approximately 83% of non-U.S. plan assets. Contribution rates for non-U.S. plans are generally based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ significantly from measurements under U.S. GAAP. In the U.K., contributions to defined benefit pension plans are based on statutory requirements and are determined through a negotiation process between the Company and the plans' trustee that typically occurs every three years in conjunction with the actuarial valuation of the plans. This negotiation process is governed by U.K. pension regulations. The assumptions that result from the funding negotiations are different from those used for U.S. GAAP and currently result in a lower funded status than under U.S. GAAP. In March 2014, the Company and the Trustee of the U.K. Defined Benefits Plans agreed to a funding deficit recovery plan for the U.K. defined benefit pension plans. The current agreement with the Trustee sets out the annual deficit contributions which would be due based on the deficit at December 31, 2012. The funding level is subject to re-assessment, in most cases on November 1st of each year. If the funding level on November 1st has sufficiently improved, no deficit funding contributions will be required in the following year, and the contribution amount will be deferred. As part of a long-term strategy, which depends on having greater influence over asset allocation and overall investment decisions, the Company has agreed to support annual deficit contributions by the U.K. operating companies under certain circumstances, up to GBP 450 million over a seven-year period.

As a result of the significant improvement in funded status during 2013, which included the $250 million deficit pre-funding contribution discussed above, no additional deficit recovery contributions were required in 2014. Based on the funding test carried out at November 1, 2014, Company contributions to the U.K. plans in 2015 are expected to be $54 million. The U.K. employers also contribute an expense allowance each year of approximately $9 million.

In the aggregate, the Company expects to contribute approximately $169 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit plans in 2015, comprising approximately $106 million to plans outside of the U.K. and $63 million to the U.K. plans.

Funding amounts may be influenced by future asset performance, the level of discount rates and other variables impacting the funded status of the plan.

37

After completion of a consultation period with affected colleagues, in January 2014, the Company amended its U.K. defined benefit pension plans to close those plans to future benefit accruals effective August 1, 2014 and replaced those plans, along with its existing defined contribution plans, with a new, comprehensive defined contribution arrangement. This change resulted in a curtailment of the U.K. defined benefit plans and, as required under U.S. GAAP, the Company re-measured the defined benefit plans’ assets and liabilities at the amendment date, based on assumptions and market conditions at that date. As a result of the re-measurement, the Projected Benefit Obligation ("PBO") increased by approximately $147 million and the funded status decreased by approximately $137 million. The change in the PBO and in the funded status relates primarily to a decrease in the discount rate at the re-measurement date. The net periodic benefit costs recognized in 2014 were based on a weighted average resulting from the December 31, 2013 measurement and the January 2014 re-measurement. The Company recognized a curtailment gain of $65 million in the first quarter of 2014, primarily resulting from the recognition of the remaining unamortized prior service credit related to a plan amendment made in December 2012. This gain was largely offset by the cost of a transition benefit to certain employees most impacted by the amendment.

The year-over-year change in the funded status of the Company's pension plans is impacted by the variance between actual and assumed results, particularly with regard to return on assets and changes in the discount rate, as well as the amount of Company contributions, if any. Unrecognized actuarial losses were approximately $1.7 billion and $3.2 billion at December 31, 2014 for the U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans, respectively, compared with $1.0 billion and $3.0 billion at December 31, 2013. The increase is primarily due to the impact of decreases in the discount rates, partly offset by actual returns on plan assets in 2014 that were higher than the estimated long-term rate of return on plan assets. In the past several years, the amount of actuarial losses has been significantly impacted, both positively and negatively, by actual asset performance and changes in discount rates. The discount rate used to measure plan liabilities decreased in both the U.S. and the U.K. (the Company's two largest plans) in 2014 after increasing in 2013 for the first time in four years. Prior to 2013, the discount rate decreased in each of the four years from 2009 to 2012. At the end of 2009, the weighted average discount rate for all plans was 6.0%, declining to 5.6%, 4.9% and 4.4% at the end of 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. In 2013, the weighted average discount rate increased to 4.8%, and in 2014, it decreased to 3.8%. An increase in the discount rate decreases the measured plan benefit obligation, resulting in actuarial gains, while a decrease in the discount rate increases the measured plan obligation, resulting in actuarial losses. During 2014, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had actual returns of 9.8% and 19.4% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively. During 2013, the Company's defined benefit pension plan assets had actual returns of 12.6%, and 8.6% in the U.S. and U.K., respectively; and in 2012, the actual returns were 14.1% in the U.S. and 9.8% in the U.K. In 2013, both the increase in the discount rate and actual asset returns that were higher than the assumed rates of return contributed to actuarial gains. In 2012, actuarial losses resulting from declines in the discount rate were partly offset by actual asset returns which exceeded the assumed rate of return.

Overall, based on the measurement at December 31, 2014, expenses related to the Company’s defined benefit pension are expected to increase in 2015 by approximately $115 million. This is being driven by an increase of approximately $80 million in U.S. plans and by an increase of $35 million in non-U.S. plans. The increase in the expected pension expense results primarily from a decrease in the discount rates used to measure plan liabilities and lower pension expense in 2014 as a result of recording the curtailment gain in 2014, partly offset by the impact of an increase in plan assets at the end of 2014 resulting from investment returns.

The Company’s accounting policies for its defined benefit pension plans, including the selection of and sensitivity to assumptions, are discussed below under Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies. For additional information regarding the Company’s retirement plans, see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

The Company plans to implement changes to its post-65 retiree medical plan in 2015. The impact of the plan amendment will be recognized when the terms of the amendment are finalized and communicated to impacted employees.

38

Financing Cash Flows

Net cash used for financing activities was $961 million in 2014 compared with $834 million of net cash used for financing activities in 2013. 

Debt

The Company increased outstanding debt by approximately $432 million in 2014 and $37 million in 2013. 

In September 2014, the Company issued $300 million of 2.35% five-year senior notes and $500 million of 3.50% 10.5-year senior notes. In October 2014, a significant portion of the net proceeds of this offering was used to redeem $630 million of debt, including $230 million of 5.75% senior notes due in September 2015 and $400 million of 9.25% senior notes due in 2019. Total cash outflow related to this transaction was approximately $765 million, including a $137 million cost for early redemption, which is reflected as a charge in the consolidated statements of income in the fourth quarter of 2014.

During the second quarter of 2014, the Company issued $600 million of 3.5% ten-year senior notes. A portion of the net proceeds of this offering was used for general corporate purposes as well as the repayment of $320 million of 5.375% senior notes that matured in July 2014.

In September 2013, the Company issued $250 million of 2.55% five-year senior notes and $250 million of 4.05% ten-year senior notes. The net proceeds of this offering were used for general corporate purposes, which included a partial redemption of $250 million of the outstanding principal amount of the existing 5.75% senior notes due 2015. The redemption settled in October 2013 with a total cash outflow of approximately $275 million, including a $24 million cost for early redemption.

During the first quarter of 2013, the Company used cash to repay its 4.85% fixed rate $250 million senior notes that matured. 

During the first quarter of 2012, the Company repaid its 6.25% fixed rate $250 million senior notes that matured. The Company used proceeds from the issuance of 2.3% five-year $250 million senior notes in the first quarter to repay the maturing notes.

Acquisitions

During 2014, the Company paid $42 million of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior years. These payments are split between financing and operating cash flows in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The portion of these payments that is reflected as a financing activity is $30 million, which represents payments related to the contingent consideration liability that was recorded on the date of acquisition. Payments related to increases in the contingent consideration liability subsequent to the date of acquisition, which were $12 million in 2014, are reflected as operating cash flows. Remaining estimated future contingent consideration payments of $207 million for acquisitions completed in 2014 and in prior years are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2014. The Company paid deferred purchase consideration related to prior years' acquisitions of $25 million, $15 million and $59 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Remaining deferred cash payments of approximately $96 million are included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2014.

The Company paid $17 million in 2013 and $30 million in 2012 of contingent payments related to acquisitions made in prior periods.

Credit Facilities

On March 27, 2014, the Company and certain of its foreign subsidiaries amended the $1.0 billion facility, discussed below, into a new $1.2 billion multi-currency five-year unsecured revolving credit facility. The interest rate on this facility is based on LIBOR plus a fixed margin which varies with the Company's credit ratings. This facility expires in March 2019 and requires the Company to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios which are tested quarterly. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2014.

The Company and certain of its foreign subsidiaries previously maintained a $1.0 billion multi-currency five-year revolving credit facility. The facility was previously due to expire in October 2016 and was in 

39

effect until March 2014. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at the time it was amended.

In December 2012, the Company closed on a $50 million, 3-year delayed draw term loan facility. The interest rate on this facility is based on LIBOR plus an agreed fixed margin which varies with the Company's credit ratings. The facility requires the Company to maintain coverage ratios and leverage ratios consistent with the revolving credit facility discussed above. The Company had $50 million of borrowings under this facility at December 31, 2014. 

The Company's senior debt is currently rated Baa1 by Moody's and A- by Standard & Poor's. The Company's short-term debt is currently rated P-2 by Moody's and A-2 by Standard & Poor's. The Company carries a stable outlook from Moody's and Standard & Poor's.

The Company also maintains other credit facilities, guarantees and letters of credit with various banks, primarily related to operations located outside the United States, aggregating $260 million at December 31, 2014 and $282 million at December 31, 2013. There was $0.6 million outstanding borrowings under these facilities at December 31, 2014 and $1 million outstanding borrowings under these facilities at December 31, 2013.

Share Repurchases

In May 2014, the Board of Directors increased the amount of the Company's share repurchase program to $2 billion. During 2014, the Company repurchased 15.5 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of $800 million at an average price per share of $51.44. The Company remains authorized to purchase additional shares of its common stock up to a value of approximately $1.3 billion. There is no time limit on this authorization. During 2013, the Company repurchased approximately 13.2 million shares of its common stock for total consideration of $550 million at an average price per share of $41.76.

Dividends

The Company paid total dividends of $582 million in 2014 ($1.06 per share), $533 million in 2013 ($0.96 per share) and $497 million in 2012 ($0.90 per share).

Investing Cash Flows

Net cash used for investing activities amounted to $1.2 billion in 2014 compared with $446 million used for investing activities in 2013. 

The Company made 21 acquisitions in 2014. Cash used for these acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $554 million. 

On June 23, 2014, Mercer entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a 34% stake in South Africa-based Alexander Forbes Group Holdings Limited ("Alexander Forbes"), becoming a strategic shareholder after Alexander Forbes successfully launched an initial public offering. Mercer purchased its stake in Alexander Forbes in two tranches at 7.50 South African Rand per share. On July 24, 2014, the Company purchased 14.9% of Alexander Forbes common shares for approximately $137 million and in October 2014, the Company paid approximately $166 million for the remaining 19.1%, which is included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheet. The investment in Alexander Forbes is accounted for using the equity method. 

The Company made eight acquisitions in 2013. Cash used for these acquisitions, net of cash acquired was $125 million. In addition, in 2013, the Company paid $2 million for the purchase of other intangible assets. 

The Company received proceeds from distributions on its Investment in Trident II of $100 million and $35 million in 2013 and 2012, respectively. Trident II has now fully harvested all its portfolio investments and final distributions were made to partners during the fourth quarter of 2013. 

The Company’s additions to fixed assets and capitalized software, which amounted to $368 million in 2014 and $401 million in 2013, primarily relate to computer equipment purchases, the refurbishing and modernizing of office facilities and software development costs. 

The Company has commitments for potential future investments of approximately $60 million in two private equity funds that invest primarily in financial services companies. 

40

Commitments and Obligations

The following sets forth the Company’s future contractual obligations by the types identified in the table below as of December 31, 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The above does not include the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $97 million as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities, other than approximately $4 million that may become payable during 2015. The above does not include the indemnified liabilities discussed in Note 15 as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities. The above does not include an $82 million payment the Company made to Putnam in January 2015 to fully satisfy and extinguish its indemnity obligations related to the Putnam disposition.The above does not include net pension liabilities of approximately $2.0 billion because the timing and amount of ultimate payment of such liability is dependent upon future events, including, but not limited to, future returns on plan assets, and changes in the discount rate used to measure the liabilities. The amounts of estimated future benefits payments to be made from pension plan assets are disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2015, the Company expects to contribute approximately $25 million and $169 million to its U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, respectively. 

Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management considers the policies discussed below to be critical to understanding the Company’s financial statements because their application places the most significant demands on management’s judgment, and requires management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from those estimates.

Legal and Other Loss Contingencies

The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims, lawsuits and proceedings including claims for errors and omissions ("E&O"). GAAP requires that a liability be recorded when a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Significant management judgment is required to apply this guidance. The Company utilizes case level reviews by inside and outside counsel, an internal actuarial analysis and other analyses to estimate potential losses. The liability is reviewed quarterly and adjusted as developments warrant. In many cases, the Company has not recorded a liability, other than for legal fees to defend the claim, because we are unable, at the present time, to make a determination that a loss is both probable and reasonably estimable. Given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, results of operations, financial condition or cash flow in a given quarterly or annual period.

In addition, to the extent that insurance coverage is available, significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of recoveries that are probable of collection under the Company’s various insurance programs.

41

Retirement Benefits

The Company maintains qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and defined contribution plans for its eligible U.S. employees and a variety of defined benefit and defined contribution plans for its eligible non-U.S. employees. The Company’s policy for funding its tax qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth in U.S. and applicable foreign laws.

The Company recognizes the funded status of its over-funded defined benefit pension and retiree medical plans as a net benefit plan asset and its unfunded and underfunded plans as a net benefit plan liability. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic costs are recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), net of tax, in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The gains and losses that exceed specified corridors are amortized prospectively out of AOCI over a period that approximates the average remaining service period of active employees, or for plans in which substantially all the participants are inactive, over the remaining life expectancy of the inactive employees. 

The determination of net periodic pension cost is based on a number of assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, mortality and assumed rate of salary increase. Significant assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic pension costs and pension liabilities are disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company believes the assumptions for each plan are reasonable and appropriate and will continue to evaluate assumptions at least annually and adjust them as appropriate.

Future pension expense or credits will depend on plan provisions, future investment performance, future assumptions and various other factors related to the populations participating in the pension plans. Holding all other assumptions constant, a half-percentage point change in the rate of return on plan assets and discount rate assumptions would affect net periodic pension cost for the U.S. and U.K. plans, which together comprise approximately 86% of total pension plan liabilities, as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Changing the discount rate and leaving the other assumptions constant may not be representative of the impact on expense, because the long-term rates of inflation and salary increases are often correlated with the discount rate. Changes in these assumptions will not necessarily have a linear impact on the net periodic pension cost.

The Company contributes to certain health care and life insurance benefits provided to its retired employees. The cost of these post-retirement benefits for employees in the U.S. is accrued during the period up to the date employees are eligible to retire, but is funded by the Company as incurred. The key assumptions and sensitivity to changes in the assumed health care cost trend rate are discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.

Income Taxes

The Company's tax rate reflects its income, statutory tax rates and tax planning in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the annual effective tax rate and in evaluating uncertain tax positions. The Company reports a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The evaluation of a tax position is a two-step process. The first step involves recognition. The Company determines whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon tax examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation, based on only the technical merits of the position. The technical merits of a tax position derive from both statutory and judicial authority (legislation and statutes, legislative intent, regulations, rulings, and case law) and their applicability to the facts and circumstances of the tax position. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. A tax position 

42

that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority.

Uncertain tax positions are evaluated based upon the facts and circumstances that exist at each reporting period and involve significant management judgment. Subsequent changes in judgment based upon new information may lead to changes in recognition, derecognition, and measurement. Adjustments may result, for example, upon resolution of an issue with the taxing authorities, or expiration of a statute of limitations barring an assessment for an issue.

Tax law requires items be included in the Company's tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the annual tax expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income is different than that reported in the tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the returns, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which a deduction has been taken already in the tax return but the expense has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has already been recorded in the financial statements. In assessing the need for and amount of a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, the Company considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjusts the valuation allowance accordingly. The Company evaluates all significant available positive and negative evidence, including the existence of losses in recent years and its forecast of future taxable income by jurisdiction, in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. The Company also considers tax planning strategies that would result in realization of deferred tax assets, and the presence of taxable income in prior period tax filings in jurisdictions that allow for the carryback of tax attributes pursuant to the applicable tax law. The underlying assumptions the Company uses in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment and take into account the Company's recent performance. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences or carry-forwards are deductible or creditable. Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when it is estimated that it is more likely than not that future taxable income will be insufficient to fully use a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction.

Fair Value Determinations

Goodwill Impairment Testing—The Company is required to assess goodwill and any indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The Company performs the annual impairment test for each of its reporting units during the third quarter of each year. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Company assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The Company considered numerous factors, which included that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by a substantial margin in its most recent estimate of reporting unit fair values, whether significant acquisitions or dispositions occurred which might alter the fair value of its reporting units, macroeconomic conditions and their potential impact on reporting unit fair values, actual performance compared with budget and prior projections used in its estimation of reporting unit fair values, industry and market conditions, and the year-over year change in the Company’s share price. 

The Company completed its qualitative assessment in the third quarter of 2014 and concluded that a two-step goodwill impairment test was not required in 2014 and that goodwill was not impaired.

Share-based Payment

The guidance for accounting for share-based payments requires, among other things, that the estimated fair value of stock options be charged to earnings. Significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate assumptions for inputs such as volatility and expected term necessary to estimate option values. In addition, management judgment is required to analyze the terms of the plans and awards granted thereunder to determine if awards will be treated as equity awards or liability awards, as defined by the accounting guidance.

43

As of December 31, 2014, there was $16 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards. The weighted-average periods over which the costs are expected to be recognized is 1.05 years. Also as of December 31, 2014, there was $55.8 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the Company’s restricted stock, restricted stock unit and deferred stock unit awards. The weighted-average period over which that cost is expected to be recognized is approximately one year.

See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding accounting for share-based payments.

New Accounting Pronouncements

Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements contains a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or potential future impact on the Company’s financial results, if determinable, under the sub-heading "New Accounting Pronouncements".

44

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk