Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General Overview

Overview

We own, operate, and lease shared wireless infrastructure. See "Item 1. Business" for a further discussion of our business, including our long-term strategy, certain key terms of our lease agreements, and growth trends in the wireless communication services industry. Site rental revenues represented 81% of our 2014 consolidated net revenues. CCUSA, our largest operating segment, accounted for 95% of our 2014 site rental revenues.

Business Fundamentals and Results

The following are certain highlights of our business fundamentals and results as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014:

•Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes (see "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—REIT Election").

•Potential growth resulting from wireless network expansion and new entrants

◦We expect wireless carriers will continue their focus on improving network quality and expanding capacity by adding additional antennas or other equipment on our wireless infrastructure.

◦We expect existing and potential new wireless carrier demand for our wireless infrastructure will result from (1) next generation technologies, (2) increased usage of wireless data applications (including mobile entertainment, mobile internet usage, and machine-to-machine applications), (3) adoption of other emerging and embedded wireless devices (including smartphones, laptops, tablets, and other devices), (4) increasing smartphone penetration, (5) wireless carrier focus on expanding quality and capacity, or (6) the availability of additional spectrum.

◦Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate additional tenancy, either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure.

◦U.S. wireless carriers continue to invest in their networks.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪An approximate 15% increase due to the AT&T Acquisition (based on initial run-rates), which was completed in December 2013.

▪An approximate 6% increase from new tenant additions and amendments to existing tenant leases.

▪An approximate 4% increase from cash escalations, partially offset by a decrease of approximately 3% in site rental revenues caused by the non-renewal of tenant leases.

•Site rental revenues under long-term tenant leases with contractual escalations

◦Initial terms of five to 15 years with multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Revenues predominately from large wireless carriers[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Majority of land interests under our towers under long-term control[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Relatively fixed wireless infrastructure operating costs 

◦Our wireless infrastructure operating costs tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation and are not typically influenced by new tenant additions.

•Minimal sustaining capital expenditure requirements

◦Sustaining capital expenditures represented approximately 2% of net revenues.

•Debt portfolio with long-dated maturities extended over multiple years, with the majority of such debt having a fixed rate (see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a further discussion of our debt) 

◦64% of our debt has fixed rate coupons.

◦Our debt service coverage and leverage ratios were comfortably within their respective financial maintenance covenants. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a further discussion of our debt covenants.

 22

◦During January 2014, we amended our 2012 Credit Facility by extending the maturity date on a portion of the Tranche B Term Loans, including the Incremental Tranche B Term Loans, to January 2021. As of December 31, 2014, our Tranche B Term Loans, including the Incremental Tranche B Term Loans and the Incremental Tranche B-2 Term Loans, consist of $2.3 billion aggregate principal amount due January 2021 and $565.6 million aggregate principal amount due January 2019. 

◦During April 2014, we issued $850.0 million of 4.875% Senior Notes, due in April 2022. 

◦We utilized a portion of the net proceeds from the 4.875% Senior Notes offering to (1) repay $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of the January 2010 Tower Revenue Notes and (2) redeem all of the previously outstanding 7.125% Senior Notes. 

◦During January and February 2015, we increased the aggregate revolving commitment under the 2012 Revolver by $730 million to approximately $2.2 billion.

•Significant cash flows from operations

◦Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.7 billion.

◦We expect to grow our core business of providing access to our wireless infrastructure as a result of contractual escalators and anticipated demand for our wireless infrastructure.

•Returning cash flows provided by operations to stockholders in the form of dividends (see also "Item 1. Business")

◦During 2014, we paid common stock cash dividends totaling approximately $624.3 million. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Common Stock Dividend" for a discussion of the increase to our quarterly dividend in the fourth quarter of 2014. 

•Investing capital efficiently to grow long-term dividends per share (see also "Item 1. Business")

◦Discretionary capital expenditures of $696.1 million, including wireless infrastructure improvements in order to support additional site rentals, construction of wireless infrastructure, and land purchases.

Common Stock Dividend

In the first quarter of 2014, we commenced paying a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. In October 2014, we increased our quarterly cash dividend, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014, from an annual amount of $1.40 to $3.28 per share. As such, we declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.82 per share in each of October 2014 and February 2015, which represented an increase of $0.47 per share from the $0.35 per share quarterly dividends declared during each of the first three quarters of 2014. We currently expect such increased dividends to result in aggregate annual cash payments of approximately $1.1 billion during 2015, subject to the future approval of our board of directors. Over time, we expect to increase our dividend per share generally commensurate with our realized growth in cash flows. Future dividends are subject to the approval of our board of directors. See notes 11 and 18 to our consolidated financial statements.

Outlook Highlights

The following are certain highlights of our 2015 outlook that impact our business fundamentals described above.

•We expect that our full year 2015 site rental revenue growth will be benefited by similar levels of tenant additions as in 2014, as large U.S. wireless carriers continue to upgrade their networks, partially offset by an increase in non-renewals of tenant leases. We expect non-renewals of tenant leases to result from (1) Sprint's decommissioning of its legacy Nextel iDEN network during 2014 and 2015 and (2) the decommissioning of the Acquired Networks, at least in part, which we expect to occur predominately from 2015 through 2018. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a further discussion of non-renewals.

•We expect sustaining capital expenditures of approximately 2% of net revenues for full year 2015.

 23

REIT Election

Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, we are generally entitled to a deduction for dividends that we pay and therefore are not subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our taxable income that is distributed to our stockholders. We also may be subject to certain federal, state, local, and foreign taxes on our income or assets, including (1) alternative minimum taxes, (2) taxes on any undistributed income, (3) taxes related to the TRSs, (4) state, local, or foreign income taxes, (5) franchise taxes, (6) property taxes and (7) transfer taxes. In addition, we could in certain circumstances be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain qualification for taxation as a REIT. 

Our small cells are currently included in one or more wholly owned TRSs. In August 2014, we received a favorable private letter ruling from the IRS, which provides that the real property portion of our small cells and the related rents qualify as real property and rents from real property, respectively, under the rules governing REITs. We are evaluating the impact of this private letter ruling, and subject to board approval, we expect to take appropriate action to include at least some part of our small cells as part of the REIT during 2015. Once we have completed our evaluation and necessary actions to include small cells in the REIT, we expect to de-recognize our net deferred tax liabilities related to such part of our small cells. 

Additionally, we have included in TRSs our tower operations in Australia and certain other assets and operations. Those TRS assets and operations (along with any part of our small cells that may remain in a TRS) will continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income taxes or to foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located. Our foreign assets and operations (including our tower operations in Puerto Rico and Australia) most likely will be subject to foreign income taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located, regardless of whether they are included in a TRS or not. 

To remain qualified and be taxed as a REIT, we will generally be required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, after the utilization of our NOLs, (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) each year to our stockholders (see notes 2 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements). 

In connection with completing the steps necessary to qualify to operate as a REIT, in December 2013, we de-recognized the net deferred tax assets and liabilities related to the entities included in the REIT resulting in a corresponding net non-cash income tax charge of $67.4 million. The de-recognition of the deferred tax assets and liabilities was recorded upon completion of all necessary actions to qualify as a REIT and receipt of final approval from our board of directors. 

In October 2014, we increased our quarterly common stock cash dividend, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2014, from an annual amount of $1.40 to $3.28 per share. The increased common stock dividend will delay the utilization of our NOLs and may cause certain of the NOLs to expire without utilization. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for additional information concerning our REIT election.

 24

Results of Operations

The following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP") which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts (see "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).

Comparison of Consolidated Results

The following is a comparison of our 2014, 2013 and 2012 consolidated results of operations: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Percentage is not meaningful

(a)Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion, which are shown separately.

(b)Inclusive of the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. See "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments—CCAL."

2014 and 2013. Our consolidated results of operations for 2014 and 2013, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 96% and 95% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 95% and 95% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 93% and 85% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Our operating segment results for 2014 and 2013, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments"). 

 25

2013 and 2012. Our consolidated results of operations for 2013 and 2012, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 95% and 94% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 95% and 94% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 85% and 77% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Our operating segment results for 2013 and 2012, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments"). 

Comparison of Operating Segments

Our reportable operating segments for 2014 are (1) CCUSA, consisting of our U.S. operations and (2) CCAL, our Australian operations. Our financial results are reported to management and the board of directors in this manner. See "Item 1. Business—The Company" for a discussion of our intentions to explore a potential sale of CCAL.

See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for segment results and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (defined below).

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate our operating performance and operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted ("Adjusted EBITDA"). Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector or other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write-down charges, acquisition and integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, amortization of prepaid lease purchase price adjustments, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, gains (losses) on retirement of long-term obligations, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, impairment of available-for-sale securities, interest income, other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations, and stock-based compensation expense (see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements). The reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to our net income (loss) is set forth in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is discussed further under "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Non-GAAP Financial Measures."

CCUSA—2014 and 2013. See note 3 in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the impact of the 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition.

Net revenues for 2014 increased by $673.0 million, or 23%, from 2013. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in (1) site rental revenues of $495.2 million, or 21%, and (2) network services and other revenues of $177.8 million, or 36%, in each case as compared to 2013. The AT&T Acquisition increased our site rental revenues for 2014 compared to 2013, as discussed in "Item 7. MD&A—Overview." This increase in site rental revenues was also impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight-line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of tenant leases, escalations, construction of new wireless infrastructure, other acquisitions, and non-renewals of tenant leases. Tenant additions were influenced by our customers' upgrading to LTE and their ongoing efforts to improve network quality and capacity. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company—CCUSA."

Site rental gross margins for 2014 increased by $276.0 million, or 16%, from 2013. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 21% increase in site rental revenues, primarily as a result of the AT&T Acquisition (which had lower initial margins due to lower average tenancy that the average tenancy for our other wireless infrastructure) and the growth in our site rental activities.

Network services and other revenues for 2014 increased $177.8 million, or 36%, from 2013, and is a reflection of (1) the volume of activity from carrier network enhancements such as LTE upgrades, (2) changes in volume and mix, and (3) the expansion in size of our wireless infrastructure portfolio due to the T-Mobile Acquisition and AT&T Acquisition. Our network services offering is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long-term contracts. Network services and other gross margin for 2014 increased by $81.5 million, or 43%, from 2013, primarily as a result of the previously mentioned factors that increased network services and other revenues. 

General and administrative expenses for 2014 increased by $43.8 million, or 21%, from 2013 and represented 7% of net revenues in both 2014 and 2013. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges. See also note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in general and administrative expenses in nominal dollars was commensurate with the growth in our business, including (1) the expansion in size of our wireless infrastructure portfolio primarily due to acquisitions and (2) the growth in network services. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of new tenant additions on our existing wireless infrastructure.

 26

Adjusted EBITDA for 2014 increased by $335.5 million or 20%, from 2013. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the AT&T Acquisition and the growth in our site rental and network services activities.

Depreciation, amortization, and accretion for 2014 increased by $244.4 million, or 33%, from 2013. This increase predominately resulted from the fixed asset and intangible asset additions recorded related to the AT&T Acquisition.

Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs decreased by $16.3 million, or 3%, from 2013 to 2014, as a result of our refinancing activities, partially offset by additional borrowings under the 2012 Credit Facility to partially fund the AT&T Acquisition. During 2014, we issued $850.0 million of 4.875% Senior Notes, which provided us with funding to (1) repay $300.0 million of the January 2010 Tower Revenue Notes and (2) redeem all of the previously outstanding 7.125% Senior Notes. In 2013 and 2014, we completed several debt transactions, resulting in (1) lowering our average cost of debt, (2) funding for our acquisitions, (3) the refinancing of certain of our debt, and (4) the extension of certain of our debt maturities. As a result of repaying and redeeming certain of our debt, we incurred net losses of $44.6 million and $37.1 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings, see note 7 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Our acquisition and integration expenses for 2014 and 2013 were $34.1 million and $25.6 million, respectively, and related to our 2012 and 2013 acquisitions. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

The benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2014 was a benefit of $11.2 million compared to a provision of $191.0 million for 2013. For 2014, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to our REIT status, including the dividends paid deduction. For 2013, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to the de-recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities related to our REIT election resulting in a non-cash income tax charge of $67.4 million. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2014 was income of $361.3 million compared to income of $76.5 million for 2013. The increase in net income was predominately due to a change in our benefit (provision) for income taxes due to our REIT status as further discussed herein. 

Dividends on preferred stock for 2014 and 2013 represented the dividends related to our Convertible Preferred Stock.

CCAL—2014 and 2013. The increases and decreases between 2014 and 2013 were inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars expressed in U.S dollars for 2014 was approximately 0.9028, a decrease of approximately 7% from approximately 0.9687 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Net revenues for 2014 decreased by $5.5 million, or 4%, from 2013, due to the negative impact from the aforementioned change in exchange rates and a decrease in network services and other revenues, partially offset by growth in site rental revenues. Site rental revenues, site rental gross margins, and Adjusted EBITDA increased from 2013 to 2014 by 6%, 8%, and 9%, inclusive of the negative impact from the aforementioned change in exchange rates. Site rental revenues, exclusive of the impact from exchange rates, were also impacted by various other factors, inclusive of straight-line accounting, including, in no particular order: tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of tenant leases, acquisitions, escalations, and non-renewal of tenant leases. 

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2014 was income of $29.2 million, compared to income of $13.6 million for 2013. The net income attributable to CCIC stockholders was impacted by an income tax benefit of $11.3 million due to a resolution with taxing authorities in 2014.

CCUSA—2013 and 2012. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the impact of the 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition.

Net revenues for 2013 increased by $579.4 million, or 25%, from 2012. This increase in net revenues resulted in part from an increase in (1) site rental revenues of $370.3 million, or 19%, and (2) network services and other revenues of $209.1 million, or 73%, in each case as compared to 2012. 

This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight-line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of tenant leases, escalations, other acquisitions, and non-renewals of tenant leases. The 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition also increased our site rental net revenues from 2012 to 2013 by 14% (based on initial run rate revenues from these acquisitions). See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions 

 27

were influenced by our customers' upgrading to LTE and their ongoing efforts to improve network quality and capacity. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company—CCUSA."

Site rental gross margins for 2013 increased by $187.1 million, or 12%, from 2012. The increase in site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 19%, increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2013 increased primarily as a result of (1) the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure and (2) acquisitions. The $187.1 million incremental margin represents 51% of the related increase in site rental revenues, inclusive of the impact of acquisitions.

Network services and other gross margin for 2013 increased by $78.7 million, or 71%, from 2012. The increase in our gross margin from our network services and other revenues is a reflection of the volume of activity from carrier network enhancements such as LTE upgrades, the increase in our market share and the general volatility in the volume and mix of such work. Our network services offering is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long-term leases. 

General and administrative expenses for 2013 increased by $28.6 million, or 15%, from 2012 but decreased to 7% of net revenues in 2013 from 8% of net revenues in 2012. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges. See also note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in general and administrative expenses in nominal dollars was commensurate with the growth in our business as a result of acquisitions. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of adding additional tenants on our wireless infrastructure.

Adjusted EBITDA for 2013 increased by $235.8 million, or 16%, from 2012. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental and network services activities and the 2012 Acquisitions.

Depreciation, amortization, and accretion for 2013 increased by $149.9 million, or 25%, from 2012. The increase predominately resulted from the fixed asset and intangible asset additions related to the NextG Acquisition and the T-Mobile Acquisition.

Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs decreased $11.4 million, or 2%, from 2012 to 2013, as a result of our refinancings during 2012 and 2013, partially offset by additional borrowings to fund the 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition. During 2012 and 2013, we completed several debt transactions, resulting in (1) lowering our average cost of debt, (2) funding for our acquisitions, (3) the refinancing of certain of our debt, and (4) the extension of certain of our debt maturities. 

As a result of our debt transactions, we incurred a net loss of $37.1 million for 2013, inclusive of (1) non-cash losses of $1.1 million resulting from the write-off of deferred financing costs and discounts and (2) cash losses of $36.0 million including with respect to make whole payments. During 2012, as a result of repurchasing and redeeming certain of our debt, we incurred a net loss of $132.0 million, inclusive of (1) non-cash losses of $48.1 million resulting from the write-off of deferred financing costs and discounts and (2) cash losses of $83.9 million including with respect to make whole payments. 

Our acquisition and integration expenses for 2012 and 2013 predominately related to the 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

The benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2013 was a provision of $191.0 million compared to a benefit of $60.1 million for 2012. For 2013, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to the de-recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities related to our REIT election resulting in a non-cash income tax charge of $67.4 million. For 2012, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to the valuation allowance reversal of $115.2 million resulting from (1) the NextG Acquisition and (2) our determination to reverse a portion of the valuation allowance based upon our consideration of our recent historical trends and anticipated future taxable income. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 10 in our consolidated financial statements.

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2013 was income of $76.5 million compared to income of $144.6 million for 2012. The decrease in net income was predominately due to a change in our benefit (provision) for income taxes as discussed above, partially offset by (1) the growth in our existing business, (2) a decrease in interest expense, and (3) a decrease in the net losses on the retirement of debt. 

Dividends on preferred stock for 2013 represented the dividends related to our Convertible Preferred Stock.

CCAL—2013 and 2012. The increases and decreases between 2013 and 2012 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars expressed in U.S dollars for 2013 was approximately 0.9687, a decrease of approximately 6% from approximately 1.036 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

 28

Net revenues for 2013 increased by $10.3 million, or 7%, from 2012. Site rental revenues for 2013 increased by $9.1 million, or 7%, from 2012. The decrease in the exchange rate negatively impacted net revenues by 7% in 2013 from 2012. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors, inclusive of straight-line accounting, including, in no particular order: tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of tenant leases, acquisitions, escalations, and non-renewals of tenant leases.

Site rental gross margins for 2013 increased by $6.4 million, or 7%, from 2012, and Adjusted EBITDA for 2013 increased by $5.7 million, or 8%, from 2012. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were primarily due to the same factors that drove the increase in net revenues. 

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2013 was income of $13.6 million, compared to income of $44.0 million for 2012, inclusive of income tax benefit of $39.9 million resulting from the reversals of the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets. In addition to the valuation allowance reversal, net income was favorably impacted by the growth in the site rental business.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

General. Our core business generates revenues under long-term leases (see "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Overview") predominately from the largest U.S. wireless carriers. Our strategy is to create long-term stockholder value via a combination of (1) growing cash flows generated from our portfolio of wireless infrastructure, (2) returning a meaningful portion of our cash provided by operating activities to our stockholders in the form of dividends and (3) investing capital efficiently to grow long-term dividends per share. We measure our efforts to create "long-term stockholder value" by the combined payment of dividends to stockholders and growth in our per share results. See "Item 1. Business—Strategy" for a further discussion of our strategy. 

We have and expect to continue to engage in discretionary investments that we believe will maximize long-term stockholder value. Our historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing, repaying, or redeeming our debt. Based on recent small cell activity, we expect to spend an increased percentage of our discretionary investments on the construction of new small cell networks. We seek to fund our discretionary investments with both net cash provided by operating activities and cash available from financing capacity, such as the use of our undrawn availability from the 2012 Revolver, debt financings and issuances of equity or equity related securities. 

We seek to maintain a capital structure that we believe drives long-term stockholder value and optimizes our weighted-average cost of capital. We target a leverage ratio of approximately four to five times Adjusted EBITDA and interest coverage of approximately three times Adjusted EBITDA, subject to various factors such as the availability and cost of capital and the potential long-term return on our discretionary investments. We may choose to increase or decrease our leverage or coverage from these targets for various periods of time. 

Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We expect to continue to pay minimal cash income taxes as a result of our recent REIT conversion and our NOLs. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview" and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

Liquidity Position. The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position as of December 31, 2014. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Exclusive of restricted cash.

(b)Availability at any point in time is subject to reaffirmation of the representations and warranties in, and there being no default under, our credit agreement. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities" and "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt Covenants."[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 29

Over the next 12 months: 

•We expect that our cash on hand, undrawn availability from our 2012 Revolver, and net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) should be sufficient to cover our expected (1) debt service obligations of $111 million (principal payments), (2) common stock dividend payments expected to be $3.28 per share, or an aggregate of approximately $1.1 billion during 2015, subject to future approval by our board of directors (see "Item 7. MD&A—Common Dividend"), (3) Convertible Preferred Stock dividend payments of approximately $45 million, and (4) sustaining and discretionary capital expenditures (expected to be equal to or greater than current levels). As CCIC and CCOC are holding companies, this cash flow from operations is generated by our operating subsidiaries.

•We have no scheduled contractual debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We have $508.8 million of debt that has anticipated repayment dates during 2015. Although these anticipated repayment dates are not contractual maturity dates, we expect to refinance this debt prior to the respective anticipated repayment dates. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a tabular presentation of our debt maturities as of December 31, 2014 and a discussion of anticipated repayment dates.

Summary Cash Flows Information 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2014 from 2013 was due primarily to (1) the AT&T Acquisition, (2) growth in our core business, including a net benefit from changes in working capital, and (3) growth in our network services. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2013 from 2012 was due primarily to (1) growth in our core business, including the 2012 Acquisitions and net benefit from changes in working capital, and (2) growth in our network services. Changes in working capital (including changes in accounts receivable, deferred site rental receivables, deferred rental revenues, prepaid ground leases, restricted cash, and accrued interest) can have a significant impact on net cash provided by operating activities, largely due to the timing of prepayments and receipts. We expect to grow our net cash provided by operating activities in the future (exclusive of movements in working capital) if we realize expected growth in our core business.

Investing Activities

Capital Expenditures. We categorize our capital expenditures as sustaining or discretionary. Sustaining capital expenditures include capitalized costs related to (1) maintenance activities on our wireless infrastructure, which are generally related to replacements and upgrades that extend the life of the asset, (2) vehicles, (3) information technology equipment, and (4) office equipment and facility improvements. Discretionary capital expenditures, which we also commonly refer to as "revenue-generating capital expenditures," include (1) purchases of land interests under towers, (2) wireless infrastructure improvements and structural enhancements in order to support additional site rentals, and (3) the construction of wireless infrastructure. 

A summary of our capital expenditures for the last three years is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in sustaining capital expenditures in 2014 was due primarily to the expansion of our office facilities. Our discretionary capital expenditures are made with respect to activities which we believe exhibit sufficient potential to enhance long-

 30

term stockholder value. We expect to continue to invest in capital expenditures (sustaining and discretionary) over the next 12 months at levels equal or greater than current levels. Our decisions regarding capital expenditures are influenced by the availability and cost of capital and expected returns on alternative uses of cash, such as payments of dividends and investments. The following is a discussion of certain aspects of our capital expenditures:

•We endeavor to further extend or purchase (including fee interest and perpetual easements) the land interests under towers. Changes in the mix between purchases, installment purchases and extensions of ground leases may impact the amount of capital expenditures related to purchases of land interests in any given period. 

•Capital expenditures for wireless infrastructure construction and improvements increased during the last three years primarily as a result of improvements to towers to accommodate new tenant additions and small cell network builds. Capital expenditures for wireless infrastructure improvements typically vary based on (1) the type of work performed on the wireless infrastructure, with the installation of a new antenna typically requiring greater capital expenditures than a modification to an existing installation, (2) the existing capacity of the wireless structure prior to installation, or (3) changes in structural engineering regulations and our internal structural standards. 

Acquisitions. Acquisitions consist of the acquisition of businesses such as towers, small cells, and third party land sites. See notes 3 and 5 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the AT&T Acquisition and the 2012 Acquisitions.

Financing Activities

We seek to allocate cash generated by our operations in a manner that will enhance long-term stockholder value, which may include various financing activities, such as (in no particular order) paying dividends on our common stock (currently expected to total an aggregate of approximately $1.1 billion during 2015, subject to future approval by our board of directors), paying dividends on our Convertible Preferred Stock (expected to be approximately $45 million in 2015), purchasing our common stock, or purchasing, repaying, or redeeming our debt. See note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2013, our financing activities predominately related to our October 2013 Equity Financings and our 2012 Credit Facility borrowings and amendments. In 2014, our financing activities predominately related to (1) paying an aggregate of $624.3 million in dividends on our common stock, (2) amending our 2012 Credit Facility and (3) issuing $850.0 million of 4.875% Senior Notes, due in April 2022, which provided us with funding to repay $300.0 million of January 2010 Tower Revenue Notes and redeem all of the previously outstanding 7.125% Senior Notes. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview" and note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

Incurrence of Debt and Other Obligations. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our issuances of debt during 2013 and 2014, which extended the maturities of our debt portfolio, provided funding for our acquisitions and our retirement and redemption of previously existing debt, and lowered our cost of debt. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview—Liquidity Position." Highlights of the security for our debt is as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We have pledged certain of our deposit accounts in connection with certain of our debt agreements. 

Debt Purchases and Repayments. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our repurchases, redemptions and repayments of debt during 2013 and 2014.

Common Stock. As of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, we had 333.9 million, 334.1 million, and 293.2 million common shares outstanding, respectively. In October 2013, we issued 41.4 million shares of common stock, the net proceeds of which were used to partially fund the AT&T Acquisition. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we paid an aggregate of $624.3 million in dividends on our common stock. See "Item 1. Business—Strategy" and note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Preferred Stock. In October 2013, we issued 9.8 million shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, the net proceeds of which were used to partially fund the AT&T Acquisition. Unless converted earlier, each outstanding share of the Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically convert on November 1, 2016. Currently, each share of Convertible Preferred Stock will convert into between 1.1080 and 1.3850 shares of common stock, depending on the applicable market value of the common stock and subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. At any time prior to November 1, 2016, holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock may elect to convert all or a portion of their shares into common stock at the minimum conversion rate of 1.1080, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments.

Revolving Credit Facility. Our 2012 Credit Facility consists of (1) our 2012 Revolver and (2) term loan facilities ("2012 Term Loans").

 31

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Restricted Cash. Pursuant to the indentures governing certain of our operating companies' debt securities, all rental cash receipts of the issuers of these debt instruments and their subsidiaries are restricted and held by an indenture trustee. The restricted cash in excess of required reserve balances is subsequently released to us in accordance with the terms of the indentures. During 2012, $316.6 million of restricted cash was held by the trustee in connection with the redemption of the 7.75% secured notes. That amount was subsequently released in January 2013 when the 7.75% secured notes were redeemed in their entirety. See also notes 2 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

Contractual Cash Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2014. These contractual cash obligations relate primarily to our outstanding borrowings or lease obligations for land interests under our towers. The debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates on the tower revenue notes (see footnote (b)) and the WCP securitized notes (see footnote (c)). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)The following items are in addition to the obligations disclosed in the above table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We are contractually obligated to pay or reimburse others for property taxes related to our wireless infrastructure.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We have legal obligations for open purchase order commitments obtained in the ordinary course of business that have not yet been fulfilled.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of our WCP securitized notes are not included. The anticipated repayment date is 2015 for each class of the WCP securitized notes. If the WCP securitized notes with a current face value of $258.8 million are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture governing the WCP securitized notes) of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their 

 32

contractual maturity dates in 2040. The full year 2014 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $8.0 million. We currently expect to refinance these notes on or prior to the respective anticipated repayment dates.

(d)Interest payments on the floating rate debt are based on estimated rates currently in effect.

(e)Amounts relate primarily to lease obligations for the land interests on which our wireless infrastructure resides and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights. See table below summarizing remaining terms to expiration.

The following table summarizes our rights to the land interests under our towers, including renewal terms at our option, as of December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the leases for land interests under our towers had an average remaining life of approximately 30 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Inclusive of renewal terms at our option.

(b)For the year ended December 31, 2014.

(c)Without consideration of the term of the tenant lease.

(d)Inclusive of fee interests and perpetual easements.

Debt Covenants

The credit agreement governing the 2012 Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants. We are currently in compliance with these financial maintenance covenants and, based upon our current expectations, we believe we will continue to comply with these financial maintenance covenants. In addition, certain of our debt agreements also contain restrictive covenants that place restrictions on us and may limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt and liens, purchase our securities, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, undertake transactions with affiliates, make other investments, pay dividends or distribute excess cash flow. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt covenants. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." The following are ratios applicable to the financial maintenance covenants under the credit agreement governing our 2012 Credit Facility as of December 31, 2014. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Failure to comply with the financial maintenance covenants would, absent a waiver, result in an event of default under the credit agreement governing our 2012 Credit Facility.

(b)As defined in credit agreement governing the 2012 Credit Facility.

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.

 33

Accounting and Reporting Matters

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The following is a discussion of the accounting policies and estimates that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations or (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The critical accounting policies and estimates for 2014 are not intended to be a comprehensive list of our accounting policies and estimates. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP. In other cases, management is required to exercise judgment in the application of accounting principles with respect to particular transactions.

Revenue Recognition. 81% of our total revenue for 2014 consists of site rental revenues, which are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the relevant lease (generally ranging from five to 15 years), regardless of whether the payments from the tenant are received in equal monthly amounts. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases), upfront payments or rent free periods, the revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the lease. When calculating our straight-line rental revenues, we consider all fixed elements of tenant contractual escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions contain a variable element (such as an escalator tied to an inflation-based index) in addition to a minimum. To the extent we acquire below-market tenant leases for contractual interests with tenants on the acquired wireless infrastructure (for example with respect to small cells) we record deferred credits and amortize such deferred credits to site rental revenues over their estimated lease term. Since we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis, a portion of the site rental revenue in a given period represents cash collected or contractually collectible in other periods. Our assets related to straight-line site rental revenues are included in "other current assets" and "deferred site rental receivables, net." Amounts billed or received prior to being earned are deferred and reflected in "deferred revenues" and "other long-term liabilities." See notes 2 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements.

We provide network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, which represent approximately 19% of our total revenues for 2014. Network services and other revenue relate to installation services and the following additional site development services relating to our wireless infrastructure: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, zoning or permitting, or network development related services. Network services revenues are recognized after completion of the applicable service. We account for network services separately from the customer's site rental. 

See "Item 1. Business—The Company—CCUSA" for a further discussion of our business. 

Accounting for Acquisitions — General. As described in "Item 1. Business," much of our wireless infrastructure has been acquired in various transactions from the four largest U.S. wireless carriers (or their predecessors) through transactions consummated since 1999. We evaluate each of our acquisitions to determine if it should be accounted for as a business combination or as an acquisition of assets. For our business combinations, we allocate the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Any purchase price in excess of the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Accounting for Acquisitions—Valuation" below. 

The determination of the final purchase price allocation could extend over several quarters resulting in the use of preliminary estimates that are subject to adjustment until finalized. Such changes could have a significant impact on our financial statements and could result in retrospective changes in results reported for the acquired business in prior periods in accordance with GAAP. 

Accounting for Acquisitions — Leases. With respect to business combinations that include towers that we lease and operate, such as the T-Mobile, Sprint, and AT&T leased and subleased towers, we evaluate such agreements to determine treatment as capital or operating leases. The evaluation of such agreements for capital or operating lease treatment includes consideration of each of the lease classification criteria under ASC 840-10-25, namely (1) the transfer of ownership provisions, (2) the existence of bargain purchase options, (3) the length of the remaining lease term, and (4) the present value of the minimum lease payments. With respect to the AT&T Acquisition, T-Mobile Acquisition, and the Sprint towers acquired in the Global Signal Acquisition, we determined that the tower leases were capital leases and the underlying land leases were operating leases based upon the lease term criterion, after considering the fragmentation criteria applicable under ASC 840-10-25 to leases involving both land and buildings (i.e., towers). We determined that the fragmentation criteria was met, and the tower leases could be accounted for as capital leases apart from the land leases, which are accounted for as operating leases, since (1) the fair value of the land in the aforementioned business combinations was greater than 25% of the total fair value of the leased property at inception and (2) the tower lease expirations occur beyond 75% of the estimated economic life of the tower assets.

Accounting for Acquisitions — Valuation. As of December 31, 2014, our largest asset was property and equipment, which primarily consists of wireless infrastructure, followed by goodwill and intangible assets (approximately $5.2 billion and $3.7 

 34

billion in net book value, respectively). Our identifiable intangible assets predominately relate to the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the nature and composition of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets.

The fair value of the vast majority of our assets and liabilities is determined by using either:

(1)estimates of replacement costs (for tangible fixed assets such as towers), or

(2)discounted cash flow valuation methods (for estimating identifiable intangibles such as site rental contracts and customer relationships and above-market and below-market leases).

The purchase price allocation requires subjective estimates that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements, including the amount of depreciation, amortization, and accretion expense. The most important estimates for measurement of tangible fixed assets are (1) the cost to replace the asset with a new asset and (2) the economic useful life after giving effect to age, quality, and condition. The most important estimates for measurement of intangible assets are (1) discount rates and (2) timing and amount of cash flows including estimates regarding customer renewals and cancellations. The most important estimates for measurement of above and below-market leases is the determination of (1) favorability or unfavorability to the current market terms and (2) applicable lease term, including whether renewals or extensions should be measured. With respect to business combinations that include towers that we lease and operate, such as the T-Mobile, Sprint, and AT&T leased and subleased towers, we evaluate such agreements to determine treatment as capital or operating leases and identification of any bargain purchase options. 

We record the fair value of obligations to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements, pursuant to our ground leases or easements, to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. In determining the fair value of these asset retirement obligations we must make several subjective and highly judgmental estimates such as those related to: (1) timing of cash flows, (2) future costs, (3) discount rates, and (4) the probability of enforcement to remove the towers or small cells or remediate the land. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Useful Lives. We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets for purposes of determining depreciation, amortization, and accretion expense that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of tangible assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our wireless infrastructure which is depreciated with an estimated useful life equal to the shorter of (1) 20 years or (2) the term of the lease (including optional renewals) for the land interests under the wireless infrastructure.

The useful life of our intangible assets is estimated based on the period over which the intangible asset is expected to benefit us and gives consideration to the expected useful life of other assets to which the useful life may relate. We review the expected useful lives of our intangible assets on an ongoing basis and adjust if necessary. Amortization expense for intangible assets is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of each of the intangible assets. The useful life of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets is limited by the maximum depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure (20 years), as a result of the interdependency of the wireless infrastructure and site rental contracts and customer relationships. In contrast, the site rental contracts and customer relationships are estimated to provide economic benefits for several decades because of the low rate of tenant cancellations and high rate of renewals experienced to date. Thus, while site rental contracts and customer relationships are valued based upon the fair value of the site rental contracts and customer relationships which includes assumptions regarding both (1) tenants' exercise of optional renewals contained in the acquired leases and (2) renewals of the acquired leases past the contractual term including exercisable options, the site rental contracts are amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years as a result of the useful life being limited by the depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Intangibles. We review the carrying values of property and equipment, intangible assets, or other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We utilize the following dual grouping policy for purposes of determining the unit of account for testing impairment of the site rental contracts and customer relationships:

(1)we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups, and

(2)we separately pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant tenant or by tenant grouping for individually insignificant tenants, as appropriate.

We first pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing, because we view wireless infrastructure as portfolios and wireless infrastructure in a given portfolio and its related tenant leases are not largely independent of the other wireless 

 35

infrastructure in the portfolio. We re-evaluate the appropriateness of the pooled groups at least annually. This use of grouping is based in part on (1) our limitations regarding disposal of wireless infrastructure, (2) the interdependencies of wireless infrastructure portfolios, and (3) the manner in which wireless infrastructure is traded in the marketplace. The vast majority of our site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment are pooled into the U.S. owned wireless infrastructure group. Secondly, and separately, we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant tenant or by tenant grouping for individually insignificant tenants, as appropriate, for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing because we associate the value ascribed to site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets to the underlying contracts and related customer relationships acquired.

Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an asset's financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an asset's financial performance compared to forecasted results, or (3) changes affecting the utility and estimated future demands for the asset. When considering the utility of our assets, we consider events that would meaningfully impact (1) our wireless infrastructure or (2) our customer relationships. For example, consideration would be given to events that impact (1) the structural integrity and longevity of our wireless infrastructure or (2) our ability to derive benefit from our existing customer relationships, including events such as bankruptcy or insolvency or loss of a significant customer. During 2014, there were no events or circumstances that caused us to review the carrying value of our intangible assets or property and equipment due in part to our assets performing consistently with or better than our expectations.

If the sum of the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from an asset, or portfolio group, significant tenant or tenant group (for individually insignificant tenants), as applicable, is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss may be recognized. If the carrying value were to exceed the undiscounted cash flows, measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the fair value of the asset, which is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. The most important estimates for such calculations of undiscounted cash flows are (1) the expected additions of new tenants and equipment on our wireless infrastructure and (2) estimates regarding tenant cancellations and renewals of leases. We could record impairments in the future if changes in long-term market conditions, expected future operating results or the utility of the assets results in changes for our impairment test calculations which negatively impact the fair value of our property and equipment and intangible assets, or if we changed our unit of account in the future.

When grouping assets into pools for purposes of impairment evaluation, we also consider individual towers, nodes, and third party land interests within a grouping for which we currently have no tenants. Approximately 2% of our total towers currently have no tenants. We continue to pay operating expenses on these towers in anticipation of obtaining tenants on these towers in the future, primarily because of the individual tower site demographics. We estimate, based on current visibility, potential tenants on approximately half of these towers. To the extent we do not believe there are long-term prospects of obtaining tenants on an individual tower, node, or third party land interest and all other possible avenues for recovering the carrying value has been exhausted, including sale of the asset, we appropriately reduce the carrying value of such assets to fair value.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Goodwill. Nearly all of our goodwill is recorded at CCUSA. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. The annual test begins with goodwill and all intangible assets being allocated to applicable reporting units. We then perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Our reporting units are the operating segments (CCUSA and CCAL) since segment management operates their respective wireless infrastructure portfolios as a single network. 

We performed our most recent annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2014, which resulted in no impairments. This assessment included consideration of our market capitalization which exceeded over three times the aggregate carrying amount of the reporting units as of December 31, 2014. 

Deferred Income Taxes. Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our REIT taxable income is generally not subject to federal and state income taxes as a result of the deduction for dividends paid and any usage of our remaining NOLs. Accordingly, the only provision for federal income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2014 relates to TRSs. Furthermore, as a result of the deduction for dividends paid, some or all of our NOLs related to our REIT may expire without utilization. See “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—REIT Election" for a discussion of the impact of our REIT election. 

Our TRSs will continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state income taxes and foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located. See “Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—REIT Election" for a discussion of the the private letter ruling we received in August 2014 regarding our small cells. 

 36

For our TRSs, we record deferred income tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet related to events that impact our financial statements and tax returns in different periods. In order to compute these deferred tax balances, we first analyze the differences between the book basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities (referred to as "temporary differences"). These temporary differences are then multiplied by current tax rates to arrive at the balances for the deferred income tax assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets that do not meet the "more likely than not" realization threshold. We recognize a tax position if it is more likely than not it will be sustained upon examination. The tax position is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. 

If our expectations about the future tax consequences of past events should prove to be inaccurate, the balances of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities could require significant adjustments in future periods. Our ability to utilize our NOLs is dependent, in part, upon our having sufficient future earnings to utilize our NOLs before they expire. If market conditions change materially and we determine that we will be unable to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, we would be required to record an additional valuation allowance, which would reduce our earnings. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. The change in our valuation allowance has no effect on our cash flows. For a further discussion of our benefit (provision) for income taxes and our REIT conversion, see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments" and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

Accounting Pronouncements

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. No accounting pronouncements adopted during the year ended December 31, 2014 had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") released updated guidance regarding the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers, exclusive of those contracts within lease accounting. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and accretion, as adjusted, or Adjusted EBITDA. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is set forth in "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments." Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income or loss, net income or loss, net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities, or other income statement or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.

We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because:

•it is the primary measure used by our management to evaluate the economic productivity of our operations, including the efficiency of our employees and the profitability associated with their performance, the realization of lease revenue under our long-term leases, our ability to obtain and maintain our tenants, and our ability to operate our wireless infrastructure effectively;

•it is the primary measure of profit and loss used by management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;

•it is similar to the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations;

•although specific definitions may vary, it is widely used in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure to measure operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, amortization and accretion, which can vary depending upon accounting methods and the book value of assets; and

•we believe it helps investors meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations (1) from period to period and (2) to our competitors by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results.

Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:

•with respect to compliance with our debt covenants, which require us to maintain certain financial ratios including, or similar to, Adjusted EBITDA;

•as the primary measure of profit and loss for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;

•as a performance goal in employee annual incentive compensation;

 37

•as a measurement of operating performance because it assists us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as it removes the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization, and accretion) from our operating results;

•in presentations to our board of directors to enable it to have the same measurement of operating performance used by management;

•for planning purposes, including preparation of our annual operating budget;

•as a valuation measure in strategic analyses in connection with the purchase and sale of assets; and

•in determining self-imposed limits on our debt levels, including the evaluation of our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio.

There are material limitations to using a measure such as Adjusted EBITDA, including the difficulty associated with comparing results among more than one company, including our competitors, and the inability to analyze certain significant items, including depreciation and interest expense, that directly affect our net income or loss. Management compensates for these limitations by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with their analysis of net income (loss).

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk