Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Our primary exposures to market risks are related to changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We seek to manage exposure to changes in interest rates where economically prudent to do so by utilizing fixed rate debt. We do not currently hedge against foreign currency exchange risks.

Interest Rate Risk

Our interest rate risk relates primarily to the impact of interest rate movements on the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•potential future borrowings of incremental debt.

Potential Refinancing of Existing Debt

Over the next 12 months we have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We have $508.8 million of debt that has anticipated repayment dates during 2015. While these anticipated repayment dates are not contractual maturity dates, we expect to refinance this debt prior to the respective anticipated repayment dates. As of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, we had no interest rate swaps hedging any refinancings. See below for a tabular presentation of our scheduled contractual debt maturities as of December 31, 2014 and a discussion of anticipated repayment dates. 

Floating Rate Debt

We manage our exposure to market interest rates on our existing debt by controlling the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2014, we had $4.2 billion of floating rate debt, which included $2.8 billion of debt with a LIBOR floor of 0.75% per annum. As a result, a hypothetical unfavorable fluctuation in market interest rates on our existing debt of 1/8 of a percent point over a 12-month period would increase our interest expense by approximately $2 million when giving effect to our LIBOR floor and would increase our interest expense by approximately $5 million exclusive of the impact of the LIBOR floor. As of December 31, 2013, we had $3.9 billion of floating rate debt, which included $2.9 billion of debt with a LIBOR floor of 0.75% per annum. 

Potential Future Borrowings of Incremental Debt

We typically do not hedge our exposure to interest rates on potential future borrowings of incremental debt for a substantial period prior to issuance. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" regarding our liquidity strategy.

 38

The following table provides information about our market risk related to changes in interest rates. The future principal payments and weighted-average interest rates are presented as of December 31, 2014. These debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates, and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of certain notes (see footnotes (c) and (d)). See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)The fair value of our debt is based on indicative quotes (that is, non-binding quotes) from brokers that require judgment to interpret market information, including implied credit spreads for similar borrowings on recent trades or bid/ask offers. These fair values are not necessarily indicative of the amount, which could be realized in a current market exchange.

(b)The average interest rate represents the weighted-average stated coupon rate (see footnote (c)).[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(e)The average variable interest rate is based on the currently observable forward rates. The 2012 Revolver and the Tranche A Term Loans bear interest at a per annum rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.5% to 2.25%, based on CCOC's total net leverage ratio. The Tranche B Term Loans bear interest at a per annum rate equal to LIBOR (with LIBOR subject to a floor of 75 basis points per annum) plus 2.25% to 2.5%, based on CCOC's total net leverage ratio.

(f)Predominately consists of $500 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.381% secured notes due 2017.

(g)Predominately consists of the 2012 Revolver and Tranche A Term Loans. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

 39

Foreign Currency Risk

The vast majority of our foreign currency risk is related to the Australian dollar which is the functional currency of CCAL. CCAL represented 4% and 5%, respectively, of our consolidated revenues and 5% and 4%, respectively, of our consolidated operating income for 2014 and 2013. See "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments." Foreign exchange markets have recently been volatile, and we expect foreign exchange markets to continue to be volatile over the near term. We believe the risk related to our financial instruments (exclusive of inter-company financing deemed a long-term investment) denominated in Australian dollars is not significant to our financial condition. A hypothetical increase or decrease of 25% in Australian dollar exchange rate would increase or decrease the fair value of our financial instruments by approximately $9 million.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data