PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

We own, operate and lease shared wireless infrastructure, including: (1) towers and other structures, such as rooftops (collectively, "towers"), and to a lesser extent, (2) distributed antenna systems ("DAS"), a type of small cell network ("small cells"), and (3) interests in land under third party towers in various forms ("third party land interests") (collectively, "wireless infrastructure"). Our core business is providing access, including space or capacity, to our wireless infrastructure via long-term contracts in various forms, including license, sublease and lease agreements (collectively, "leases"). Our wireless infrastructure can accommodate multiple tenants for antennas or other equipment necessary for the transmission of signals for wireless communication devices. We seek to increase our site rental revenues by adding more tenants on our wireless infrastructure, which we expect to result in significant incremental cash flows due to our relatively fixed operating costs. 

Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—REIT Election."

Certain information concerning our business as of December 31, 2014 is as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We owned, including fee interests and perpetual easements, land and other property interests (collectively, "land") on which approximately one-third of our site rental gross margin is derived, and we leased, subleased, managed or licensed (collectively, "leased") the land interests on which approximately two-thirds of our site rental gross margin is derived. The leases for the land interests under our towers had an average remaining life of approximately 30 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin.

Certain information concerning our customers and site rental leases as of and for the year ended December 31, 2014 is as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Our site rental revenues are of a recurring nature, and typically in excess of 90% have been contracted for in a prior year, excluding the impact of current year acquisitions. 

•Our site rental revenues typically result from long-term leases with (1) initial terms of five to 15 years, (2) multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each, (3) limited termination rights for our tenants, and (4) contractual escalations of the rental price. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As part of our effort to provide comprehensive wireless infrastructure solutions, we offer certain network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, predominately consisting of (1) installation of tenant equipment or subsequent augmentation (collectively, "installation services") and (2) the following additional site development services: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, or zoning and permitting. 

 1

Strategy

Our strategy is to create long-term stockholder value via a combination of (1) growing cash flows generated from our portfolio of wireless infrastructure, (2) returning a meaningful portion of our cash provided by operating activities to our stockholders in the form of dividends and (3) investing capital efficiently to grow long-term dividends per share. We measure our efforts to create "long-term stockholder value" by the combined payment of dividends to stockholders and growth in our per share results. The key elements of our strategy are to:

•Grow cash flows from our wireless infrastructure. We seek to maximize the site rental cash flows derived from our wireless infrastructure by adding tenants on our wireless infrastructure through long-term leases as our customers deploy and improve their wireless networks. We seek to maximize new tenant additions or modifications of existing tenant installations (collectively, "new tenant additions") through our focus on customer service and deployment speed. Due to the relatively fixed nature of the costs to operate our wireless infrastructure (which tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation), we expect increases in our site rental cash flows from new tenant additions and the related subsequent impact from contracted escalations to result in growth in our operating cash flows. We believe there is considerable additional future demand for our existing wireless infrastructure based on their location and the anticipated growth in the wireless communication services industry. Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate additional tenancy, either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure, which we expect to have high incremental returns. 

•Return cash provided by operating activities to stockholders in the form of dividends. We believe that distributing a meaningful portion of our cash provided by operating activities appropriately provides stockholders with increased certainty for a portion of expected long-term stockholder value while still retaining sufficient flexibility to invest in our business and deliver growth. We believe this decision reflects the translation of the high-quality, long-term contractual cash flows of our business into stable capital returns to stockholders. 

•Invest capital efficiently to grow long-term dividends per share. We seek to invest our capital available, including the net cash provided by our operating activities and external financing sources, in a manner that will increase long-term stockholder value on a risk-adjusted basis. Our historical investments have included the following (in no particular order):

◦purchase shares of our common stock from time to time;

◦acquire or construct wireless infrastructure;

◦acquire land interests under towers;

◦make improvements and structural enhancements to our existing wireless infrastructure; or

◦purchase, repay or redeem our debt.

Our strategy to create long-term stockholder value is based on our belief that additional demand for our wireless infrastructure will be created by the expected continued growth in the wireless communication services industry, which is predominately driven by the demand for wireless data services by consumers. We believe that such demand for our wireless infrastructure will continue, will result in growth of our cash flows due to new tenant additions on our existing wireless infrastructure, and will create other growth opportunities for us, such as demand for new wireless infrastructure.

2014 Industry Highlights and Company Developments

See "Item 1. Business—Overview," "Item 7. MD&A" and our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of developments and activities that occurred in 2014, including (1) the commencement of, and subsequent increase in, our quarterly cash common stock dividend, (2) our debt refinancing activities during 2014 ("2014 Refinancings") and (3) the commencement of our operating as a REIT.

As discussed above and in "Item 7. MD&A," we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes effective January 1, 2014. Our small cells are currently included in one or more wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRSs"). In August 2014, we received a favorable private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), which provides that the real property portion of our small cells and the related rents qualify as real property and rents from real property, respectively, under the rules governing REITs. We are evaluating the impact of this private letter ruling and, subject to board approval, we expect to take appropriate action to include at least some part of our small cells as part of the REIT during 2015. Once we have completed our evaluation and necessary actions to include small cells in the REIT, we expect to de-recognize our net deferred tax liabilities related to such part of our small cells. 

Additionally, we have included in TRSs our tower operations in Australia and certain other assets and operations. Those TRS assets and operations (along with any part of our small cells that may remain in a TRS) will continue to be subject, as 

 2

applicable, to federal and state corporate income taxes and to foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located. Our foreign assets and operations (including our tower operations in Puerto Rico and Australia) most likely will be subject to foreign income taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located, regardless of whether they are included in a TRS or not. 

As a REIT, we are generally entitled to a deduction for dividends that we pay and therefore are not subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our taxable income that is currently distributed to our stockholders (see "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risk Relating to Our REIT Election" and notes 2 and 10 to our consolidated financial statements). The increase to our common stock dividend announced in October 2014 will delay the utilization of our NOLs and may cause certain of the NOLs to expire without utilization.

During 2014, consumer demand for wireless services continued to grow. This growth in wireless services is driven by the increased usage of wireless data applications, including (1) mobile entertainment (such as mobile video, mobile applications, and social networking), (2) mobile internet usage (such as email and web browsing) and (3) machine-to-machine applications. As a result, consumer wireless devices are trending toward bandwidth-intensive devices such as smartphones, laptops, tablets and other emerging devices.

The major U.S. wireless carriers are in various stages of deploying 4G long-term evolution ("LTE") networks, which has translated into additional demand for our wireless infrastructure. We expect that consumers' growing wireless consumption will likely result in wireless carriers continuing to invest in network capital expenditures that focus on improving network quality and capacity by adding additional antennas or other equipment for the transmission of their services to wireless infrastructure in an effort to improve customer retention or satisfaction. Additionally, spectrum licensed by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") has enabled continued wireless carrier network development. We expect this development and the potential availability of additional spectrum through several planned government auctions to enable continued future carrier network development and potential demand for our wireless infrastructure.

The Company

Virtually all of our operations are located in the U.S. and Australia. We conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries of Crown Castle Operating Company ("CCOC"), including (1) certain subsidiaries which operate our wireless infrastructure portfolios in the U.S. and (2) a 77.6% owned subsidiary that operates our Australia tower portfolio. For more information about our operating segments, as well as financial information about the geographic areas in which we operate, see note 15 to our consolidated financial statements and "Item 7. MD&A."

CCUSA

Site Rental. The core business of CCUSA is providing access, including space or capacity, to our wireless infrastructure in the U.S. We predominately provide access to wireless carriers under long-term leases for their antennas which transmit a variety of signals related to wireless voice and data. We believe our wireless infrastructure is integral to our customers' networks and their ability to serve their customers. 

We acquired ownership interests or exclusive rights to the majority of our towers in CCUSA from the four largest U.S. wireless carriers (or their predecessors) through transactions consummated since 1999, including transactions with (1) AT&T in 2013 ("AT&T Acquisition"), (2) T-Mobile in 2012 ("T-Mobile Acquisition"), (3) Global Signal Inc. in 2007 ("Global Signal Acquisition") , which had originally acquired the majority of its towers from Sprint, (4) companies now part of Verizon Wireless during 1999 and 2000, and (5) companies now part of AT&T during 1999 and 2000. Our small cell assets include those acquired from NextG Networks, Inc. in 2012 ("NextG Acquisition").

We generally receive monthly rental payments from tenants, payable under long-term leases. We have existing master lease agreements with most U.S. wireless carriers, including Verizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint, and T-Mobile; such agreements provide certain terms (including economic terms) that govern leases on our towers entered into by such carriers during the term of their master lease agreements. We generally negotiate initial contract terms of five to 15 years, with multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each, and our leases typically include fixed escalations. We continue to endeavor to negotiate with our existing customer base for longer contractual terms, which often contain fixed escalation rates. 

Our tenant leases have historically had a high renewal rate. With limited exceptions, our tenant leases may not be terminated prior to the end of their current term, and non-renewals have averaged approximately 2% of site rental revenues over the last five years. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" regarding future anticipated non-renewals as a result of the Sprint iDEN decommissioning and the decommissioning, at least in part, of the former Leap Wireless, MetroPCS and Clearwire networks ("Acquired Networks"). In general, each tenant lease which is renewable will automatically renew at the end of its term unless the tenant provides prior 

 3

notice of its intent not to renew. See note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the minimum rental cash payments due to us by tenants pursuant to tenant agreements without consideration of tenant renewal options.

The average monthly rental payment of a new tenant added to wireless infrastructure can vary based on (1) aggregate tenant volume, (2) the different regions in the U.S., or (3) the physical size, weight and shape of the antenna installation and related equipment. With respect to our small cells, the amount of the monthly payments can also be influenced by similar factors, as well as the amount or cost of (1) construction for initial and subsequent tenants, (2) fiber strands, (3) equipment at the site, or (4) any upfront payments received. We also routinely receive rental payment increases in connection with lease amendments, pursuant to which our tenants add additional antennas or other equipment to wireless infrastructure on which they already have equipment pursuant to preexisting leases. 

In excess of two-thirds of our direct site operating expenses consist of lease expenses and the remainder includes property taxes, repairs and maintenance, employee compensation or related benefit costs, or utilities. Our cash operating expenses tend to escalate at approximately the rate of inflation, partially offset by reductions in cash lease expenses from our purchases of land interests. As a result of the relatively fixed nature of these expenditures, the addition of new tenants is achieved at a low incremental operating cost, resulting in high incremental operating cash flows. Our wireless infrastructure portfolio requires minimal sustaining capital expenditures, including maintenance or other non-discretionary capital expenditures, and are typically less than 2% of net revenues. See note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the rental cash payments owed by us to landlords pursuant to our contractual agreements.

Network Services. As part of CCUSA's effort to provide comprehensive solutions, it offers certain network services relating to its wireless infrastructure, predominately consisting of (1) installation services and (2) the following additional site development services: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, or zoning and permitting. For 2014, 55% of CCUSA's network services and other revenues related to installation services, and the remainder predominately related to additional site development services. We have grown our network service revenues over the last several years as a result of increased volumes resulting from carrier network upgrades, promoting site development services, expanding the scope of our services, and our focus on customer service and deployment speed. We have the capability and expertise to install, with the assistance of our network of subcontractors, equipment or antenna systems for our customers. We do not always provide the installation or site development services for our customers on our wireless infrastructure as third parties also provide these services (see also "—Competition" below). These activities are typically non-recurring and highly competitive, with a number of local competitors in most markets. Typically, our antenna installation services are billed on a cost-plus profit basis and site development services are billed on a fixed fee basis. 

Customers. We work extensively with large national wireless carriers, and in general, our customers are primarily comprised of providers of wireless services that operate national or regional networks. In the U.S., our four largest customers (AT&T, Sprint, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless) accounted for an aggregate of 88% of our 2014 consolidated site rental revenues. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" and note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Sales and Marketing. Our sales organization markets our wireless infrastructure within the wireless communication services industry with the objective of providing access to existing wireless infrastructure or to new wireless infrastructure prior to construction . We seek to become the critical partner and preferred independent wireless infrastructure provider for our customers and increase customer satisfaction relative to our peers by leveraging our (1) customer relationships, (2) process-centric approach, and (3) technological tools.

A team of national account directors maintains our relationships with our largest customers. These directors work to develop wireless infrastructure leasing, as well as to ensure that customers' wireless infrastructure needs are efficiently translated into new leases on our wireless infrastructure. Sales personnel in our area offices develop and maintain local relationships with our customers that are expanding their networks, entering new markets, bringing new technologies to market or requiring maintenance or add-on business. In addition to our full-time sales or marketing staff, a number of senior managers and officers spend a significant portion of their time on sales and marketing activities and call on existing or prospective customers.

Competition. We face competition for site rental tenants from various sources, including:

•other independent wireless infrastructure owners or operators, including towers, rooftops, water towers, broadcast towers, utility poles, fiber providers, DAS or other small cells;

•wireless carriers that own and operate their own wireless infrastructure and lease antenna space to other wireless communication companies; or

•new alternative deployment methods in the wireless communication industry.

Some of the larger independent tower companies with which we compete in the U.S. include American Tower Corporation and SBA Communications Corporation. We believe that tower location, deployment speed, quality of service, capacity and price 

 4

have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting the leasing of wireless infrastructure. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

Competitors in our network services offering include site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners or managers, radio frequency engineering consultants, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors, or our customers' internal staff. We believe that our customers base their decisions on the outsourcing of network services on criteria such as a company's experience, track record, local reputation, price, or time for completion of a project.

CCAL

Our primary business in Australia is providing access to space on towers to our customers. We own 77.6% of CCAL. CCAL is the largest independent tower operator in Australia. As of December 31, 2014, 55% of CCAL's towers were located in seven major metropolitan areas. The majority of CCAL's towers were acquired from Optus (in 2000) and Vodafone (in 2001). For 2014, CCAL comprised approximately 4% of our consolidated net revenues. CCAL's principal customers are Telstra, Optus, and Vodafone Hutchison Australia, which collectively accounted for approximately 85% of CCAL's 2014 revenues. In addition, we believe that the continued development of the National Broadband Network, a national high-speed open-access data network, may result in additional future demand for new tenant additions on CCAL's existing towers or the construction of new towers.

In Australia, CCAL competes with wireless carriers that own and operate their own tower networks and other site owners, including Broadcast Australia, an independent operator of broadcast towers. We believe that tower location, capacity, quality of service, deployment speed, or price within a geographic market are the most significant competitive factors affecting the leasing of wireless infrastructure in Australia.

In February 2015, we announced plans to explore the potential sale of CCAL. There can be no assurances that the exploration of a potential sale will result in a transaction. 

Employees

At January 31, 2015, we employed approximately 2,400 people worldwide, including approximately 2,200 in the U.S. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages, and management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Regulatory and Environmental Matters

To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international regulations. The summary below is based on regulations currently in effect, and such regulations are subject to review or modification by the applicable governmental authority from time to time. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be fined or even lose our rights to conduct some of our business.

United States

We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state, and local regulations and laws in the U.S., including FCC and Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") regulations and those discussed under "—Environmental" below.

Federal Regulations. Both the FCC and the FAA regulate towers used for wireless communications, radio, or television broadcasting. Such regulations control the siting, lighting, or marking of towers and may, depending on the characteristics of particular towers, require the registration of tower facilities with the FCC and the issuance of determinations confirming no hazard to air traffic. Wireless communications devices operating on towers are separately regulated and independently licensed based upon the particular frequency used. In addition, the FCC and the FAA have developed standards to consider proposals for new or modified tower or antenna structures based upon the height or location, including proximity to airports. Proposals to construct or to modify existing tower or antenna structures above certain heights are reviewed by the FAA to ensure the structure will not present a hazard to aviation, which determination may be conditioned upon compliance with lighting or marking requirements. The FCC requires its licensees to operate communications devices only on towers that comply with FAA rules and are registered with the FCC, if required by its regulations. Where tower lighting is required by FAA regulation, tower owners bear the responsibility of notifying the FAA of any tower lighting outage and ensuring the timely restoration of such outages. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties.

Local Regulations. The U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 to preserve state and local zoning authorities' jurisdiction over the siting of communications towers and small cells. The law, however, limits local zoning authority by prohibiting actions by local authorities that discriminate between different service providers of wireless services 

 5

or ban altogether the provision of wireless services. Additionally, the law prohibits state and local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the facilities comply with FCC regulations.

Local regulations include city and other local ordinances (including subdivision and zoning ordinances), approvals for construction, modification and removal of towers and small cells, and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly, but typically require us to obtain approval from local officials prior to tower construction. Local zoning authorities may render decisions that prevent the construction or modification of towers or place conditions on such construction or modifications that are responsive to community residents' concerns regarding the height, visibility, or other characteristics of the towers. Over the last several years, there have been several developments related to FCC regulations and legislation that assist in expediting and streamlining the deployment of wireless networks, including establishing timeframes for reviews by local and state governments. Notwithstanding such legislative and FCC actions, decisions of local zoning authorities may also adversely affect the timing or cost of wireless infrastructure construction or modification. 

Some of our small cell related subsidiaries hold authorization to provide intrastate telecommunication services as competitive local exchange carriers ("CLEC") in numerous states and to provide domestic interstate telecommunication services as authorized by the FCC. These small cell subsidiaries are primarily regulated by state public service commissions which have jurisdiction over public rights-of-way. CLEC status, in certain cases, helps promote access to such public rights-of-way, which is beneficial to the deployment of our small cell on a timely basis. Status as a CLEC often allows us to deploy our small cell systems in locations where zoning restrictions might otherwise delay, restrict, or prevent building or expanding traditional wireless tower sites or traditional wireless rooftop sites.

Environmental. We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations protecting environmental quality, including air and water quality and wildlife protection. To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international environmental regulations or matters. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

The construction of new towers or, in some cases, the modification of existing towers in the U.S. may be subject to environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended ("NEPA"), which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of major federal actions. The FCC has promulgated regulations implementing NEPA which require applicants to investigate the potential environmental impact of the proposed tower construction. Should the proposed tower construction present a significant environmental impact, the FCC must prepare an environmental impact statement, subject to public comment. If the proposed construction or modification of a tower may have a significant impact on the environment, the FCC's approval of the construction or modification could be significantly delayed.

Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission, or remediation of, or exposure to, hazardous or non-hazardous substances, materials, or wastes. As an owner, lessee, or operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint-and-several liability for the cleanup of on-site or off-site contamination relating to existing or historical operations; or we could also be subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to such contamination. In general, our customer contracts prohibit our customers from using or storing any hazardous substances on our tower sites in violation of applicable environmental laws and require our customers to provide notice of certain environmental conditions caused by them.

As licensees and wireless infrastructure owners, we are also subject to regulations and guidelines that impose a variety of operational requirements relating to radio frequency emissions. As employers, we are subject to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (and similar occupational health and safety legislation in Australia) and similar guidelines regarding employee protection from radio frequency exposure. The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years.

We have compliance programs and monitoring projects to help assure that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on us.

Other Regulations. We hold, through certain of our subsidiaries, licenses for common carrier microwave service, which are subject to additional regulation by the FCC. Our FCC license relating to our 1670-1675 MHz U.S. nationwide spectrum license ("Spectrum") has been granted conditional renewal subject to certain construction requirements being met by October 1, 2015. We have leased the Spectrum to a third party through 2023, subject to the lessee's option to purchase the Spectrum. 

 6

Australia

Federal Regulations. Carrier licenses and nominated carrier declarations issued under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 authorize the use of network units for the supply of telecommunications services to the public. The definition of "network units" includes line links and base stations used for wireless voice services but does not include tower infrastructure. Accordingly, CCAL as a tower owner and operator does not require a carrier license under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997. Similarly, because CCAL does not own any transmitters or spectrum, it does not currently require any apparatus or spectrum licenses issued under the Australian Radiocommunications Act 1992.

Carriers have a statutory obligation to provide other carriers with access to towers, and if there is a dispute (including a pricing dispute), the matter may be referred to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission for resolution. As a non-carrier, CCAL is not subject to this requirement, and our customers negotiate site access on a commercial basis.

While the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 grants certain exemptions from planning laws for the installation of "low impact facilities," newly constructed towers are expressly excluded from the definition of "low impact facilities." Accordingly, in connection with the construction of towers, CCAL is subject to state and local planning laws that vary on a site-by-site basis, typically requiring us to obtain approval from local government agencies prior to tower construction, subject to certain exceptions. Structural enhancements may be undertaken on behalf of a carrier without state or local planning approval under the general "maintenance power" under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997, although these enhancements may be subject to state and local planning laws if CCAL is unable to obtain carrier cooperation to use such power. For a limited number of towers, CCAL is also required to install aircraft warning lighting in compliance with federal aviation regulations. In Australia, a carrier may arguably be able to utilize the "maintenance power" under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 to remain as a tenant on a tower after the expiration of a site license or sublease; however, CCAL's customer access agreements generally limit the ability of customers to do this, and, even if a carrier did utilize this power, the carrier would be required to pay for CCAL's financial loss, which would roughly equal the site rental revenues that would have otherwise been payable.

Local Regulations. In Australia there are various local, state, and territory laws and regulations which relate to, among other things, town planning and zoning restrictions, standards or approvals for the design, construction or alteration of a structure or facility, or environmental regulations. As in the U.S., these laws vary greatly, but typically require tower owners to obtain approval from governmental bodies prior to tower construction and to comply with environmental laws on an ongoing basis.

Item 1A. Risk Factors