PART I   

 ITEM 1. Business  

General  

Quanta Services, Inc. (Quanta) is a leading provider of specialty contracting services, offering infrastructure solutions primarily to the electric power, natural gas and oil pipeline and telecommunications industries in North America and in select international markets. The services we provide include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks, substation facilities, renewable energy facilities, natural gas and oil transmission and distribution systems and facilities and wireline and wireless telecommunications networks used for video, data and voice transmission. We also own fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and license the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to customers.  

We report our results under four reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services, (2) Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services, (3) Telecommunications Infrastructure Services and (4) Fiber Optic Licensing. These reportable segments are based on the types of services we provide. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 were approximately $4.62 billion, of which 66% was attributable to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, 22% to the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment, 10% to the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment and 2% to the Fiber Optic Licensing segment.  

We have established a presence throughout the United States and Canada with a workforce of over 17,500 employees, which enables us to quickly, reliably and cost-effectively serve a diversified customer base. We believe our reputation for responsiveness and performance, geographic reach, comprehensive service offering, safety leadership and financial strength have resulted in strong relationships with numerous customers, which include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. Our ability to deploy services to customers throughout North America as a result of our broad geographic presence and significant scope and scale of services is particularly important to our customers who operate networks that span multiple states or regions. We believe these same factors also position us to take advantage of potential international opportunities.  

Representative customers include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2  

Table of Contents 

We were organized as a corporation in the state of Delaware in 1997, and since that time we have grown organically and have made strategic acquisitions, expanding our geographic presence and scope of services and developing new capabilities to meet our customers’ evolving needs. In particular, in the past three years, we have completed two significant acquisitions, as well as a number of smaller acquisitions. On October 25, 2010, we acquired Valard Construction LP and certain of its affiliates (Valard), an electric power infrastructure services company based in Alberta, Canada. This acquisition allowed us to further expand our electric power infrastructure capabilities and scope of services in Canada. On October 1, 2009, we acquired Price Gregory Services, Incorporated (Price Gregory), which provides natural gas and oil transmission pipeline infrastructure services in North America, specializing in the construction of large diameter transmission pipelines. This acquisition significantly expanded our existing natural gas and pipeline operations. We continue to evaluate potential acquisitions of companies with strong management teams and good reputations to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation and grow our portfolio of services. We believe that our financial strength and experienced management team will be attractive to potential acquisition targets.  

We believe that our business strategies, along with our competitive and financial strengths, are key elements in differentiating us from our competition and position us to capitalize on future capital spending by our customers. We offer comprehensive and diverse solutions on a broad geographic scale and have a solid base of long-standing customer relationships in each of the industries we serve. We also have an experienced management team, both at the executive level and within our operating units, and various proprietary technologies that enhance our service offerings. Our strategies of expanding the portfolio of services we provide to our existing and potential customer base, increasing our geographic and technological capabilities, promoting best practices and cross-selling our services to our customers, as well as continuing to maintain our financial strength, place us in a strong position to capitalize upon opportunities and trends in the industries we serve and to expand our operations globally.  

Reportable Segments  

The following is an overview of the types of services provided by each of our reportable segments and certain of the long-term industry trends impacting each segment. With respect to industry trends, we and our customers continue to operate in a challenging business environment with stringent regulatory and environmental requirements and only gradual recovery in the economy and capital markets from recessionary levels. Regulatory and economic issues have adversely affected demand for our services and the timing of projects in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Therefore, we cannot definitively predict the timing or magnitude of the effect that industry trends may have on our business, particularly in the near-term. However, during 2011, in particular during the last six months of 2011, we experienced an increase in project awards and demand for our services, and many projects that had been negatively impacted by regulatory delays have overcome those challenges and commenced construction.  

Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment  

The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric power industry. Services performed by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission and distribution networks and substation facilities along with other engineering and technical services. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including the repair of infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, and the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our proprietary robotic arm technologies, as well as the installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric power networks. In addition, this segment designs, installs and maintains renewable energy generation facilities, in particular solar and wind, and related switchyards and transmission networks. To a lesser extent, this segment provides services such as the design, installation, maintenance and repair of commercial and industrial wiring, installation of traffic networks and the installation of cable and control systems for light rail lines.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Several industry trends provide opportunities for growth in demand for the services provided by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, including the need to improve the reliability of aging power infrastructure, the expected long-term increase in demand for electric power and the incorporation of renewable generation and other new power generation sources into the North American power grid. We believe that we are the partner of choice for our electric power and renewable energy customers in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources.  

Demand for electricity in North America is expected to grow over the long-term; however, the electric power grids were not designed or constructed to serve today’s power needs. They are aging, continue to deteriorate and lack redundancy. The increasing demand, coupled with the aging infrastructure, has affected and will continue to affect reliability, requiring utilities to upgrade and expand their existing transmission and distribution systems. Current federal legislation also requires the power industry to meet federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems. These system upgrades are resulting in increased spending and increased demand for our services in the near-term, and we expect this will continue over the long-term as well.  

As demand for power grows, the need for new power generation facilities will grow as well. The future development of new traditional power generation facilities, as well as renewable energy sources such as solar and wind, will require new or expanded transmission infrastructure to transport power to demand centers. Renewable energy in particular often requires significant transmission infrastructure due to the remote location of renewable sources of energy. As a result, we anticipate that future development of new power generation will lead to increased demand over the long-term for our electric transmission design and construction services as well as our substation engineering and installation services.  

We consider renewable energy, including solar and wind, to be an ongoing opportunity for our engineering, project management and installation services. Concerns about greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the goal of reducing reliance on power generation from fossil fuels, are creating the need for more renewable energy sources. Renewable portfolio standards (RPS), which mandate that renewable energy constitute a specified percentage of a utility’s power generation by a specified date, exist in many states. Additionally, several of the provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA) include incentives for investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency and related infrastructure. We believe that our comprehensive services, industry knowledge and experience in the design, installation and maintenance of renewable energy facilities will enable us to support our customers’ renewable energy efforts. Further, we have the financial strength to selectively provide financing solutions to customers in a modest but strategic way to help facilitate the development of renewable energy projects and also potentially create construction backlog for us.  

Certain legislative and regulatory actions may also increase demand for our electric power infrastructure services. For example, in July 2011, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued Order No. 1000, which establishes transmission planning and cost allocation requirements for public utility transmission providers that are intended to facilitate multi-state electric transmission lines. The order requires planning for transmission to occur on both a local and regional basis and to take into account transmission needs driven by public policy requirements. It also provides rules for cost allocation across areas so that transmission costs are paid for by the beneficiaries of the infrastructure to be developed. The order also removes certain right of first refusals from FERC-approved tariffs and agreements, which is intended to encourage a more competitive marketplace for transmission infrastructure development and allow development to occur more quickly. We believe that certain legislative and regulatory actions, such as FERC Order No. 1000, could have a positive impact on the development of transmission infrastructure over the medium- and long-term, and as a result, increase demand for our electric transmission services.  

Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment  

The Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers involved in the transportation of natural gas, oil and other pipeline products. Services performed by the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and  

4  

Table of Contents 

 maintenance of natural gas and oil transmission and distribution systems, compressor and pump stations and gathering systems, as well as related trenching, directional boring and automatic welding services. In addition, this segment’s services include pipeline protection, integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement and fabrication of pipeline support systems and related facilities. To a lesser extent, this segment designs, installs and maintains airport fueling systems as well as water and sewer infrastructure.  

We see potential growth opportunities over the long-term in this segment, primarily in the installation and maintenance of natural gas, natural gas byproducts and oil pipelines and related services for gathering systems and pipeline integrity. In particular, we believe the existing pipeline and gathering system infrastructure in North America is insufficient to support the increasing development of new sources of natural gas, oil and other liquids, such as the unconventional shale formations and Canadian oil sands. We anticipate it will take several years to build this infrastructure and believe this need will increase demand for our services over the long-term.  

Ongoing development of unconventional shale formations throughout North America has resulted in a significant increase in the country’s natural gas supply as compared to several years ago. We believe the abundant natural gas supply, combined with lower gas prices, will stimulate demand for increased natural gas usage in the future. As one of the cleanest-burning fossil fuels for power generation, low-cost natural gas supports the U.S. goals of energy independence from foreign energy sources and a cleaner environment. The U.S. Energy Information Administration has stated that the number of natural gas-fired power plants built will increase significantly over the next two decades. As power generation from renewable energy sources continues to increase and become a larger percentage of the overall power generation mix, we also believe natural gas will be the fuel of choice to provide backup power generation to offset renewable energy intermittency. Additionally, the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear incident in Japan in 2011 has increased the uncertainty of the future role of nuclear energy for North America and will likely result in a delay in nuclear becoming a larger portion of North American power generation. We believe these factors will result in increasing development of natural gas power generation to meet North America’s future energy needs, which will in turn result in increased demand for natural gas production and the need for additional infrastructure to connect natural gas supplies to demand centers, increasing the demand for our services.  

Additional pipeline infrastructure is also needed for the transportation of crude oil and other liquids from unconventional shale formations in the United States and Canada. Heavy crude oil from the Canadian oil sands is also being developed and requires pipelines to be built to take the product to refineries, many of which are in the coastal region along the Gulf of Mexico. Canadian oil sands and shale formations in certain parts of the U.S. and Canada contain significant reserves, and the economics of the production of these reserves depend on the price of oil. Oil prices are currently at a level that encourages the development of these oil reserves, which will require pipeline infrastructure to be built. We believe this need will increase demand for our services.  

Other infrastructure, primarily midstream gathering systems, is also needed to support the development of unconventional shale formations. To diversify our transmission pipeline service offering, we are focusing on opportunities to provide our infrastructure services for gathering systems and related facilities, particularly in the liquid-rich shale formations. We are increasing our presence in the areas of several shale formation through the establishment of local offices to better position us to pursue these opportunities.  

As a result of recent significant pipeline incidents in the United States, federal and state regulatory agencies are implementing new pipeline safety rules and increasing enforcement activities. The U.S. Department of Transportation has implemented significant regulatory legislation through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration relating to pipeline integrity requirements. Testing is expected to become more frequent, extensive and invasive, and more information will be available regarding the condition of the country’s pipeline infrastructure. As a result, we anticipate a significant increase in spending allocated to pipeline integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement services, and an increase in demand for these services we provide. We expect companies will increasingly seek out companies that can provide a turnkey management solution. We believe we are one of the few companies in North America that offers a complete solution for pipeline companies and gas utilities as they focus on testing, rehabilitating and replacing their pipeline infrastructure.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment  

The Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the wireline and wireless telecommunications industry, as well as the cable television industry. Services performed by the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of fiber optic, copper and coaxial cable networks used for video, data and voice transmission, as well as the design, installation and upgrade of wireless communications networks, including towers, switching systems and backhaul links from wireless systems to voice, data and video networks. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including the repair of telecommunications infrastructure damaged by inclement weather. To a lesser extent, services provided under this segment include cable locating, splicing and testing of fiber optic networks and residential installation of fiber optic cabling.  

We believe that certain provisions of the ARRA will continue to create additional demand for our services in this segment into 2013. Specifically, the ARRA includes federal stimulus funding for the deployment of broadband services to underserved areas that lack sufficient bandwidth to adequately support economic development. Approximately $7.2 billion in stimulus funds have been awarded for broadband deployment to municipalities, states and rural telephone companies, some of which are our long-standing customers. We also expect many customers who received stimulus funds to continue to expand their networks even though stimulus funding may no longer be available.  

The combination of a growing North American wireless subscriber base, greater use of wireless data for consumer and enterprise applications and services, and the development of innovative consumer wireless data products has led to a significant increase in the amount of wireless data traffic on wireless networks. As a result, the traditional backhaul infrastructure that has historically linked wireless cell sites to broader voice, data and video networks is reaching capacity. To handle current and future wireless data traffic demands and to improve wireless network quality and reliability, wireless carriers are implementing plans to replace their legacy backhaul networks based on T-1 lines and circuit switching applications with fiber optic networks, typically referred to as “fiber to the cell site” initiatives. We believe these initiatives will continue several more years before the backhaul system upgrade is completed, resulting in additional opportunities to assist our wireless customers in their fiber to the cell site initiatives.  

We anticipate increased long-term opportunities arising from plans by a number of wireless companies to deploy and implement 4G and LTE (Long Term Evolution) technology and networks throughout North America. These technologies are being deployed in the United States using a new spectrum, which effectively requires an entirely new network to be built. As a result, we expect significant capital expenditures will be made over a relatively long period of time as wireless carriers build out their 4G and LTE networks and then augment and optimize their networks for reliability and network quality. We believe wireless carriers are in the very early stages of their 4G and LTE network deployment plans.  

Although fiber to the premises (FTTP) and fiber to the node (FTTN) deployment has slowed significantly since 2008, we expect fiber optic network build-outs will continue over the long-term as more Americans look to next-generation networks for faster internet and more robust video services. We believe more active network investment in FTTP and FTTN initiatives are more economically driven. Therefore, we believe greater confidence in a recovering domestic economy may be required before companies resume investment in FTTP and FTTN network deployment. We believe that we are well-positioned to furnish infrastructure solutions for these initiatives throughout the United States.  

Fiber Optic Licensing Segment  

The Fiber Optic Licensing segment designs, procures, constructs, maintains and owns fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and licenses the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to our customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under these agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic network, with the network owned and maintained by us. The  

6  

Table of Contents 

 Fiber Optic Licensing segment provides services to enterprise, education, carrier, financial services and healthcare customers, as well as other entities with high bandwidth telecommunication needs. The telecommunication services provided through this segment are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and certain state public utility commissions.  

The growth opportunities in our Fiber Optic Licensing segment primarily relate to geographic expansion to serve customers who need secure high-speed networks, in particular communications carriers and educational, financial services and healthcare institutions. These growth opportunities exist in both the markets we currently serve, by expanding our existing network to add new customers, and expansion into new markets through the build-out of new networks. This expected growth will require significant capital expenditures to support our network expansion efforts.  

Financial Information about Geographic Areas  

We operate primarily in the United States; however, we derived $535.0 million, $256.1 million and $112.2 million of our revenues from foreign operations during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Of our foreign revenues, approximately 97%, 87% and 84% were earned in Canada, during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, we held property and equipment in the amount of $114.8 million and $94.0 million in foreign countries, primarily Canada, as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The increase in foreign revenues and assets is primarily due to the acquisitions of Valard, McGregor Construction 2000 Ltd. and certain of its affiliated entities (McGregor), Coe Drilling Pty. Ltd. (Coe) and Price Gregory.  

Our business, financial condition and results of operations in foreign countries may be adversely impacted by monetary and fiscal policies, currency fluctuations, regulatory requirements and other political, social and economic developments or instability. Refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for additional information.  

Customers, Strategic Alliances and Preferred Provider Relationships  

Our customers include electric power, natural gas and oil pipeline and telecommunications companies, as well as commercial, industrial and governmental entities. We have a large and diverse customer base, including many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 36% of our consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 9.2% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011.  

Although we have a centralized marketing and business development strategy, management at each of our operating units is responsible for developing and maintaining successful long-term relationships with customers. Our operating unit management teams build upon existing customer relationships to secure additional projects and increase revenue from our current customer base. Many of these customer relationships originated decades ago and are maintained through a partnering approach to account management that includes project evaluation and consulting, quality performance, performance measurement and direct customer contact. Additionally, operating unit management focuses on pursuing growth opportunities with prospective new customers. We encourage operating unit management to cross-sell services of our other operating units to their customers and to coordinate with our other operating units to pursue projects, especially those that are larger and more complicated. Our business development group supports the operating units’ activities by promoting and marketing our services for existing and prospective large national accounts, as well as projects that would require services from multiple operating units.  

We are a preferred vendor to many of our customers. As a preferred vendor, we have met minimum standards for a specific category of service, maintained a high level of performance and agreed to certain payment terms and negotiated rates. We strive to maintain preferred vendor status as we believe it provides us an advantage in the award of future work for the applicable customer.  

We believe that our strategic relationships with customers in the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries will continue to result in future opportunities. Many of these relationships take the  

7  

Table of Contents 

 form of strategic alliance or long-term maintenance agreements. Strategic alliance agreements generally state an intention to work together over a period of time and/or on specific types of projects, and many provide us with preferential bidding procedures. Strategic alliances and long-term maintenance agreements are typically agreements for an initial term of approximately two to four years that may include renewal options to extend the initial term.  

Backlog  

Backlog represents the amount of revenue that we expect to realize from work to be performed in the future on uncompleted contracts, including new contractual agreements on which work has not begun. Our backlog includes estimates of revenues to be realized under long-term maintenance contracts in addition to construction contracts. We determine the amount of backlog for work under long-term maintenance contracts, or master service agreements (MSAs), by using recurring historical trends inherent in the current MSAs, factoring in seasonal demand and projected customer needs based upon ongoing communications with the customer. The following tables present our total backlog by reportable segment as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, along with an estimate of the backlog amounts expected to be realized within 12 months of each balance sheet date (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As discussed above, our backlog includes estimates of revenues to be realized under MSAs. Generally, our customers are not contractually committed to specific volumes of services under our MSAs, and many of our contracts may be terminated with notice, typically 30 to 90 days, even if we are not in default under the contract. There can be no assurance as to our customers’ requirements or that our estimates are accurate. In addition, many of our MSAs, as well as contracts for fiber optic licensing, are subject to renewal options. For purposes of calculating backlog, we have included future renewal options only to the extent the renewals can reasonably be expected to occur. Projects included in backlog can be subject to delays as a result of commercial issues, regulatory requirements, adverse weather and other factors, which could cause revenue amounts to be realized in periods later than originally expected.  

Competition  

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete with other contractors in most of the geographic markets in which we operate, and several of our competitors are large companies that have significant financial, technical and marketing resources. In addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry into some of the industries in which we operate and, as a result, any organization that has adequate financial resources and access to technical expertise may become a competitor. A significant portion of our revenues is currently derived from unit price or fixed price agreements, and price is often an important factor in the award of such agreements. Accordingly, we could be underbid by our competitors in an effort by them to procure such business. Economic conditions have increased the impacts of competitive pricing in certain of the markets that we serve. We believe that as demand for our services increases, customers will increasingly consider other factors in choosing a service provider, including technical expertise and experience, financial and operational resources, nationwide presence, industry reputation and dependability, which we expect to benefit larger contractors such as us. In addition, competition may lessen as industry resources, such as labor supplies, approach capacity. There can be no  

8  

Table of Contents 

 assurance, however, that our competitors will not develop the expertise, experience and resources to provide services that are superior in both price and quality to our services, or that we will be able to maintain or enhance our competitive position. We also face competition from the in-house service organizations of our existing or prospective customers, including electric power, natural gas and pipeline, telecommunications and engineering companies, which employ personnel who perform some of the same types of services as those provided by us. Although a significant portion of these services is currently outsourced by many of our customers, in particular services relating to larger energy transmission infrastructure projects, there can be no assurance that our existing or prospective customers will continue to outsource services in the future.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 2,300 salaried employees, including executive officers, professional and administrative staff, project managers and engineers, job superintendents and clerical personnel, and approximately 15,200 hourly employees, the number of which fluctuates depending upon the number and size of the projects we undertake at any particular time. Approximately 48% of our hourly employees at December 31, 2011 were covered by collective bargaining agreements, primarily with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW), the Canadian Union Skilled Workers (CUSW) and the four pipeline construction trade unions administered by the Pipe Line Contractors Association (PLCA), which are the Laborers International Union of North America, International Brotherhood of Teamsters (Teamsters), United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters and the International Union of Operating Engineers. These collective bargaining agreements require the payment of specified wages to our union employees, the observance of certain workplace rules and the payment of certain amounts to multi-employer pension plans and employee benefit trusts rather than administering the funds on behalf of these employees. These collective bargaining agreements have varying terms and expiration dates. The majority of the collective bargaining agreements contain provisions that prohibit work stoppages or strikes, even during specified negotiation periods relating to agreement renewal, and provide for binding arbitration dispute resolution in the event of prolonged disagreement.  

In January 2012, a strike by the Teamsters occurred that affected one of Quanta’s operating units, as well as other PLCA members. The strike lasted ten days and arose from disputes between the PLCA and the Teamsters over pension plan obligations included in a collective bargaining agreement (to which the Quanta operating unit is a party) under negotiation at the time. Negotiations on the agreement stalled, resulting in the strike. Other unions supported the strike by the Teamsters and did not work during the strike period. The disputes have been effectively resolved and the collective bargaining agreement has been extended, but is still under negotiation. We believe that further strikes can be averted as negotiations continue.  

We provide health, welfare and benefit plans for employees who are not covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have a 401(k) plan pursuant to which eligible employees who are not provided retirement benefits through a collective bargaining agreement may make contributions through a payroll deduction. We make matching cash contributions of 100% of each employee’s contribution up to 3% of that employee’s salary and 50% of each employee’s contribution between 3% and 6% of such employee’s salary, up to the maximum amount permitted by law.  

Our industry is experiencing a shortage of journeyman linemen in certain geographic areas. In response to the shortage and to attract qualified employees, we utilize various IBEW and National Electrical Contractors Association (NECA) training programs and support the joint IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program which trains qualified electrical workers. Certain of our Canadian operations also support the CUSW’s apprenticeship programs for training construction and maintenance electricians and powerline technicians. We have also established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor for employees not subject to the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, as well as additional company-wide and project-specific employee training and educational programs.  

We believe our relationships with our employees and union representatives are good.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Materials  

Our customers typically supply most or all of the materials required for each job. However, for some of our contracts, we may procure all or part of the materials required. We purchase such materials from a variety of sources and do not anticipate experiencing any significant difficulties in procuring such materials.  

Training, Quality Assurance and Safety  

Performance of our services requires the use of equipment and exposure to conditions that can be dangerous. Although we are committed to a policy of operating safely and prudently, we have been and will continue to be subject to claims by employees, customers and third parties for property damage and personal injuries resulting from performance of our services. Our operating units have established comprehensive safety policies, procedures and regulations and require that employees complete prescribed training and service programs prior to performing more sophisticated and technical jobs, which is in addition to those programs required, if applicable, by the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, the training programs sponsored by the four trade unions administered by the PLCA, the apprenticeship training programs sponsored by the CUSW or our equivalent programs. Under the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program, all journeyman linemen are required to complete a minimum of 7,000 hours of on-the-job training, approximately 200 hours of classroom education and extensive testing and certification. Certain of our operating units have established apprenticeship training programs approved by the U.S. Department of Labor that prescribe equivalent training requirements for employees who are not otherwise subject to the requirements of the IBEW/NECA Apprenticeship Program. Similarly, the CUSW offers apprenticeship training for construction and maintenance electricians that requires five terms of 1,700 hours each, combining classroom and on-the-job training, as well as training for powerline technicians that also involves classroom and jobsite training over a four-year period. In addition, the Laborers International Union of North America, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters and the International Union of Operating Engineers have training programs specifically designed for developing and improving the skills of their members who work in the pipeline construction industry. Our operating units also benefit from sharing best practices regarding their training and educational programs and comprehensive safety policies and regulations.  

Regulation  

Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations including:  

   •    licensing, permitting and inspection requirements applicable to contractors, electricians and engineers;  

   •    regulations relating to worker safety and environmental protection;  

   •    permitting and inspection requirements applicable to construction projects;  

   •    wage and hour regulations;  

   •    regulations relating to transportation of equipment and materials, including licensing and permitting requirements;  

   •    building and electrical codes;  

   •    telecommunications regulations relating to our fiber optic licensing business; and  

   •    special bidding, procurement and other requirements on government projects.  

We believe that we have all the licenses required to conduct our operations and that we are in substantial compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in substantial fines or revocation of our operating licenses, as well as give rise to termination or cancellation rights under our contracts or disqualify us from future bidding opportunities.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Environmental Matters and Climate Change Impacts  

We are committed to the protection of the environment and train our employees to perform their duties accordingly. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations governing our operations, including the handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous substances and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of previously owned or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operations at our facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. The presence of contamination from such substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. In addition, we could be held liable for significant penalties and damages under certain environmental laws and regulations and also could be subject to a revocation of our licenses or permits, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our contracts with our customers may also impose liabilities on us regarding environmental issues that arise through the performance of our services.  

From time to time, we may incur costs and obligations for correcting environmental noncompliance matters and for remediation at or relating to certain of our properties. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with our environmental obligations to date and that any such obligations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or financial performance.  

The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain. Climate change may result in, among other things, changes in rainfall patterns, storm patterns and intensities and temperature levels. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including in Item 1A. “Risk Factors”, our operating results are significantly influenced by weather. Therefore, significant changes in historical weather patterns could significantly impact our future operating results. For example, if climate change results in drier weather and more accommodating temperatures over a greater period of time in a given period, we may be able to increase our productivity, which could have a positive impact on our revenues and gross margins. In addition, if climate change results in an increase in severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, we could experience a greater amount of higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on our gross margins. Conversely, if climate change results in a greater amount of rainfall, snow, ice or other less accommodating weather conditions in a given period, we could experience reduced productivity, which could negatively impact our revenues and gross margins.  

Risk Management and Insurance  

We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. Since August 1, 2009, all policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee healthcare benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For the policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, for the policy year ended July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles were generally lower in periods prior to August 1, 2008.  

Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the  

11  

Table of Contents 

 number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $201.2 million and $216.8 million, with $155.4 million and $164.3 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $63.1 million and $66.3 million, of which $9.8 million and $9.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $53.3 million and $56.9 million are included in other assets, net.  

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage is too high for the additional benefit obtained. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  

Seasonality and Cyclicality  

Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules, and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays in projects. Second quarter revenues are typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. Third quarter revenues are typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather sometimes can cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. Any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in a given part of the country, such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations and their effect on particular projects quarter to quarter.  

Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the United States and Canada. Project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions and interest rate fluctuations are examples of items that may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period. You should read “Outlook” and “Understanding Margins” included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Website Access and Other Information  

Our website address is www.quantaservices.com. You may obtain free electronic copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to these reports through our website under the heading “Investors & Media/SEC Filings” or through the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) at www.sec.gov. These reports are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters of each of our  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Governance and Nominating Committee are posted on our website under the heading “Investors & Media/Corporate Governance.” We intend to disclose on our website any amendments or waivers to our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that are required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5.05 of Form 8-K. You may obtain free copies of these items from our website. We will make available to any stockholder, without charge, copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed with the SEC. For copies of this or any other Quanta publication, stockholders may submit a request in writing to Quanta Services, Inc., Attn: Corporate Secretary, 2800 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 2600, Houston, TX 77056, or by phone at 713-629-7600. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and our website contain information provided by other sources that we believe are reliable. We cannot assure you that the information obtained from other sources is accurate or complete. No information on our website is incorporated by reference herein.  

 ITEM 1A. Risk Factors