ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those identified in “Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information” below and in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”   

Introduction  

We are a leading provider of specialty contracting services, offering infrastructure solutions primarily to the electric power, natural gas and oil pipeline and telecommunications industries in North America and in select international markets. The services we provide include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks, substation facilities, renewable energy facilities, natural gas and oil transmission and distribution systems and facilities, and wireline and wireless telecommunications networks used for video, data and voice transmission. We also own fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and license the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to customers.  

We report our results under four reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services, (2) Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services, (3) Telecommunications Infrastructure Services and (4) Fiber Optic Licensing. These reportable segments are based on the types of services we provide. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 were approximately $4.62 billion, of which 66% was attributable to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, 22% to the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment, 10% to the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment and 2% to the Fiber Optic Licensing segment.  

Our customers include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. We have developed strong strategic alliances with numerous customers and strive to develop and maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. We enter into various types of contracts, including competitive unit price, hourly rate, cost-plus (or time and materials basis), and fixed price (or lump sum basis), the final terms and prices of which we frequently negotiate with the customer. Although the terms of our contracts vary considerably, most are made on either a unit price or fixed price basis in which we agree to do the work for a price per unit of work performed (unit price) or for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed price). We complete a substantial majority of our fixed price projects, other than certain large transmission projects, within one year, while we frequently provide maintenance and repair work under open-ended unit price or cost-plus master service agreements that are renewable periodically.  

We recognize revenue on our unit price and cost-plus contracts as units are completed or services are performed. For our fixed price contracts, we record revenues as work on the contract progresses on a percentage-of-completion basis. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract. Fixed price contracts generally include retainage provisions under which a percentage of the contract price is withheld until the project is complete and has been accepted by our customer.  

For internal management purposes, we are organized into three internal divisions, namely, the electric power division, the natural gas and pipeline division and the telecommunications division. These internal divisions are closely aligned with the reportable segments described above based on the predominant type of work provided by the operating units within each division. The operating units providing predominantly telecommunications infrastructure services and fiber optic licensing services are managed within the same internal division.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Reportable segment information, including revenues and operating income by type of work, is gathered from each operating unit for the purpose of evaluating segment performance in support of our market strategies. These classifications of our operating unit revenues by type of work for segment reporting purposes can at times require judgment on the part of management. Our operating units may perform joint infrastructure service projects for customers in multiple industries, deliver multiple types of infrastructure services under a single customer contract or provide services across industries, for example, joint trenching projects to install distribution lines for electric power, natural gas and telecommunication customers. Our integrated operations and common administrative support at each of our operating units requires that certain allocations, including allocations of shared and indirect costs, such as facility costs, indirect operating expenses including depreciation, and general and administrative costs, are made to determine operating segment profitability. Corporate costs, such as payroll and benefits, employee travel expenses, facility costs, professional fees, acquisition costs and amortization related to certain intangible costs are not allocated.  

The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric power industry. Services performed by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission and distribution networks and substation facilities along with other engineering and technical services. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including the repair of infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our proprietary robotic arm technologies, and the installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric power networks. In addition, this segment designs, installs and maintains renewable energy generation facilities, in particular solar and wind, and related switchyards and transmission networks. To a lesser extent, this segment provides services such as the design, installation, maintenance and repair of commercial and industrial wiring, installation of traffic networks and the installation of cable and control systems for light rail lines.  

The Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers involved in the transportation of natural gas, oil and other pipeline products. Services performed by the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of natural gas and oil transmission and distribution systems, compressor and pump stations and gas gathering systems, as well as related trenching, directional boring and automatic welding services. In addition, this segment’s services include pipeline protection, integrity testing, rehabilitation and replacement and fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures and facilities. To a lesser extent, this segment designs, installs and maintains airport fueling systems as well as water and sewer infrastructure.  

The Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the wireline and wireless telecommunications industry, as well as the cable television industry. Services performed by the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of fiber optic, copper and coaxial cable networks used for video, data and voice transmission, as well as the design, installation and upgrade of wireless communications networks, including towers, switching systems and “backhaul” links from wireless systems to voice, data and video networks. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including the repair of telecommunications infrastructure damaged by inclement weather. To a lesser extent, services provided under this segment include cable locating, splicing and testing of fiber optic networks and residential installation of fiber optic cabling.  

The Fiber Optic Licensing segment designs, procures, constructs, maintains and owns fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and licenses the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to our customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic network, with the network owned and maintained by us. The Fiber Optic Licensing segment provides services to enterprise, education, carrier, financial services and  

37  

Table of Contents 

 healthcare customers, as well as other entities with high bandwidth telecommunication needs. The telecommunication services provided through this segment are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and certain state public utility commissions.  

Recent Investments and Acquisitions  

On October 5, 2011, we acquired Utilimap Corporation (Utilimap), which provides geographic information system (GIS) utility asset management and engineering services to the electric utility industry. The aggregate consideration paid for Utilimap consisted of approximately $24.5 million in cash, 553,526 shares of our common stock valued at approximately $9.7 million and the repayment of $0.8 million in debt. As this transaction was effective October 5, 2011, the results of Utilimap have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on such date. This acquisition enables us to further enhance our electric power infrastructure service offerings. Utilimap’s financial results will generally be included in our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment.  

On August 11, 2011, we acquired Coe Drilling Pty. Ltd. (Coe), a horizontal directional drilling company based in Brisbane, Australia. The aggregate consideration paid for Coe consisted of approximately $10.5 million in cash, 396,643 shares of our common stock valued at approximately $6.3 million and the repayment of $1.8 million in debt. As this transaction was effective August 11, 2011, the results of Coe have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on such date. This acquisition allows us to further expand our capabilities and scope of services internationally. Coe’s financial results will generally be included in our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment.  

On August 5, 2011, we acquired McGregor Construction 2000 Ltd. and certain of its affiliated entities (McGregor), an electric power infrastructure services company based in Alberta, Canada. The aggregate consideration paid for McGregor consisted of approximately $38.6 million in cash, 898,440 shares of our common stock valued at approximately $14.6 million and the repayment of $0.8 million in debt. As this transaction was effective August 5, 2011, the results of McGregor have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on such date. This acquisition allows us to further expand our capabilities and scope of services in Canada. McGregor’s financial results will generally be included in our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment.  

Also in 2011, we acquired two other businesses based in British Columbia, Canada that predominantly provide electric power infrastructure services, which have been reflected in our consolidated financial statements as of their respective acquisition dates. In connection with these acquisitions, we paid the former owners of the businesses an aggregate of approximately $7.3 million in cash and issued an aggregate of 91,204 shares of our common stock valued at approximately $1.7 million. The results of these businesses are included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on their respective acquisition dates. These acquisitions allow us to further expand our capabilities and scope of services in Canada. The financial results for these two businesses will generally be included in our Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment.  

On June 22, 2011, we acquired an equity ownership interest of approximately 39% in Howard Midstream Energy Partners, LLC (HEP) for an initial capital contribution of $35.0 million. HEP is engaged in the business of owning, operating and constructing midstream plant and pipeline assets in the natural gas and oil industry. HEP commenced operations in June 2011 with the acquisitions of Texas Pipeline LLC, a pipeline operator in the Eagle Ford shale region of South Texas, and Bottom Line Services, LLC, a construction services company. Our investment in HEP is expected to provide strategic growth opportunities in the ongoing development of the Texas Eagle Ford shale region. We account for this investment using the equity method of accounting.  

During the third quarter of 2011, we loaned $4.0 million to the indirect parent of NJ Oak Solar, LLC (NJ Oak Solar). The loan proceeds, together with NJ Oak Solar’s other financing and equity funds, were used for their construction of a 10 MW solar power generation facility in New Jersey. The construction of the facility, which began in the second quarter of 2011, is being performed by us and was substantially complete at the end of 2011.  

38  

Table of Contents 

On October 25, 2010, we acquired Valard Construction LP and certain of its affiliated entities (Valard), an electric power infrastructure services company based in Alberta, Canada. This acquisition allowed us to further expand our electric power infrastructure capabilities and scope of services in Canada. Because of the type of work performed by Valard, its financial results are generally included in the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment. The results of Valard have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on October 25, 2010.  

Seasonality; Fluctuations of Results; Economic Conditions  

Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project timing and schedules, and holidays. Typically, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions can cause delays on projects. Second quarter revenues are typically higher than those in the first quarter, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. Third quarter revenues are typically the highest of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budgets before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather can sometimes cause delays, reducing revenues and increasing costs. Any quarter may be positively or negatively affected by atypical weather patterns in a given part of the country, such as severe weather, excessive rainfall or warmer winter weather, making it difficult to predict these variations and their effect on particular projects quarter to quarter.  

Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the United States and Canada. Project schedules, particularly in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions and interest rate fluctuations are examples of items that may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any other period.  

We and our customers continue to operate in a challenging business environment, with increasing regulatory and environmental requirements, stringent permitting processes and only gradual recovery in the economy and capital markets from recessionary levels. We are closely monitoring our customers and the effect that changes in economic and market conditions have had or may have on them. Certain of our customers have reduced or delayed spending over the past two years, which we attribute primarily to regulatory and permitting hurdles and negative economic and market conditions, and we anticipate that these issues may continue to affect demand for some of our services in the near-term. However, we believe that most of our customers, many of whom are regulated utilities, remain financially stable in general and will be able to continue with their business plans in the long-term. You should read “Outlook” and “Understanding Margins” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Understanding Margins  

Our gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenues, and our operating margin is operating income expressed as a percentage of revenues. Cost of services, which is subtracted from revenues to obtain gross profit, consists primarily of salaries, wages and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other equipment expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services, insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and supplies. Selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets are then subtracted from gross profit to obtain operating income. Various factors — some controllable, some not — impact our margins on a quarterly or annual basis.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Seasonal and Geographical. As discussed above, seasonal patterns can have a significant impact on margins. Generally, business is slower in the winter months versus the warmer months of the year, resulting in lower productivity and consequently reducing our ability to cover fixed costs. This can be offset somewhat by increased demand for electrical service and repair work resulting from severe weather. Additionally, project schedules, including when projects begin and when they are completed, may impact margins. The mix of business conducted in different parts of the country will also affect margins, as some parts of the country offer the opportunity for higher margins than others due to the geographic characteristics associated with the physical location where the work is being performed. Such characteristics include whether the project is performed in an urban versus a rural setting or in a mountainous area or in open terrain. Site conditions, including unforeseen underground conditions, can also impact margins.  

Weather. Adverse or favorable weather conditions can impact gross margins in a given period. For example, snow or rainfall in the areas in which we operate may negatively impact our revenues and margins due to reduced productivity, as projects may be delayed or temporarily placed on hold until weather conditions improve. Conversely, in periods when weather remains dry and temperatures are accommodating, more work can be done, sometimes with less cost, which would have a favorable impact on margins. In some cases, severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, can provide us with higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on margins.  

Revenue mix. The mix of revenues derived from the industries we serve will impact margins, as certain industries provide higher margin opportunities. Additionally, changes in our customers’ spending patterns in each of the industries we serve can cause an imbalance in supply and demand and, therefore, affect margins and mix of revenues by industry served.  

Service and maintenance versus installation. Installation work is often obtained on a fixed price basis, while maintenance work is often performed under pre-established or negotiated prices or cost-plus pricing arrangements. Margins for installation work may vary from project to project, and may be higher than maintenance work, as work obtained on a fixed price basis has higher risk than other types of pricing arrangements. We typically derive approximately 30% of our annual revenues from maintenance work, but a higher portion of installation work in any given period may affect our gross margins for that period.  

Subcontract work. Work that is subcontracted to other service providers generally yields lower margins. An increase in subcontract work in a given period may contribute to a decrease in margins. We typically subcontract approximately 15% to 20% of our work to other service providers.  

Materials versus labor. Typically, our customers are responsible for supplying their own materials on projects; however, for some of our contracts, we may agree to procure all or part of the required materials. Margins may be lower on projects where we furnish a significant amount of materials, as our mark-up on materials is generally lower than on our labor costs. In a given period, an increase in the percentage of work with higher materials procurement requirements may decrease our overall margins.  

Depreciation. We include depreciation in cost of services. This is common practice in our industry, but it can make comparability of our margins to those of other companies difficult. This must be taken into consideration when comparing us to other companies.  

Insurance. Margins could be impacted by fluctuations in insurance accruals as additional claims arise and as circumstances and conditions of existing claims change. We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. Since August 1, 2009, all policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For the policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general  

40  

Table of Contents 

 liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, for the policy year ended July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles were generally lower in periods prior to August 1, 2008.  

Performance risk. Margins may fluctuate because of the volume of work and the impacts of pricing and job productivity, which can be impacted both favorably and negatively by weather, geography, customer decisions and crew productivity. For example, when comparing a service contract between a current quarter and the comparable prior year’s quarter, factors affecting the gross margins associated with the revenues generated by the contract may include pricing under the contract, the volume of work performed under the contract, the mix of the type of work specifically being performed and the productivity of the crews performing the work. Productivity can be influenced by many factors, including where the work is performed (e.g., rural versus urban area or mountainous or rocky area versus open terrain), whether the work is on an open or encumbered right of way, the impacts of inclement weather or the effects of environmental restrictions or regulatory delays. These types of factors are not practicable to quantify through accounting data, but each of these items may individually or in the aggregate have a direct impact on the gross margin of a specific project.  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related benefits to management, administrative salaries and benefits, marketing, office rent and utilities, communications, professional fees, bad debt expense, acquisition costs, gains and losses on the sale of property and equipment, letter of credit fees and maintenance, training and conversion costs related to the implementation of an information technology solution.  

Results of Operations   

As previously discussed, we completed the acquisition of five businesses during 2011, which included three electric power infrastructure services companies based in Canada, one electric power infrastructure services company based in the United States and one natural gas and pipeline infrastructure service contractor based in Australia. During 2010, we acquired one electric power infrastructure services company based in Canada. During 2009, we acquired one natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services company that provides services in North America as well as three other businesses providing infrastructure services in the electric power, natural gas and pipeline and telecommunications industries. The results of these acquisitions have been included in the following results of operations beginning on their respective acquisition dates. The following table sets forth selected statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenues for the years indicated (dollars in thousands).  

41  

Table of Contents 

Consolidated Results   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 compared to 2010  

Revenues. Revenues increased $692.6 million, or 17.6%, to $4.62 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011. Electric power infrastructure service revenues increased $981.4 million, or 47.9%, to $3.03 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily due to an increase in the number and size of projects as a result of increased capital spending by our customers, the contribution of $242.2 million in revenues from acquired businesses and an increase of $76.7 million in revenues from emergency restoration services during 2011 as compared to 2010. Also contributing to the overall revenue increase were higher revenues from telecommunications infrastructure services, which increased $84.3 million, or 22.6%, to $457.3 million, primarily as a result of increased capital spending by our customers. Partially offsetting these increases were lower revenues from natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services, which decreased $378.4 million, or 27.0%, to $1.02 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to a decrease in the number and size of natural gas transmission projects that were ongoing during 2011 as compared to 2010.  

Gross profit. Gross profit decreased $13.8 million, or 2.2%, to $620.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin decreased to 13.4% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 16.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010. These decreases were primarily due to the impact of lower overall revenues from natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services, which resulted in a lower ability to cover operating overhead costs, as well as the impact of project losses incurred by this segment during 2011 that primarily resulted from increased project costs related to productivity issues caused by adverse weather conditions and more stringent application of regulations. Also contributing to these decreases was the impact of a $32.6 million charge to the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment’s cost of services in the fourth quarter of 2011 associated with the withdrawal of certain of our subsidiaries from an underfunded multi-employer pension plan. Gross margins were also negatively impacted in 2011 as a result of a decrease in margins earned by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment primarily due to the completion of certain higher margin electric transmission projects during the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to electric transmission projects that were at earlier stages of completion during the year ended December 31, 2011. The decrease in gross profit was partially offset by the impact of higher overall revenues from the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment and the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment as described above.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $33.3 million, or 9.8%, to $373.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase was primarily attributable to $23.7 million in higher salary and benefits costs from increased personnel and incentive compensation expenses associated with increased levels of operating activity, as well as approximately $14.0 million in additional administrative expenses associated with businesses acquired since January 1, 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased from 8.6% for the year ended December 31, 2010 to 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to the impact of higher overall revenues described above.  

Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets decreased $8.6 million to $30.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This decrease was primarily due to reduced amortization expense from previously acquired intangible assets as certain of these assets became fully amortized, partially offset by increased amortization of intangibles associated with businesses acquired during 2010 and 2011.  

Interest expense. Interest expense decreased $3.1 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to the redemption of all of our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) on May 14, 2010.  

Interest income. Interest income decreased $0.4 million to $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, primarily as a result of lower average cash balances during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010.  

Loss on early extinguishment of debt. Loss on early extinguishment of debt was $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss on early extinguishment of debt was a result of the redemption of all of the outstanding 3.75% Notes on May 14, 2010. This loss includes a non-cash loss of $3.5 million related to the difference between the net carrying value and the estimated fair value of the 3.75% Notes calculated as of the date of redemption, the payment of $2.3 million for the 1.607% redemption premium above par value and a non-cash loss of $1.3 million from the write-off of the remaining unamortized deferred financing costs related to the 3.75% Notes.  

Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $72.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, with an effective tax rate of 33.3%. The provision for income taxes was $90.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, with an effective tax rate of 36.8%. The effective tax rates for 2011 and 2010 were impacted by the recording of tax benefits in the amount of $10.7 million in 2011 and $10.5 million in 2010 associated with decreases in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the expiration of various federal and state statutes of limitations and settlement of certain tax audits. The lower tax rate in 2011 relates to a decrease in valuation allowance on foreign tax credits, favorable tax rate differentials on foreign earnings and lower tax expenses on income from incorporated joint ventures.  

2010 compared to 2009  

Revenues. Revenues increased $613.1 million, or 18.5%, to $3.93 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenues from natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services increased $618.6 million, or 78.8%, to $1.40 billion and fiber optic licensing revenues increased $19.5 million, or 22.4%, to $106.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenues from natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services increased primarily as a result of revenue contributions from Price Gregory, which was acquired on October 1, 2009. Revenues from fiber optic licensing increased primarily as a result of continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point to point fiber optic telecommunications facilities. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues from electric power infrastructure services, which decreased $19.6 million, or 0.9%, to $2.05 billion, primarily due to the timing of major transmission projects and decreases in spending by our customers.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Gross profit. Gross profit increased $40.9 million, or 6.9%, to $634.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in gross profit was predominantly due to the contribution of gas transmission service revenues during 2010, primarily as the result of the acquisition of Price Gregory. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin decreased to 16.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 17.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily as a result of decreases in gross margins in electric power, natural gas and pipeline and telecommunications infrastructure services. The decrease in electric power margins was primarily the result of lower overall levels of profit being contributed from higher margin electric transmission services as a result of the timing of major projects discussed above. Although overall levels of gas transmission service revenues and gross profit increased in 2010 as compared to 2009, gross margins earned for 2010 were negatively impacted by unanticipated delays and difficult weather conditions, which led to higher costs on certain large gas transmission jobs. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in gross margin in fiber optic licensing services.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $27.3 million, or 8.7%, to $339.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased approximately $20.3 million as a result of the addition of administrative expenses associated with the Price Gregory acquisition and, to a lesser extent, the Valard acquisition. In addition, acquisition and integration costs of $10.6 million were incurred in 2010 compared to $2.8 million in 2009. The costs for the ongoing implementation of technology solutions also increased $1.5 million in 2010 as compared to 2009. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in net losses on sales of equipment, which were $4.7 million during 2010, as compared to $8.0 million in 2009. Included in the $8.0 million in net losses in 2009 was an impairment charge of $4.5 million for assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 related to natural gas segment equipment that was deemed to be duplicative as a result of the Price Gregory acquisition. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 8.6% from 9.4% primarily due to a better ability to cover fixed costs as a result of higher revenues earned in 2010.  

Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets decreased $0.4 million to $38.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This decrease was primarily due to reduced amortization expense from previously acquired intangible assets as balances became fully amortized, offset by increased amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisitions of Valard on October 25, 2010 and Price Gregory on October 1, 2009.  

Interest expense. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 decreased $6.4 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the redemption of all of our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) on May 14, 2010.  

Interest income. Interest income was $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease resulted primarily from substantially lower interest rates earned for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009.  

Loss on early extinguishment of debt. Loss on early extinguishment of debt was $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The loss on early extinguishment of debt was a result of the redemption of all of the outstanding 3.75% Notes on May 14, 2010. This loss included a non-cash loss of $3.5 million related to the difference between the net carrying value and the estimated fair value on the 3.75% Notes calculated as of the date of redemption, the payment of $2.3 million for the 1.607% redemption premium above par value and a non-cash loss of $1.3 million from the write-off of the remaining unamortized deferred financing costs related to the 3.75% Notes.  

Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $90.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, with an effective tax rate of 36.8%. The provision for income taxes was $70.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, with an effective tax rate of 30.0%. The effective tax rates for 2010 and 2009 were impacted by the recording of tax benefits in the amount of $10.5 million in 2010 and $23.7 million in 2009 associated with decreases in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the expiration of various federal and state statutes of limitations.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Segment Results  

The following table sets forth revenues and operating income (loss) by segment for the years indicated. Certain reclassifications have been made to the 2010 and 2009 operating income (loss) to conform with the 2011 presentation (dollars in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 compared to 2010  

Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

Revenues for this segment increased $981.4 million, or 47.9%, to $3.03 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011. Revenues were primarily impacted by increased capital spending by our customers primarily associated with electric power transmission projects. Revenues in 2011 were also favorably impacted by the contribution of $235.4 million in revenues from acquired businesses. Also contributing to the increase was an increase of $76.7 million in emergency restoration services primarily resulting from Hurricane Irene, which impacted the east coast region of the United States.  

Operating income increased $123.5 million, or 60.0%, to $329.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, while operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 10.9% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 10.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The increases were primarily due to the overall increase in the volume of segment revenues described above, which improved this segment’s ability to cover fixed and overhead costs, as well as higher margins earned on certain solar power generation projects and from emergency restoration services performed in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase in operating margins was partially offset by the completion of certain higher margin electric transmission projects during 2010 as compared to electric transmission projects that were in earlier stages of completion during 2011.  

Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

Revenues for this segment decreased $378.4 million, or 27.0%, to $1.02 billion for the year ended December 31, 2011. Revenues were negatively impacted by a decrease in the number and size of projects as a result of delays in spending by our customers, specifically in connection with natural gas transmission projects. These decreases were partially offset by increases in revenues from distribution services as a result of the incremental contribution of certain new master service agreements for natural gas distribution services as well as increased spending by our customers in certain areas of the United States.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Operating income decreased $197.7 million, or 165.9%, to a loss of $78.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to a negative 7.7% for the year ended December 31, 2011 from 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010. These decreases were primarily due to the impact of increased project costs related to performance issues caused by adverse weather conditions and regulatory restrictions on certain gas transmission projects completed during 2011. Also contributing to these decreases was a $32.6 million charge to this segment’s operating results in 2011 associated with the withdrawal of certain of our subsidiaries from an underfunded multi-employer pension plan, as well as the negative impact of the lower overall revenues described above, which negatively impacted this segment’s ability to cover fixed and overhead costs.  

Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

Revenues for this segment increased $84.3 million, or 22.6%, to $457.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in the volume of work associated with stimulus-funded fiber optic network projects during the second half of 2011 as well as higher revenues from fiber to the cell site initiatives resulting from higher capital spending by our customers. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the volume of work associated with a long-haul fiber installation performed during 2010 that was not replaced during 2011.  

Operating income increased $21.9 million, or 147.4%, to $36.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased from 4.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010 to 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2011. These increases were primarily due to an increase in the demand for our services allowing for margin expansion during the second half of 2011, as well as lower selling, general and administrative expenses that resulted from the restructuring of certain operating units, which reduced the overall amount of fixed costs associated with the segment.  

Fiber Optic Licensing Segment Results  

Revenues for this segment increased $5.3 million, or 4.9%, to $112.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This increase in revenues was primarily a result of our continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.  

Operating income increased nominally to $54.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Operating income as a percentage of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased to 48.4% from 49.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to higher network maintenance costs incurred during 2011, as well as higher construction revenues earned during 2011, which bear lower margins than the fiber optic licensing revenues generated by this segment.  

Corporate and Non-allocated Costs  

Certain selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets are not allocated to segments. Corporate and non-allocated costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 decreased $12.3 million to $124.3 million. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $8.6 million in amortization expense as previously acquired intangible assets have become fully amortized and a decrease of $7.9 million in acquisition and integration costs. Partially offsetting these decreases was a $3.0 million increase in costs associated with various business development initiatives.  

46  

Table of Contents 

2010 compared to 2009  

Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

Revenues for this segment decreased $19.6 million, or 0.9%, to $2.05 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Revenues were negatively impacted primarily by a reduction in electric power transmission services related to the timing of major transmission projects. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in revenues from other electric power infrastructure services, as well as approximately $25.7 million in revenues contributed from Valard, which was acquired on October 25, 2010. Additionally, revenues were positively impacted by an increase of approximately $16.7 million in revenues from emergency restoration services, to approximately $96.5 million in 2010 from approximately $79.8 million in 2009. This increase was primarily due to the increased work associated with ice storms in the United States during the first quarter of 2010.  

Operating income decreased $20.1 million, or 8.9%, to $206.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, while operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased to 10.1% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 10.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009. These decreases were primarily the result of lower levels of profit being contributed from higher margin electric transmission services due to the timing of major transmission projects discussed above, coupled with a more competitive pricing environment for smaller scale transmission projects and distribution services. In addition, margins were lower on emergency restoration services performed in 2010 as compared to 2009.  

Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

Revenues for this segment increased $618.6 million, or 78.8%, to $1.40 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase was due to the incremental contribution of natural gas transmission service revenues primarily from the operations of Price Gregory, which was acquired on October 1, 2009.  

Operating income increased $56.5 million, or 90.2%, to $119.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased to 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2010 from 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The increases in operating income and operating margin were primarily due to the increased revenue contributions resulting from the acquisition of Price Gregory, which led to a change in the mix of services to a greater volume of higher margin gas transmission services in 2010 as compared to 2009, as well as the impact of higher overall revenues on this segment’s ability to cover fixed costs.  

Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

Revenues for this segment decreased $5.4 million, or 1.4%, to $372.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to lower revenues from fiber build-out initiatives as a result of continued reduced capital spending by our customers during 2010 as compared to 2009. This decrease in revenues was partially offset by an increase in the volume of work associated with long-haul fiber installation during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009.  

Operating income decreased $10.5 million, or 41.4%, to $14.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to operating income of $25.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased from 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009 to 4.0% for the year ended December 31, 2010. These decreases were primarily due to the impact of losses incurred during the first quarter of 2010 as a result of weather related slowdowns impacting this segment’s productivity, coupled with lower overall margins on work performed in 2010 as compared to 2009 due to a change in the mix of the types of services performed during 2010 as a result of continued reduced capital spending by our customers.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Fiber Optic Licensing Segment Results  

Revenues for this segment increased $19.5 million, or 22.4%, to $106.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase in revenues was primarily a result of our continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.  

Operating income increased $8.6 million, or 19.4%, to $52.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily as a result of the increased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 remained relatively constant.  

Corporate and Non-allocated Costs  

Certain selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets are not allocated to segments. Corporate and non-allocated costs for the year ended December 31, 2010 increased $20.5 million to $136.6 million. The increase was primarily due to an increase in salaries and benefits costs of approximately $11.1 million from increased non-cash stock compensation as well as higher personnel and incentive compensation expenses associated with current levels of operating activity. In addition, acquisition and ongoing integration costs of $10.6 million were incurred in 2010 compared to $2.8 million in 2009. Also, the costs for the ongoing implementation of technology solutions increased $1.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Cash Requirements  

We anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, which totaled $315.3 million as of December 31, 2011, existing borrowing capacity under our credit facility, and our future cash flows from operations will provide sufficient funds to enable us to meet our future operating needs and our planned capital expenditures, as well as facilitate our ability to grow in the foreseeable future.  

Capital expenditures are expected to total $190 million to $225 million for 2012. Approximately $40 million to $50 million of the expected 2012 capital expenditures are targeted for the expansion of our fiber optic networks.  

We also evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions from time to time that may require cash, as well as other opportunities to make investments in customer-sponsored projects where we anticipate performing services such as project management, engineering, procurement or construction services. These investment opportunities exist in the markets and industries we serve and may take the form of debt or equity investments, which may require cash.  

Management continues to monitor the financial markets and general national and global economic conditions. We consider our cash investment policies to be conservative in that we maintain a diverse portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality cash investments with short-term maturities. We were in compliance with our covenants under our credit facility at December 31, 2011. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that any weakness in the capital markets will have a material impact on the principal amounts of our cash investments or our ability to rely upon our existing credit facility for funds. To date, we have experienced no loss of or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents or funds available under our credit facility; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash and cash equivalents or availability under our credit facility will not be impacted in the future by adverse conditions in the financial markets.  

48  

Table of Contents 

Sources and Uses of Cash  

As of December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of $315.3 million and working capital of $984.1 million. We also had $191.4 million of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility and $508.6 million available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit under our credit facility.  

Operating Activities  

Cash flow from operations is primarily influenced by demand for our services, operating margins and the type of services we provide, but can also be influenced by working capital needs, in particular on larger projects, due to the timing of collection of receivables and the settlement of payables and other obligations. Working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased demand for our services when favorable weather conditions exist in many of the regions in which we operate. Conversely, working capital assets are typically converted to cash during the winter months.  

Operating activities provided net cash to us of $218.0 million during 2011 as compared to $240.3 million during 2010 and $376.9 million during 2009. The decrease in operating cash flows for 2011 as compared to 2010 was primarily due to increased working capital requirements in the fourth quarter of 2011 as a result of an increase in activities on certain major electric transmission projects. Operating cash flows in 2010 were also negatively impacted, as compared to 2009, as a result of an increase in working capital levels at December 31, 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily due to the timing of production and billing milestones on certain large natural gas transmission projects. Additionally, operating cash flows in 2009 were higher than in 2011 and 2010 primarily due to the collection of large accounts receivable and retainage balances in 2009 that were outstanding at the end of 2008.  

Investing Activities  

During 2011, we used net cash in investing activities of $281.2 million as compared to $254.3 million and $119.7 million used in investing activities in 2010 and 2009. Investing activities in 2011 included $172.0 million used for capital expenditures, partially offset by $9.9 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. Also included in investing activities in 2011 were the $35.0 million capital contribution to acquire an equity interest in HEP and investments made for acquisitions in the third and fourth quarters of 2011, which used cash in the aggregate amount of $79.7 million. Investing activities in 2010 included $130.3 million of net cash used in connection with our acquisition of Valard and $149.7 million used for capital expenditures, partially offset by $25.7 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. Investing activities in 2009 included $36.2 million of net cash acquired primarily as a result of our acquisition of Price Gregory. During 2009, we also used $165.0 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by $9.1 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. Our industry is capital intensive, and we expect the need for substantial capital expenditures to continue into the foreseeable future to meet the anticipated demand for our services. In addition, we expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, although we cannot predict the timing or magnitude of the potential cash outlays for these initiatives.  

Financing Activities  

In 2011, we used net cash in financing activities of $158.7 million as compared to $145.7 million used by financing activities in 2010 and $1.5 million provided by financing activities in 2009. Financing activities in 2011 primarily related to $149.5 million in common stock repurchases under our stock repurchase program as well as the loan costs related to the amendment and restatement of our credit facility on August 2, 2011. Financing activities in 2010 included $143.8 million in payments for the redemption of the aggregate principal amount of our 3.75% Notes, described below in “Debt Instruments”, as well as $2.3 million in net repayments of other borrowings during the year ended December 31, 2010. Additionally, we made a $2.4 million cash payment to a noncontrolling interest as a distribution of profits. These outflows were partially offset by $2.2 million in tax impacts from stock-based equity awards and $0.5 million received from the exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2009 resulted primarily from $2.0 million in net proceeds from borrowings, coupled with cash inflows of $1.0 million from the exercise of stock options. These inflows were partially offset by a $1.5 million tax impact from the vesting of stock-based equity awards.  

49  

Table of Contents 

Debt Instruments  

Credit Facility  

We have a credit agreement that provides for a $700.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility maturing on August 2, 2016. The entire amount of the facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit, and up to $25.0 million of the facility is available for swing line loans. Up to $100.0 million of the facility is available for revolving loans and letters of credit in certain alternative currencies in addition to the U.S. dollar. Borrowings under the credit agreement are to be used to refinance existing indebtedness and for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. We entered into the credit agreement on August 2, 2011, which amended and restated our prior credit agreement.  

As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $191.4 million of letters of credit issued under the credit facility and no outstanding revolving loans. The remaining $508.6 million was available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit. Amounts borrowed under the credit agreement in U.S. dollars bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either (a) the Eurocurrency Rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus 1.25% to 2.50%, as determined based on our Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as described below), plus, if applicable, any Mandatory Cost (as defined in the credit agreement) required to compensate lenders for the cost of compliance with certain European regulatory requirements, or (b) the Base Rate (as described below) plus 0.25% to 1.50%, as determined based on our Consolidated Leverage Ratio. Amounts borrowed under the credit agreement in any currency other than U.S. dollars bear interest at a rate equal to the Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.25% to 2.50%, as determined based on our Consolidated Leverage Ratio, plus, if applicable, any Mandatory Cost. Standby letters of credit issued under the credit agreement are subject to a letter of credit fee of 1.25% to 2.50%, based on our Consolidated Leverage Ratio, and Performance Letters of Credit (as defined in the credit agreement) issued under the credit agreement in support of certain contractual obligations are subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.75% to 1.50%, based on our Consolidated Leverage Ratio. We are also subject to a commitment fee of 0.20% to 0.45%, based on our Consolidated Leverage Ratio, on any unused availability under the credit agreement. The Consolidated Leverage Ratio is the ratio of our total funded debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement). For purposes of calculating both the Consolidated Leverage Ratio and the maximum senior debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio discussed below, total funded debt and total senior debt are reduced by all cash and Cash Equivalents (as defined in the credit agreement) held by us in excess of $25.0 million. The Base Rate equals the highest of (i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the credit agreement) plus 1/2 of 1%, (ii) Bank of America’s prime rate and (iii) the Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.00%.  

Subject to certain exceptions, the credit agreement is secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of our wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries, and by a pledge of all of the capital stock of our wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries and 65% of the capital stock of our direct foreign subsidiaries and the direct foreign subsidiaries of our wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries. Our wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries also guarantee the repayment of all amounts due under the credit agreement. Subject to certain conditions, at any time we maintain a corporate credit rating that is BBB- (stable) or higher by Standard & Poor’s Rating Services and a corporate family rating that is Baa3 (stable) or higher by Moody’s Investors Services, all collateral will be automatically released from these liens.  

The credit agreement contains certain covenants, including a maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio, in each case as specified in the credit agreement. The credit agreement also contains a maximum senior debt to Consolidated EBITDA ratio, as specified in the credit agreement, that will be in effect at any time that the collateral securing the credit agreement has been and remains released. The credit agreement limits certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, indebtedness, capital expenditures, asset sales and prepayments of indebtedness and, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits liens on assets. The credit agreement also includes limits on the payment of dividends and stock repurchase programs in any fiscal year except those payments or other distributions payable solely in capital stock. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all of the covenants in the credit agreement.  

50  

Table of Contents 

The credit agreement provides for customary events of default and includes cross-default provisions with our underwriting, continuing indemnity and security agreement with our sureties and all of our other debt instruments exceeding $30.0 million in borrowings or availability. If an event of default (as defined in the credit agreement) occurs and is continuing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the credit agreement, amounts outstanding under the credit agreement may be accelerated and may become or be declared immediately due and payable.  

Prior to August 2, 2011,we had a credit agreement that provided for a $475.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility maturing September 19, 2012. Subject to the conditions specified in the prior credit agreement, borrowings under the prior credit facility were to be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The entire unused portion of the prior credit facility was available for the issuance of letters of credit.  

Amounts borrowed under the prior credit facility bore interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either (a) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the prior credit agreement) plus 0.875% to 1.75%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the prior credit agreement), or (b) the base rate (as described below) plus 0.00% to 0.75%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to Consolidated EBITDA. Letters of credit issued under the prior credit facility were subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.875% to 1.75%, based on the ratio of our total funded debt to Consolidated EBITDA. We were also subject to a commitment fee of 0.15% to 0.35%, based on the ratio of our total funded debt to Consolidated EBITDA, on any unused availability under the prior credit facility. The base rate equaled the higher of (i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the prior credit agreement) plus 1/2 of 1% or (ii) the bank’s prime rate.  

3.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

As of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, none of our 3.75% Notes were outstanding. The 3.75% Notes were originally issued in April 2006 for an aggregate principal amount of $143.8 million and required semi-annual interest payments on April 30 and October 30 until maturity. On May 14, 2010, we redeemed all of the $143.8 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of the 3.75% Notes at a redemption price of 101.607% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the date of redemption. The redemption resulted in the payment of the aggregate redemption price of $146.1 million and the recognition of a loss on extinguishment of debt of approximately $7.1 million. Included in the loss on early extinguishment of debt was a non-cash loss of $3.5 million related to the difference between the net carrying value and the estimated fair value of the 3.75% Notes calculated as of the date of redemption, the payment of $2.3 million representing the 1.607% redemption premium above par value and a non-cash loss of $1.3 million from the write-off of the remaining unamortized deferred financing costs related to the 3.75% Notes.  

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions  

As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business that result in risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions include liabilities associated with non-cancelable operating leases, letter of credit obligations, commitments to expand our fiber optic networks, surety guarantees, multi-employer pension plan liabilities and obligations relating to our joint venture arrangements. Certain joint venture structures involve risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. For certain joint ventures, we have guaranteed all of the obligations of the joint venture under a contract with the customer. Additionally, other joint venture arrangements qualify as a general partnership, for which we are jointly and severally liable for all of the obligations of the joint venture. In our joint venture arrangements, each joint venturer indemnifies the other party for any liabilities incurred in excess of the liabilities such other party is obligated to bear under the respective joint venture agreement. Other than as previously discussed, we have not engaged in any material off-balance sheet financing arrangements through special purpose entities, and we have no material guarantees of the work or obligations of third parties.  

51  

Table of Contents 

Leases  

We enter into non-cancelable operating leases for many of our facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases allow us to conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee for use of facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than purchasing them. We may decide to cancel or terminate a lease before the end of its term, in which case we are typically liable to the lessor for the remaining lease payments under the term of the lease.  

We have guaranteed the residual value of the underlying assets under certain of our equipment operating leases at the date of termination of such leases. We have agreed to pay any difference between this residual value and the fair market value of each underlying asset as of the lease termination date. As of December 31, 2011, the maximum guaranteed residual value was approximately $126.0 million. We believe that no significant payments will be made as a result of the difference between the fair market value of the leased equipment and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can be no assurance that future significant payments will not be required.  

Letters of Credit  

Certain of our vendors require letters of credit to ensure reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on our behalf, such as to beneficiaries under our self-funded insurance programs. In addition, from time to time some customers require us to post letters of credit to ensure payment to our subcontractors and vendors under those contracts and to guarantee performance under our contracts. Such letters of credit are generally issued by a bank or similar financial institution. The letter of credit commits the issuer to pay specified amounts to the holder of the letter of credit if the holder demonstrates that we have failed to perform specified actions. If this were to occur, we would be required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit. Depending on the circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may also have to record a charge to earnings for the reimbursement. We do not believe that it is likely that any material claims will be made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable future.  

As of December 31, 2011, we had $191.4 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility primarily to secure obligations under our casualty insurance program. These are irrevocable stand-by letters of credit with maturities generally expiring at various times throughout 2012. Upon maturity, it is expected that the majority of these letters of credit will be renewed for subsequent one-year periods.  

Performance Bonds and Parent Guarantees  

Many customers, particularly in connection with new construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. Under our underwriting, continuing indemnity and security agreement with our sureties and with the consent of our lenders under our credit facility, we have granted security interests in certain of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the sureties. In addition, we have assumed obligations with other sureties with respect to bonds issued on behalf of acquired companies that were outstanding as of the applicable dates of acquisition. To the extent these bonds have not expired or been replaced, we may be required to transfer to the applicable sureties certain of our assets as collateral in the event of default under these other agreements. We may be required to post letters of credit or other collateral in favor of the sureties or our customers in the future. Posting letters of credit in favor of the sureties or our customers would reduce the borrowing availability under our credit facility. To date, we have not been required to make any reimbursements to our sureties for bond-related costs. We believe that it is unlikely that we will have to fund significant claims under our surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2011, the total amount of outstanding performance bonds was approximately $2.18 billion, and the estimated cost to complete these bonded projects was approximately $722.5 million.  

52  

Table of Contents 

From time to time, we guarantee the obligations of our wholly owned subsidiaries, including obligations under certain contracts with customers, certain lease obligations, certain joint venture arrangements and, in some states, obligations in connection with obtaining contractors’ licenses. We are not aware of any material obligations for performance or payment asserted against us under any of these guarantees.  

Contractual Obligations  

As of December 31, 2011, our future contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The committed capital expenditures for fiber optic networks represent commitments related to signed contracts with customers. The amounts are estimates of costs required to build the networks under contract. The actual capital expenditures related to building the networks could vary materially from these estimates.  

As of December 31, 2011, the total unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions was $47.4 million. We do not expect any significant amount to be paid related to these positions within the next twelve months. However, we believe it is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months unrecognized tax benefits may decrease up to $12.1 million due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. We are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates regarding the timing of future cash outflows, if any, associated with the remaining unrecognized tax benefits.  

The above table does not reflect estimated contractual obligations under the multi-employer pension plans in which our union employees participate. Several of our operating units are parties to various collective bargaining agreements that require us to provide to the employees subject to these agreements specified wages and benefits, as well as to make contributions to multi-employer pension plans. Our multi-employer pension plan contribution rates generally are specified in the collective bargaining agreements (usually on an annual basis), and contributions are made to the plans on a “pay-as-you-go” basis based on our union employee payrolls. Our obligations for contributions to multi-employer pension plans cannot be determined for future periods because the location and number of union employees that we have employed at any given time and the plans in which they may participate vary depending on the projects we have ongoing at any time and the need for union resources in connection with those projects.  

We may also have additional liabilities imposed by law as a result of our participation in multi-employer defined benefit pension plans. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended by the Multi-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980, imposes certain liabilities upon employers who are contributors to a multi-employer plan if the employer withdraws from the plan or the plan is terminated or experiences a mass withdrawal. These liabilities include an allocable share of the unfunded vested benefits in the plan for all plan participants, not merely the benefits payable to a contributing employer’s own retirees. Other than as noted below, we are not aware of any material amounts of withdrawal liability that have been or are expected to be incurred as a result of a withdrawal by any of our operating units from any multi-employer defined benefit pension plans.  

We may also be required to make additional contributions to our multi-employer pension plans if they become underfunded, and these additional contributions generally will be determined based on our union employee payrolls. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 added special funding and operational rules generally applicable to plan years beginning after 2007 for multi-employer plans that are classified as “endangered,”  

53  

Table of Contents 

 “seriously endangered” or “critical” status. Plans in these classifications must adopt measures to improve their funded status through a funding improvement or rehabilitation plan, which may require additional contributions from employers (which may take the form of a surcharge on benefit contributions) and/or modifications to retiree benefits. A number of multi-employer plans to which our operating units contribute or may contribute in the future are in “endangered,” “seriously endangered” or “critical” status. The amount of additional funds, if any, that we may be obligated to contribute to these plans in the future cannot be estimated and is not included in the above table, as such amounts will likely be based on future work that requires the specific use of the union employees covered by these plans, and the amount of that future work and the number of employees that may be affected cannot reasonably be estimated.  

We recorded a partial withdrawal liability of approximately $32.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 related to the withdrawal by certain of our subsidiaries from the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan (the Central States Plan). The partial withdrawal liability we recognized is based on the most recent information and estimates received from the Central States Plan during 2011 for a complete withdrawal by all of our subsidiaries participating in the Central States Plan. We expect to receive a formal assessment of the partial withdrawal liability from the Central States Plan, which is expected to occur no earlier than 2013, and we may seek to challenge and further negotiate the assessment at that time. As a result, the final partial withdrawal liability cannot yet be determined with certainty and could be materially higher or lower than the charges we have recognized. Following the formal assessment, we will be required to pay the assessed amount over a period of years, although the number of years is not certain and we may also negotiate a lump-sum payment. As a result of these various factors, the estimated partial withdrawal liability of $32.6 million has not been included in the table above. For additional information regarding the partial withdrawal liability, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Items 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Self-Insurance  

We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. As of August 1, 2011, all policies were renewed with deductibles continuing at existing levels of $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary domestic plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year.  

Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $201.2 million and $216.8 million, with $155.4 million and $164.3 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $63.1 million and $66.3 million, of which $9.8 million and $9.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $53.3 million and $56.9 million are included in other assets, net.  

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage is too high for the additional benefit obtained. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  

Concentration of Credit Risk  

We are subject to concentrations of credit risk related primarily to our cash and cash equivalents and our accounts receivable, including amounts related to unbilled accounts receivable and costs and estimated earnings  

54  

Table of Contents 

 in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. Substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. In accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. Although we do not currently believe the principal amount of these investments is subject to any material risk of loss, economic conditions have significantly impacted the interest income we receive from these investments and is likely to continue to do so in the future. In addition, we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power, natural gas and pipeline companies, telecommunications service providers, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States and Canada. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the United States and Canada, which may be heightened as a result of depressed economic and financial market conditions that have existed in recent years. However, we generally have certain statutory lien rights with respect to services provided. Under certain circumstances, such as foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. In such circumstances, extended time frames may be required to liquidate these assets, causing the amounts realized to differ from the value of the assumed receivable. Historically, some of our customers have experienced significant financial difficulties, and others may experience financial difficulties in the future. These difficulties expose us to increased risk related to collectability of billed and unbilled receivables and costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts for services we have performed. One customer accounted for approximately 11% of consolidated revenues during the year ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 12% of billed and accrued receivables at December 31, 2010. Business with this customer is included in the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment. No other customers represented 10% or more of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 or of billed and unbilled accounts receivable as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.  

Litigation and Claims  

We are from time to time party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract and/or property damages, employment-related damages, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we record a reserve when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In addition, we disclose matters for which management believes a material loss is at least reasonably possible. See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for additional information regarding litigation and claims.  

Related Party Transactions  

In the normal course of business, we enter into transactions from time to time with related parties. These transactions typically take the form of facility leases with prior owners of certain acquired companies.  

Inflation  

Due to relatively low levels of inflation experienced during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, inflation did not have a significant effect on our results.  

New Accounting Pronouncements  

Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements. During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2011-09, “Compensation — Retirement Benefits — Multiemployer Plans (Subtopic 715-80): Disclosures about an Employer’s Participation in a Multiemployer Plan” (ASU 2011-09).  

55  

Table of Contents 

 This guidance requires employers to make various disclosures for each individually significant multiemployer plan that provides pension benefits to its employees. Generally, an employer must disclose the employer’s contributions to the plan during the period and provide a description of the nature and effect of any significant changes that affect comparability of total employer contributions from period to period. Additionally, the employer is required to provide a description of the nature of the plan benefits, a qualitative description of the extent to which the employer could be responsible for the obligations of the plan, including benefits earned by employees during employment with another employer and other quantitative information, to the extent available, as of the most recent date available, to help users understand the financial information for each significant plan. An employer should also provide disclosures for total contributions made to all plans that are not individually significant and total contributions made to all plans. If certain quantitative information cannot be obtained without undue cost and effort, that quantitative information may be omitted, although the employer should describe what information has been omitted and why. The required disclosures must be provided retrospectively for all prior periods. The adoption of ASU 2011-09 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows but did impact the disclosures in the notes to our consolidated financial statements.  

In May 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2011-04, “Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs” (ASU 2011-04), which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance amends certain accounting and disclosure requirements related to fair value measurements. Additional disclosure requirements in the update include: (1) for Level 3 fair value measurements, quantitative information about unobservable inputs used, a description of the valuation processes used by the entity, and a qualitative discussion about the sensitivity of the measurements to changes in the unobservable inputs; (2) for an entity’s use of a nonfinancial asset that is different from the asset’s highest and best use, the reason for the difference; (3) for financial instruments not measured at fair value but for which disclosure of fair value is required, the fair value hierarchy level in which the fair value measurements were determined; and (4) the disclosure of all transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. We adopted ASU 2011-04 on January 1, 2012. We do not anticipate that ASU 2011-04 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, but will consider whether any additional disclosures are necessary.  

In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, “Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Presentation of Comprehensive Income” (ASU 2011-05), which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2011. Accordingly, we adopted ASU 2011-05 on January 1, 2012. This guidance eliminates the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. This guidance is intended to increase the prominence of other comprehensive income in financial statements by requiring that such amounts be presented either in a single continuous statement of income and comprehensive income or separately in consecutive statements of income and comprehensive income. The adoption of ASU 2011-05 is not expected to have a material impact on our disclosures. 

Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted. In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, “Intangibles — Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment (the revised standard)” (ASU 2011-08), which is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance gives entities the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the current two-step goodwill impairment test. If an entity believes that, as a result of its qualitative assessment, it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is required. Otherwise, no further testing is required. An entity can choose to perform the qualitative assessment on none, some or all of its reporting units. An entity can also bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to step one of the impairment test, and then resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. ASU 2011-08 also includes new qualitative indicators that replace those currently used to determine whether an interim goodwill impairment test is required to be performed. The adoption of ASU 2011-08 is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

56  

Table of Contents 

Critical Accounting Policies  

The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date the consolidated financial statements are published and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented. We review all significant estimates affecting our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis and record the effect of any necessary adjustments prior to their publication. Judgments and estimates are based on our beliefs and assumptions derived from information available at the time such judgments and estimates are made. Uncertainties with respect to such estimates and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of financial statements. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Management has reviewed its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:  

Revenue Recognition  

Infrastructure Services — Through our Electric Power Infrastructure Services, Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services and Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segments, we design, install and maintain networks for customers in the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries. These services may be provided pursuant to master service agreements, repair and maintenance contracts and fixed price and non-fixed price installation contracts. Pricing under these contracts may be competitive unit price, cost-plus/hourly (or time and materials basis) or fixed price (or lump sum basis), and the final terms and prices of these contracts are frequently negotiated with the customer. Under unit-based contracts, the utilization of an output-based measurement is appropriate for revenue recognition. Under these contracts, we recognize revenue as units are completed based on pricing established between us and the customer for each unit of delivery, which best reflects the pattern in which the obligation to the customer is fulfilled. Under our cost-plus/hourly and time and materials type contracts, we recognize revenue on an input basis, as labor hours are incurred and services are performed.  

Revenues from fixed price contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs for each contract. These contracts provide for a fixed amount of revenues for the entire project. Such contracts provide that the customer accept completion of progress to date and compensate us for services rendered, which may be measured in terms of units installed, hours expended or some other measure of progress. Contract costs include all direct materials, labor and subcontract costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs. Much of the materials associated with our work are owner-furnished and are therefore not included in contract revenues and costs. The cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, project managers and financial professionals. Changes in job performance, job conditions and final contract settlements are factors that influence management’s assessment of total contract value and the total estimated costs to complete those contracts and therefore, our profit recognition. Changes in these factors may result in revisions to costs and income, and their effects are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which such losses are determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates used for revenue recognition and claim assessments, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted.  

We may incur costs subject to change orders, whether approved or unapproved by the customer, and/or claims related to certain contracts. We determine the probability that such costs will be recovered based upon evidence such as past practices with the customer, specific discussions or preliminary negotiations with the customer or verbal approvals. We treat items as a cost of contract performance in the period incurred if it is not  

57  

Table of Contents 

 probable that the costs will be recovered or will recognize revenue if it is probable that the contract price will be adjusted and can be reliably estimated. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we had approximately $77.3 million and $83.1 million of change orders and/or claims that had been included as contract price adjustments on certain contracts which were in the process of being negotiated in the normal course of business.  

The current asset “Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts” represents revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed for fixed price contracts. The current liability “Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts” represents billings in excess of revenues recognized for fixed price contracts.  

Fiber Optic Licensing — The Fiber Optic Licensing segment constructs and licenses the right to use fiber optic telecommunications facilities to its customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic facility, with the facility owned and maintained by us. Revenues, including any initial fees or advance billings, are recognized ratably over the expected length of the agreements, including probable renewal periods. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, initial fees and advance billings on these licensing agreements not yet recorded in revenue were $47.4 million and $44.4 million and are recognized as deferred revenue, with $38.3 million and $34.7 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Actual revenues may differ from those estimates if the contracts are not renewed as expected.  

Self-Insurance. We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. Since August 1, 2009, policy deductible levels are $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee healthcare benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For the policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, for the policy year ended July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles were generally lower in periods prior to August 1, 2008.  

Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the extent of damage, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties and the number of incidents not reported. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends, and management believes such accruals are adequate. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $201.2 million and $216.8 million, with $155.4 million and $164.3 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $63.1 million and $66.3 million, of which $9.8 million and $9.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $53.3 million and $56.9 million are included in other assets, net.  

We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or we may elect not to obtain certain types or incremental levels of insurance if we believe that the cost to obtain such coverage is too high for the additional benefit obtained. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  

Valuation of Goodwill. We have recorded goodwill in connection with our acquisitions. Goodwill is subject to an annual assessment for impairment using a two-step fair value-based test, which we perform at the  

58  

Table of Contents 

 operating unit level. Each of our operating units is organized into one of three internal divisions, which are closely aligned with our reportable segments, based on the predominant type of work performed by the operating unit at the point in time the divisional designation is made. Because separate measures of assets and cash flows are not produced or utilized by management to evaluate segment performance, our impairment assessments of our goodwill do not include any consideration of assets and cash flows by reportable segment. As a result, we have determined that our individual operating units represent our reporting units for the purpose of assessing goodwill impairments.  

Our goodwill impairment assessment is performed annually at year-end, or more frequently if events or circumstances exist which indicate that goodwill may be impaired. For instance, a decrease in our market capitalization below book value, a significant change in business climate or a loss of a significant customer, among other things, may trigger the need for interim impairment testing of goodwill associated with one or all of our reporting units. The first step of the two-step fair value-based test involves comparing the fair value of each of our reporting units with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill to the implied fair value of its goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss would be recorded as a reduction to goodwill with a corresponding charge to operating expense.  

We determine the fair value of our reporting units using a weighted combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches, with heavier weighting on the discounted cash flow method, as in management’s opinion, this method currently results in the most accurate calculation of a reporting unit’s fair value. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Such estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates, weighted average costs of capital and future market conditions, among others. We believe that the estimates and assumptions used in our impairment assessments are reasonable and based on available market information, but variations in any of the assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value and determinations of whether or not an impairment is indicated.  

Under the discounted cash flow method, we determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted to present value using risk-adjusted industry discount rates, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Cash flow projections are derived from budgeted amounts and operating forecasts (typically a two-year model) plus an estimate of later period cash flows, all of which are evaluated by management. Subsequent period cash flows are developed for each reporting unit using growth rates that management believes are reasonably likely to occur along with a terminal value derived from the reporting unit’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The EBITDA multiples for each reporting unit are based on trailing twelve-month comparable industry data.  

Under the market multiple and market capitalization approaches, we determine the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units by applying transaction multiples to each reporting unit’s projected EBITDA and then averaging that estimate with similar historical calculations using either a one, two or three year average. For the market capitalization approach, we add a reasonable control premium, which is estimated as the premium that would be received in a sale of the reporting unit in an orderly transaction between market participants.  

59  

Table of Contents 

The projected cash flows and estimated levels of EBITDA by reporting unit were used to determine fair value under the three approaches discussed herein. The following table presents the significant estimates used by management in determining the fair values of our reporting units at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For recently acquired reporting units, a step one impairment test may indicate an implied fair value that is substantially similar to the reporting unit’s carrying value. Such similarities in value are generally an indication that management’s estimates of future cash flows associated with the recently acquired reporting unit remain relatively consistent with the assumptions that were used to derive its initial fair value. During the fourth quarter of 2011, a goodwill impairment analysis was performed for each of our operating units, which indicated that the implied fair value of each of our operating units was substantially in excess of carrying value. Following the analysis, management concluded that no impairment was indicated at any operating unit. As discussed generally above, when evaluating the 2011 step one impairment test results, management considered many factors in determining whether or not an impairment of goodwill for any reporting unit was reasonably likely to occur in future periods, including future market conditions and the economic environment in which our reporting units were operating. Circumstances such as continued market declines, the loss of a major customer or other factors could impact the valuation of goodwill in future periods.  

The goodwill analysis performed for each operating unit was based on estimates and industry comparables obtained from the electric power, natural gas and pipeline, telecommunications and fiber optic licensing industries, and no impairment was indicated. The 15-year discounted cash flow model used for fiber optic licensing was based on the long-term nature of the underlying fiber network licensing agreements.  

We assigned a higher weighting to the discounted cash flow approach in all periods to reflect increased expectations of market value being determined from a “held and used” model. Discount rates for the 2011 analysis were decreased for the operating units providing predominately electric power, natural gas and pipeline and telecommunications infrastructure services due to generally more favorable market conditions for these operating units from 2010. At December 31, 2010, certain EBITDA multiples were increased slightly from 2009 to reflect more favorable market conditions as the effects of the economic recession had lessened.  

As stated previously, cash flows are derived from budgeted amounts and operating forecasts that have been evaluated by management. In connection with the 2011 assessment, projected annual growth rates by reporting unit varied widely with ranges from 0% to 39% for operating units in the electric power and the natural gas and pipeline divisions, 0% to 30% for operating units in telecommunications and 0% to 20% for the operating unit in fiber optic licensing.  

60  

Table of Contents 

Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. Changes in our judgments and projections could result in a significantly different estimate of the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets and could result in an impairment. Variances in the assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital, growth rates and acquisition multiples applied could have an impact on the assessment of impairments and any amount of goodwill impairment charges recorded. For example, lower growth rates, lower acquisition multiples or higher costs of capital assumptions would all individually lead to lower fair value assessments and potentially increased frequency or size of goodwill impairments. Any goodwill or other intangible impairment would be included in the consolidated statements of operations.  

Based on the first step of the goodwill impairment analysis, we determined that, as of December 31, 2011, the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of its carrying value. We considered the sensitivity of these fair value estimates to changes in certain of management’s assumptions, and after giving consideration to at least a 10% decrease in the fair value of each of our reporting units, the results of our assessment would not have changed. Additionally, we compared the sum of fair values of our reporting units to our market capitalization at December 31, 2011 and determined that the excess of the aggregate fair value of all reporting units to our market capitalization reflected a reasonable control premium. Our market capitalization at December 31, 2011 was approximately $4.53 billion, and our total equity was approximately $3.39 billion. Accordingly, we determined that there was no goodwill impairment at December 31, 2011. Increases in the carrying value of individual reporting units that may be indicated by our impairment tests are not recorded, therefore we may record goodwill impairments in the future, even when the aggregate fair value of our reporting units as a whole may increase.  

We and our customers continue to operate in a challenging business environment, with increasing regulatory requirements and only gradual recovery in the economy and capital markets from recessionary levels. We are closely monitoring our customers and the effect that changes in economic and market conditions have had or may have on them. Certain of our customers have reduced spending in recent years, which we attribute to the negative economic and market conditions, and we anticipate that these negative conditions may continue to affect demand for some of our services in the near-term. We continue to evaluate the impact of the economic environment on our reporting units and the valuation of recorded goodwill. Although we are not aware of circumstances that would lead to a goodwill impairment at a reporting unit currently, circumstances such as a continued market decline, the loss of a major customer or other factors could impact the valuation of goodwill in the future.  

Our goodwill is included in multiple reporting units. Due to the cyclical nature of our business, and the other factors described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, the profitability of our individual reporting units may suffer from downturns in customer demand and other factors. These factors may have a disproportionate impact on the individual reporting units as compared to Quanta as a whole and might adversely affect such fair value of individual reporting units. If material adverse conditions occur that impact our reporting units, our future estimates of fair value may not support the carrying amount of one or more of our reporting units, and the related goodwill would need to be written down to an amount considered recoverable.  

Valuation of Other Intangibles. Our intangible assets include customer relationships, backlog, trade names, non-compete agreements, patented rights and developed technology and software, all subject to amortization, along with other intangible assets not subject to amortization. The value of customer relationships is estimated as of the date a business is acquired using the value-in-use concept utilizing the income approach, specifically the excess earnings method. The excess earnings analysis consists of discounting to present value the projected cash flows attributable to the customer relationships, with consideration given to customer contract renewals, the importance or lack thereof of existing customer relationships to our business plan, income taxes and required rates of return. We value backlog as of the date a business is acquired based upon the contractual nature of the backlog within each service line, using the income approach to discount back to present value the cash flows attributable to the backlog. The value of trade names is estimated as of the date a business is acquired  

61  

Table of Contents 

 using the relief-from-royalty method of the income approach. This approach is based on the assumption that in lieu of ownership, a company would be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of this intangible asset.  

We amortize intangible assets based upon the estimated consumption of the economic benefits of each intangible asset or on a straight-line basis if the pattern of economic benefits consumption cannot otherwise be reliably estimated. Intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment and are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For instance, a significant change in business climate or a loss of a significant customer, among other things, may trigger the need for interim impairment testing of intangible assets. An impairment loss would be recognized if the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value.  

Valuation of Long-Lived Assets. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be realizable. If an evaluation is required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset are compared to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if an impairment of such asset is necessary. This requires us to make long-term forecasts of the future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. Forecasts require assumptions about demand for our products and future market conditions. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized. Future events and unanticipated changes to assumptions could require a provision for impairment in a future period. The effect of any impairment would be to expense the difference between the fair value of such asset and its carrying value. Such expense would be reflected in income (loss) from operations in the consolidated statements of operations. In addition, we estimate the useful lives of our long-lived assets and other intangibles and periodically review these estimates to determine whether these lives are appropriate.  

Current and Long-term Accounts and Notes Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts when collection of an account or note receivable is considered doubtful, and receivables are written off against the allowance when deemed uncollectible. Inherent in the assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and estimates including, among others, our customer’s access to capital, our customer’s willingness or ability to pay, general economic and market conditions and the ongoing relationship with the customer. Quanta considers accounts receivable delinquent after 30 days but does not generally include delinquent accounts in its analysis of the allowance for doubtful accounts unless the accounts receivable have been outstanding for at least 90 days. In addition to balances that have been outstanding for 90 days or more, Quanta also includes accounts receivable in its analysis of the allowance for doubtful accounts if they relate to customers in bankruptcy or with other known difficulties. Under certain circumstances such as foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. Material changes in our customers’ business or cash flows, which may be impacted by negative economic and market conditions, could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. Should customers experience financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or should anticipated recoveries relating to the receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided.  

Income Taxes. We follow the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the underlying assets or liabilities are recovered or settled.  

We regularly evaluate valuation allowances established for deferred tax assets for which future realization is uncertain. The estimation of required valuation allowances includes estimates of future taxable income. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the  

62  

Table of Contents 

 periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. If actual future taxable income differs from our estimates, we may not realize deferred tax assets to the extent estimated.  

We record reserves for expected tax consequences of uncertain tax positions assuming that the taxing authorities have full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts. The income tax laws and regulations are voluminous and are often ambiguous. As such, we are required to make many subjective assumptions and judgments regarding our tax positions that could materially affect amounts recognized in our future consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations.  

Outlook  

We and our customers continue to operate in a difficult business environment, with gradual improvement in the economy and continuing uncertainty in the marketplace. Our customers are also facing stringent regulatory and environmental requirements as they implement projects to enhance the overall state of their infrastructure. These economic and regulatory factors have negatively affected our results in the past. However, we are currently experiencing increased activity and spending in the industries we serve, and we expect these increases to continue through 2012, although the regulatory obstacles our customers must overcome continue to create some uncertainty as to the timing of spending. We believe that our financial and operational strengths will enable us to manage these challenges and uncertainties, and we continue to be optimistic about our long-term opportunities in each of the industries we serve.  

Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment  

The North American electric grid is aging and requires significant upgrades and maintenance to meet current and future demands for power. Over the past several years, many utilities across North America have begun to implement plans to improve their transmission systems, improve reliability and reduce congestion, and new construction, structure change-outs, line upgrades and maintenance projects on many transmission systems are occurring or planned. In addition, state renewable portfolio standards, which set required or voluntary standards for how much power is to be generated from renewable energy sources, as well as general environmental concerns, are driving the development of renewable energy projects, with a stronger focus currently on utility-scale and distributed solar projects. The construction of renewable energy facilities can result in the need for additional transmission lines and substations to transport the power from the facilities, which are often in remote locations, to demand centers. We believe these factors reflect strong opportunities for our transmission infrastructure services, as well as opportunities for us to provide engineering, project management, materials procurement and installation services for renewable energy projects.  

In the recent past, the regulatory environment has affected the timing and scope of certain transmission projects, although certain of these delayed projects are now moving into construction. We believe that utilities remain committed to the expansion and strengthening of their transmission infrastructure, with planning, engineering and funding for many of their projects in place. In the second half of 2010 and throughout 2011, a number of large-scale transmission projects were awarded, indicating that transmission build-out programs by our customers have begun and transmission spending is on the rise. Regulatory and environmental processes and permitting remain a hurdle for some proposed transmission and renewable energy projects, continuing to create uncertainty as to timing on this spending. Timing and scope of these projects can also be affected by other factors such as siting, right-of-way and unfavorable economic and market conditions. The economic feasibility of renewable energy projects, and therefore the attractiveness of investment in the projects, may also depend on the availability of tax incentive programs or the ability of the projects to take advantage of such incentives, and there is no assurance that the government will extend existing tax incentives or create new incentive or funding programs. We anticipate many of these issues to be overcome and spending on transmission projects to be robust over the next few years, resulting in a continued shift over the near- and long-term in our electric power services mix to a greater proportion of high-voltage electric power transmission and substation projects. We also  

63  

Table of Contents 

 anticipate continuing development of renewable energy projects in the near-term, primarily utility-scale solar facilities, creating increased opportunities for our engineering, procurement and construction services for these projects.  

With respect to our electric power distribution services, we saw a slowdown in spending by our customers for more than two years on their distribution systems, which we believe is due primarily to adverse economic and market conditions. Some increase in distribution spending occurred in the latter part of 2010 and throughout 2011, but we are cautious with respect to the sustainability of the increase in distribution spending given continued economic uncertainties. However, as a result of reduced spending by utilities on their distribution systems for the past few years, we believe there is a growing need for utilities to resume sustained investment on their distribution systems to properly maintain the system and to meet reliability requirements. We also anticipate that utilities will continue to integrate “smart grid” technologies into their transmission and distribution systems to improve grid management and create efficiencies. Development and installation of smart grid technologies and other energy efficiency initiatives have benefited from stimulus funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), as well as the implementation of grid management initiatives by utilities and the desire by consumers for more efficient energy use.  

Several existing, pending or proposed legislative or regulatory actions may also positively affect demand for the services provided by this segment in the long term, particularly in connection with electric power infrastructure and renewable energy spending. For example, legislative or regulatory action that alleviates some of the siting and right-of-way challenges that impact transmission projects would potentially accelerate future transmission line construction. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) recently issued FERC Order No. 1000 to promote more efficient and cost-effective development of new transmission facilities. The order establishes transmission planning and cost allocation requirements intended to facilitate multi-state electric transmission lines and to encourage competition by removing, under certain conditions, federal rights of first refusal from FERC-approved tariffs and agreements. We believe FERC Order No. 1000 will have a favorable impact on electric transmission line development, although the impact of its implementation is not expected to occur for several years. We also anticipate increased infrastructure spending by our customers as a result of legislation requiring the power industry to meet federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems and providing incentives to the industry to invest in and improve maintenance on its systems. Certain aspects of the ARRA have also provided various incentives, such as tax credits, grants and loan guarantees, for renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power infrastructure projects, although the feasibility of similar projects in the future will be affected when or if these incentives are no longer in effect. The benefits of pending or proposed legislation could also be impacted by the timing and scope of such legislation if and when enacted.  

Several industry and market trends are also prompting customers in the electric power industry to seek outsourcing partners. These trends include an aging utility workforce, increasing costs and labor issues. We believe the economic recession in the United States slowed employee retirements by many utility workers, causing the growth trend in outsourcing to temporarily pause. As the economy continues to recover, we believe utility employee retirements could return to normal levels, which should result in an increase in outsourcing opportunities. The need to ensure available labor resources for larger projects also drives strategic relationships with customers.  

Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment  

We see strong potential growth opportunities over the long-term in our natural gas and pipeline operations, primarily in the installation and maintenance of natural gas and oil pipelines, gathering systems and related facilities, as well as pipeline integrity and specialty services such as horizontal directional drilling. We believe opportunities for this segment exist as a result of the increase in the ongoing development of unconventional shale formations that produce natural gas and/or oil, as well as the development of Canadian oil sands, which will require the construction of transmission pipeline infrastructure to connect production with demand centers and the development of midstream gathering infrastructure within areas of production. We also believe the goals of  

64  

Table of Contents 

 clean energy and energy independence for the United States will make abundant, low-cost natural gas the fuel of choice to replace coal for power generation until renewable energy becomes a significant part of the overall generation of electricity, creating the need for continued investment in natural gas infrastructure. We believe our position as a leading provider of transmission pipeline infrastructure services in North America will allow us to capitalize on these opportunities.  

The natural gas and oil industry is cyclical and subject to volatility as a result of fluctuations in natural gas and oil prices. In the past, these dynamics have negatively impacted the development of natural resources and related infrastructure such as when natural gas and/or oil prices have declined or remained depressed for sustained periods. In addition, environmental scrutiny, stringent regulatory requirements and cumbersome permitting processes have caused delays in some transmission pipeline projects. During 2011, we participated in numerous bidding opportunities for transmission pipeline projects, but some of these projects were delayed due to permitting challenges and heightened environmental scrutiny. However, several delayed projects were awarded and began to move toward construction in 2011, and similar activity has continued into 2012.  

The project delays we experienced in 2011 negatively impacted our natural gas and pipeline segment margins associated with our transmission pipeline operations, in part as a result of our inability to cover fixed costs. Project delays in the future could have a similar impact on margins for this segment. Margins for our transmission pipeline projects are also subject to significant performance risk, which can arise from weather conditions, geography, customer decisions and crew productivity. Our specific opportunities in the transmission pipeline business are sometimes difficult to predict because of the seasonality of the bidding and construction cycles within the industry. Many projects are bid and awarded in the first part of the year, with construction activities compressed in the third and fourth quarters of the year. As a result, we are often limited in our ability to determine the outlook, including backlog, for this business until we near the close of the bidding cycle.  

To address some of this cyclicality, we are diversifying our service offerings for the segment by focusing on midstream gathering infrastructure opportunities. We have increased our presence in areas where unconventional shale formations are located, including through the establishment of offices in several areas, to better position us to successfully pursue projects associated with midstream gathering infrastructure development. The relatively consistent nature of this work could offset some of the cyclical nature of the transmission pipeline business while also providing us growth opportunities. Given the current attractive pricing environment for crude oil and natural gas liquids, we see increased activity and more opportunities in the liquid-rich unconventional shales and are therefore strategically focusing our efforts to provide services for midstream gathering systems in these shales.  

We also see growth potential in some of our other pipeline services. The U.S. Department of Transportation has implemented significant regulatory legislation through the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration relating to pipeline integrity requirements that we expect will increase the demand for our pipeline integrity, rehabilitation and replacement services over the long-term. As pipeline integrity testing requirements increase in stringency and frequency, we believe more information will be gathered about the condition of the nation’s pipeline infrastructure and will result in an increase in spending by our customers on pipeline integrity initiatives. In early 2012, we acquired an engineering, research and development business that develops and owns pipeline inspection tools, enhancing our pipeline integrity capabilities. We believe that our ability to offer a complete turnkey solution to pipeline companies and gas utilities provides us an advantageous position in providing these services to our customers.  

Over the past several years, our natural gas operations have been challenged by lower margins in connection with our natural gas distribution services, which were more significantly affected by the economic downturn than other operations in this segment. To improve our ability to be competitive and to generate improved margins from natural gas distribution projects, we restructured our natural gas distribution operations in 2011 to better align our cost structure to the competitive environment, which we believe should enable us to improve margins on natural gas distribution projects over time. 

65  

Table of Contents 

Overall, we are optimistic about this segment’s operations in the future. We continue to believe that transmission pipeline opportunities can provide strong profitability, although these projects and the profits they generate are often subject to various risks beyond our control. We have also taken steps to diversify our operations in this segment through other services, such as pipeline integrity and gathering system opportunities, and to restructure our gas distribution operations to improve margins. We believe these measures, together with the potential in transmission pipeline opportunities, will position us for profitable growth in this segment over the long-term.  

Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment  

Our telecommunications services operations are seeing increasing opportunities as stimulus funding for broadband deployment to underserved areas continues to progress through the engineering phase into construction. Approximately $7.2 billion in funding has been awarded under the ARRA for numerous broadband deployment projects across the U.S. To receive funding for these projects, however, awardees are generally required to file environmental impact statements, the approval of which has delayed projects. While some of these projects are still waiting on required permits and approvals, most of the projects have received approvals and are moving forward with construction. As awardees receive their environmental impact permits and ARRA funding, projects are being rapidly deployed to meet stimulus deadlines that require completion of projects within three years, which will extend through 2013 for many projects. We anticipate this deployment schedule will increase spending for telecommunications services through 2013. We also anticipate some of our customers that received stimulus funding to continue to expand their networks even though stimulus funding may no longer be available.  

We expect spending to continue by our customers on fiber optic backhaul systems to provide links from wireless cell sites to broader voice, data and video networks. The substantial growth in wireless data traffic is significantly straining the capacity of traditional backhaul infrastructure. Capacity constraints, as well as the need for improved quality and reliability, are driving wireless carriers to upgrade existing backhaul systems to fiber optic backhaul systems using fiber optic cable, referred to as “fiber to the cell site” initiatives. In addition, several wireless companies have announced plans to increase their cell site deployments over the next few years, continue network enhancement initiatives and accommodate the deployment of next generation wireless technologies. In particular, the transition to 4G and LTE (long-term evolution) technology by wireless service providers will require significant modification of their networks and new cell sites. We also believe opportunities remain over the long-term as a result of fiber build-out initiatives by wireline carriers and government organizations, although we do not expect spending for these initiatives to increase significantly over the levels experienced in the past two years. We anticipate that the opportunities in both wireline and wireless businesses will increase demand for our telecommunications services over the long-term, with the timing and amount of spending from these opportunities being dependent on future economic, market and regulatory conditions and the timing of deployment of new technologies.  

Fiber Optic Licensing Segment  

Our Fiber Optic Licensing segment is experiencing growth primarily through geographic expansion, with a focus on markets where secure high-speed networks are important, such as markets where enterprises, communications carriers and educational, financial services and healthcare institutions are prevalent. We continue to see opportunities for growth both in the markets we currently serve and new markets, although we cannot predict the adverse impact, if any, of economic conditions on these growth opportunities. Our growth opportunities, however, have been affected in the education markets, which has in the past comprised a significant portion of this segment’s revenues. We believe this slowdown is due to budgetary constraints, although these constraints appear to be easing somewhat. Our Fiber Optic Licensing segment typically generates higher margins than our other operations, but we can give no assurance that the Fiber Optic Licensing segment margins will continue at historical levels. Additionally, we anticipate the need for continued capital expenditures to support the growth in this business.  

66  

Table of Contents 

Conclusion  

We are currently seeing growth opportunities across all of the industry segments we serve, despite continuing negative effects from restrictive regulatory requirements and challenging economic conditions, which caused spending by our customers to decline in 2009 and remain slow through 2010 and portions of 2011. Constraints in the capital markets have also negatively affected some of our customers’ plans for projects in the past and may do so in the future, which could delay, reduce or suspend future projects if funding is not available.  

We are benefiting from utilities’ increased spending on projects to upgrade and build out their electric power transmission infrastructure to improve system reliability and to deliver renewable electricity from new generation sources to demand centers. We also expect utilities to outsource more of their work to companies like Quanta, due in part to their aging workforce issues. We believe that we remain the partner of choice for many utilities in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources.  

We believe that we are one of the largest full-service providers of natural gas and oil pipeline infrastructure services in North America, which positions us to leverage opportunities driven by the development and production of resources from unconventional shale plays and the Canadian oil sands. We also believe that our strategy to pursue midstream gathering system opportunities in liquid-rich unconventional shales, as well as the anticipated increase in demand for our pipeline integrity, rehabilitation and replacement services from pipeline integrity initiatives, will create attractive growth potential for us and also further diversify the services provided by our Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment. As a result, we expect additional opportunities and improved results in this segment in 2012 as compared to 2011. 

We also expect spending on electric distribution and gas distribution services, both of which have been significantly affected by the challenging economic conditions that have existed during the past two years, to experience limited growth in the near-term. We expect recovery in electric and gas distribution spending to be driven primarily by improving economic conditions, as well as increased maintenance needs driven by heightened reliability regulations.  

Demand for our telecommunications infrastructure services is increasing primarily as a result of construction activities related to projects funded by ARRA stimulus funds and fiber to the cell site initiatives by wireless carriers. Deployment of 4G and LTE wireless technologies is in the early stages and is also anticipated to increase demand for our services in the near- and long-term. As new technologies emerge in the future for communications and digital services such as voice, video, data and telecommunications, we expect service providers to work quickly to deploy fast, next-generation fiber and wireless networks, and we are and believe we will continue to be recognized as a key partner in deploying these services. 

We expect to continue to see our margins generally improve over the near and long-term, although competitive pricing environments and project delays and other effects from restrictive regulatory requirements have negatively impacted our margins in the past and could further affect our margins in the future. Additionally, margins may be negatively impacted on a quarterly basis due to adverse weather conditions, timing of projects and other factors as described in “Understanding Margins” above. We continue to focus on the elements of the business we can control, including costs, the margins we accept on projects, collecting receivables, ensuring quality service and rightsizing initiatives to match the markets we serve.  

Capital expenditures for 2012 are expected to be between $190 million to $225 million, of which approximately $40 million to $50 million of these expenditures are targeted for fiber optic network expansion, with the majority of the remaining expenditures for operating equipment. We expect 2012 capital expenditures to be funded substantially through internal cash flows and cash on hand.  

We continue to evaluate potential strategic acquisitions or investments to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation, grow our portfolio of services and increase opportunities across our operations. We believe that additional attractive acquisition candidates exist primarily as a result of the highly  

67  

Table of Contents 

 fragmented nature of the industry, the inability of many companies to expand and modernize due to capital constraints, and the desire of owners for liquidity. We also believe that our financial strength and experienced management team are attractive to acquisition candidates. 

Certain international regions present significant opportunities for growth across many of our operations. We are evaluating ways in which we can strategically apply our expertise to strengthen the infrastructure in various foreign countries where infrastructure enhancements are increasingly important. For example, we are actively pursuing opportunities in growth markets where we can leverage our technology or proprietary work methods, such as our energized services, to establish a presence in these markets. 

We believe that we are well-positioned to capitalize upon opportunities and trends in the industries we serve because of our proven full-service operations with broad geographic reach, financial capability and technical expertise. Additionally, we believe that these industry opportunities and trends will increase the demand for our services over the long-term, although the actual timing, magnitude or impact of these opportunities and trends on our operating results and financial position can be difficult to predict.  

Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information  

This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended to qualify for the “safe harbor” from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “intend” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following:  

   •    Projected revenues, earnings per share, margins, other operating or financial results and capital expenditures;  

   •    Expectations regarding our business outlook, growth or opportunities in particular markets;  

   •    The expected value of contracts or intended contracts with customers;  

   •    The scope, services, term and results of any projects awarded or expected to be awarded for services to be provided by us;  

   •    The impact of renewable energy initiatives, including mandated state renewable portfolio standards, the economic stimulus package and other existing or potential energy legislation;  

   •    Potential opportunities that may be indicated by bidding activity;  

   •    The potential benefits from acquisitions;  

   •    Estimates regarding the partial withdrawal liability from a multi-employer pension plan and factors that may affect the amount of the liability in the future;  

   •    The business plans or financial condition of our customers;  

   •    Our plans and strategies; and  

   •    The current economic and regulatory conditions and trends in the industries we serve.  

These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve or rely on a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict or beyond our control. These forward-looking statements reflect our beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements and that any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Those statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the following:  

   •    Quarterly variations in our operating results;  

68  

Table of Contents 

   •    Adverse economic and financial conditions, including weakness in the capital markets;  

   •    Trends and growth opportunities in relevant markets;  

   •    Delays, reductions in scope or cancellations of existing or pending projects, including as a result of weather, regulatory or environmental processes, project performance issues, or our customers’ capital constraints;  

   •    The successful negotiation, execution, performance and completion of anticipated, pending and existing contracts;  

   •    Our ability to attract skilled labor and retain key personnel and qualified employees;  

   •    The potential shortage of skilled employees;  

   •    Our dependence on fixed price contracts and the potential to incur losses with respect to these contracts;  

   •    Estimates relating to our use of percentage-of-completion accounting;  

   •    Adverse impacts from weather;  

   •    Our ability to generate internal growth;  

   •    Our ability to effectively compete for new projects and market share;  

   •    Competition in our business;  

   •    Potential failure of renewable energy initiatives, the economic stimulus package or other existing or potential legislation actions to result in increased demand for our services;  

   •    Liabilities associated with multi-employer pension plans, including underfunding of liabilities and termination or withdrawal liabilities;  

   •    Liabilities for claims that are self-insured or not insured;  

   •    Unexpected costs or liabilities that may arise from lawsuits or indemnity claims asserted against us;  

   •    Risks relating to the potential unavailability or cancellation of third party insurance;  

   •    Cancellation provisions within our contracts and the risk that contracts expire and are not renewed or are replaced on less favorable terms;  

   •    Loss of customers with whom we have long-standing or significant relationships;  

   •    The potential that participation in joint ventures exposes us to liability and/or harm to our reputation for acts or omissions by our partners;  

   •    Our inability or failure to comply with the terms of our contracts, which may result in unexcused delays, warranty claims, damages or contract terminations;  

   •    The effect of natural gas and oil prices on our operations and growth opportunities;  

   •    The inability of our customers to pay for services;  

   •    The failure to recover on payment claims against project owners or to obtain adequate compensation for customer-requested change orders;  

   •    The failure of our customers to comply with regulatory requirements applicable to their projects, including those related to awards of stimulus funds, which may result in project delays and cancellations;  

   •    Budgetary or other constraints that may reduce or eliminate government funding of projects, including stimulus projects, which may result in project delays or cancellations;  

   •    Estimates and assumptions in determining our financial results and backlog;  

69  

Table of Contents 

   •    Our ability to realize our backlog;  

   •    Risks associated with expanding our business in international markets, including instability of foreign governments, currency fluctuations, tax and investment strategies and compliance with the laws of foreign jurisdictions, as well as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;  

   •    Our ability to successfully identify, complete, integrate and realize synergies from acquisitions;  

   •    The potential adverse impact resulting from uncertainty surrounding acquisitions, including the ability to retain key personnel from the acquired businesses and the potential increase in risks already existing in our operations;  

   •    The adverse impact of impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets or other investments;  

   •    Our growth outpacing our decentralized management infrastructure;  

   •    Requirements relating to governmental regulation and changes thereto;  

   •    Inability to enforce our intellectual property rights or the obsolescence of such rights;  

   •    Risks related to the implementation of an information technology solution;  

   •    The impact of our unionized workforce on our operations and on our ability to complete future acquisitions;  

   •    Potential liabilities relating to occupational health and safety matters;  

   •    Our dependence on suppliers, subcontractors or equipment manufacturers;  

   •    Risks associated with our fiber optic licensing business, including regulatory changes and the potential inability to realize a return on our capital investments;  

   •    Beliefs and assumptions about the collectability of receivables;  

   •    The cost of borrowing, availability of credit, fluctuations in the price and volume of our common stock, debt covenant compliance, interest rate fluctuations and other factors affecting our financing and investment activities;  

   •    The ability to access sufficient funding to finance desired growth and operations;  

   •    Our ability to obtain performance bonds;  

   •    Potential exposure to environmental liabilities;  

   •    Our ability to continue to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002;  

   •    Rapid technological and structural changes that could reduce the demand for our services;  

   •    The impact of increased healthcare costs arising from healthcare reform legislation; and  

   •    The other risks and uncertainties as are described elsewhere herein and under Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this report on Form 10-K and as may be detailed from time to time in our other public filings with the SEC.  

All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements or that are otherwise included in this report. In addition, we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or otherwise.  

70  

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk