Item 1A. Risk Factors 

Risks Associated with the Company’s Business 

Changes in federal, state, local and third-party payer regulations or policies (or in the interpretation of current regulations or policies), insurance regulation or approvals or changes in other laws, regulations or policies may adversely affect governmental and third-party coverage and reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing and may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. 

 Government payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as insurers, including MCOs, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services. From time to time, Congress has considered and implemented changes in the Medicare fee schedules in conjunction with budgetary legislation. Further reductions of reimbursement for Medicare services or changes in policy regarding coverage of tests or other requirements for payment, such as a physician or qualified practitioner’s signature on test requisitions, may be implemented from time to time. Reimbursement for the pathology services component of the Company’s business is also subject to statutory and regulatory reduction. Reductions in the reimbursement rates of other third-party payers may occur as well. S uch changes in the past have resulted in reduced prices as well as added costs and have decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by adding more complex new regulatory and administrative requirements. Further changes in federal, state, local and third-party payer regulations or policies may have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business. Actions by agencies regulating insurance or changes in other laws, regulations, or policies may also have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. 

The Company could face significant monetary damages and penalties and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs if it violates health care anti-fraud and abuse laws. 

 The Company is subject to extensive government regulation at the federal, state and local levels. The Company’s failure to meet governmental requirements under these regulations, including those relating to billing practices and financial relationships with physicians and hospitals, could lead to civil and criminal penalties, exclusion from participation in Medicare and Medicaid and possible prohibitions or restrictions on the use of its laboratories. While the Company believes that it meets all statutory and regulatory requirements, there is a risk that government authorities might take a contrary position. Such occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could damage the Company’s reputation and adversely affect important business relationships it has with third parties. 

The Company’s business could be harmed from the loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 or those of Medicare, Medicaid or other federal, state or local agencies. 

 The clinical laboratory testing industry is subject to extensive regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations have not been interpreted by the courts. CLIA extends federal oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that they be certified by the federal government or by a federally-approved accreditation agency. The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. In addition, the Company is subject to regulation under state law. State laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain rec ords. 

 The Company cannot assure that applicable statutes and regulations will not be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely affect its business. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on the Company which may be costly. 

24 

Failure to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration Act and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, could result in fines and penalties and loss of licensure, and have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. 

 The Company is subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety, including laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as regulations relating to the safety and health of laboratory employees. All of the Company’s laboratories are subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all laboratory specimens, and they utilize outside vendors for disposal of such specimens. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employe rs, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus. These requirements, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. In addition, the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act requires, among other things, that the Company include in its safety programs the evaluation and use of engineering controls such as safety needles if found to be effective at reducing the risk of needlestick injuries in the workplace. 

 Failure to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations could subject the Company to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions which would have a material adverse effect on its business. In addition, compliance with future legislation could impose additional requirements on the Company which may be costly. 

Regulations requiring the use of “standard transactions” for health care services issued under HIPAA may negatively impact the Company’s profitability and cash flows. 

 Pursuant to HIPAA, the Secretary of HHS has issued regulations designed to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the health care system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions while protecting the privacy and security of the information exchanged. 

 The HIPAA transaction standards are complex, and subject to differences in interpretation by payers. For instance, some payers may interpret the standards to require the Company to provide certain types of information, including demographic information not usually provided to the Company by physicians. As a result of inconsistent application of transaction standards by payers or the Company’s inability to obtain certain billing information not usually provided to the Company by physicians, the Company could face increased costs and complexity, a temporary disruption in receipts and ongoing reductions in reimbursements and net revenues. In addition, new requirements for additional standard transactions, such as claims attachments, Version 5010 of the HIPAA Transaction Standards and the ICD-10-CM Code Set, could prove technically difficult, time-consuming or expensive to implement. The Company is working closely with its payers to establish acceptable protocols for claim submission and with its trade association and an industry coalition to present issues and problems as they arise to the appropriate regulators and standards setting organizations. 

Failure to maintain the security of customer-related information or compliance with security requirements could damage the Company’s reputation with customers, cause it to incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. 

 The Company receives certain personal and financial information about its customers. In addition, the Company depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. A compromise in the Company’s security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons or the Company’s failure to comply with security requirements for financial transactions could adversely affect the Company’s reputation with its customers and others, as well as the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. It could also result in litigation against the Company or the imposition 

25 

of penalties. 

Failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to comply with Version 5010 Transactions or the ICD-10-CM Code Set could adversely impact the Company’s reimbursement. 

 The Company is within the assessment and inventory phase to adopt Version 5010 Transactions and to adopt the ICD-10-CM Code Set issued by HHS on January 16, 2009. The compliance date for Version 5010 is January 1, 2012; the compliance date for ICD-10-CM Code Set is October 1, 2013. The Company will continue its assessment of information systems, applications and processes for compliance with these requirements. Clinical laboratories are typically required to submit health care claims with diagnosis codes to third party payers. The diagnosis codes must be obtained from the ordering physician. The failure of the Company, third party payers or physicians to transition within the required timeframe could have an adverse impact on reimbursement, days sales outstanding and cash collections. 

Compliance with the HIPAA security regulations and privacy regulations may increase the Company’s costs. 

 The HIPAA privacy and security regulations, including the expanded requirements under HITECH, establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the uses and disclosures of protected health information by health plans, healthcare providers and healthcare clearinghouses, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of protected health information. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including: 

    •     the circumstances under which uses and disclosures of protected health information are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, activities to obtain payments for the Company’s services, and its healthcare operations activities;    

    •     a patient’s rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of protected health information;    

    •     the content of notices of privacy practices for protected health information;    

    •     administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive protected health information; and    

    •     the protection of computing systems maintaining ePHI.    

 The Company has implemented policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, as required by law. The privacy and security regulations establish a “floor” and do not supersede state laws that are more stringent. Therefore, the Company is required to comply with both federal privacy and security regulations and varying state privacy and security laws. In addition, for healthcare data transfers from other countries relating to citizens of those countries, the Company must comply with the laws of those other countries. The federal privacy regulations restrict the Company’s ability to use or disclose patient identifiable laboratory data, without patient authorization, for purposes other than payment, treatment or healthcare operations (as defined b y HIPAA), except for disclosures for various public policy purposes and other permitted purposes outlined in the privacy regulations. HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, provides for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of protected health information in violation of the privacy and security regulations, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Due to the recent enactment of HITECH, it is not possible to predict what the extent of the impact on business will be; however, if the Company does not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to protecting the privacy and security of health information it could be subject to monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal sanctions. In addition, other federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of patient information may be subject to enforcement and interpretations by various governmental authorities and courts resulting in complex compliance issues. For example, the Company could incur damage s under state laws pursuant to an action brought by a private party for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. 

26 

 HITECH may impose additional obligations on health care entities with respect to data privacy and security. The Company is unable to predict the extent to which these new obligations may prove technically difficult, time-consuming or expensive to implement. 

Increased competition, including price competition, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. 

 The clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive both in terms of price and service. Pricing of laboratory testing services is often one of the most significant factors used by health care providers and third-party payers in selecting a laboratory. As a result of the clinical laboratory industry undergoing significant consolidation, larger clinical laboratory providers are able to increase cost efficiencies afforded by large-scale automated testing. This consolidation results in greater price competition. The Company may be unable to increase cost efficiencies sufficiently, if at all, and as a result, its net earnings and cash flows could be negatively impacted by such price competition. The Company may also face increased competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry. Additionally, the Company may also face changes in fee schedules, competitive bidding for laboratory services or other actions or pressures reducing payment schedules as a result of increased or additional competition. 

 Additional competition, including price competition, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. 

Discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products; failure to develop, or acquire, licenses for new or improved testing technologies; or the Company’s customers using new technologies to perform their own tests could adversely affect the Company’s business. 

 From time to time, manufacturers discontinue or recall reagents, test kits or instruments used by the Company to perform laboratory testing. Such discontinuations or recalls could adversely affect the Company’s costs, testing volume and revenue. 

 The clinical laboratory industry is subject to changing technology and new product introductions. The Company’s success in maintaining a leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies will depend, in part, on its ability to develop, acquire or license new and improved technologies on favorable terms and to obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement for these technologies. The Company may not be able to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements and it cannot be certain that such arrangements will yield commercially successful diagnostic tests. If the Company is unable to license these testing methods at competitive rates, its research and development costs may increase as a result. In addition, if the Company is unable to license new or improved technologies to expand its esoteric testing operations, its testing methods may become outdated when compared with the Company’s competition and testing volume and revenue may be materially and adversely affected. 

 In addition, advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective technologies such as point-of-care testing equipment that can be operated by physicians or other healthcare providers in their offices or by patients themselves without requiring the services of freestanding clinical laboratories. Development of such technology and its use by the Company’s customers could reduce the demand for its laboratory testing services and negatively impact its revenues. 

 Currently, most clinical laboratory testing is categorized as “high” or “moderate” complexity, and thereby is subject to extensive and costly regulation under CLIA. The cost of compliance with CLIA makes it impractical for most physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices, and other laws limit the ability of physicians to have ownership in a laboratory and to refer tests to such a laboratory. Manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care laboratory equipment to physicians and by selling test kits approved for home or physician office use to both physicians and patients. Diagnostic tests approved for home use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories as well as by patients in their homes with minimal regulatory oversight. Other tests meeting certain FDA criteria also may be classified as “waived” for CLIA purposes. The FDA has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used by clinical laboratories and has taken responsibility 

27 

from the Centers for Disease Control for classifying the complexity of tests for CLIA purposes. Increased approval of “waived” test kits could lead to increased testing by physicians in their offices or by patients at home, which could affect the Company’s market for laboratory testing services and negatively impact its revenues. 

Health care reform changes in government payment and reimbursement systems, or changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated reimbursement mechanisms or new national or network managed care purchasing models, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. 

 Testing services are billed to private patients, Medicare, Medicaid, commercial clients, MCOs and other insurance companies. Tests ordered by a physician may be billed to different payers depending on the medical insurance benefits of a particular patient. Most testing services are billed to a party other than the physician or other authorized person that ordered the test. Increases in the percentage of services billed to government and managed care payers could have an adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2010, requisitions (based on the total volume of requisitions excluding the Ontario, Canada joint venture) by payer were: 

    •     private patients – 1.9%    

    •     Medicare and Medicaid – 18.1%,    

    •     commercial clients – 31.1% and    

    •     managed care – 48.9%.    

 MCOs have different contracting philosophies. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and negotiate fees charged by such laboratories. Other MCOs allow any willing provider to be contracted at specified rates. The majority of the Company’s managed care testing is negotiated on a fee-for-service basis at a discount from its patient prices. Such discounts have historically resulted in price erosion and have negatively impacted the Company’s operating margins. In addition, MCOs have used capitated payment contracts in an attempt to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated payment contract, the clinical laboratory and MCO agree to a per member, per month payment to cover all laboratory tests during the month, regardless of the number or cost of the tests actually performed. Such contracts shift the risk of increased test utilization to the clinical laboratory. For the year ended December 31, 2010, capitated contracts accounted for approximately $155.1 million, or 3.1%, of the Company’s net sales. 

 A portion of the managed care fee-for-service revenues are collectible from patients in the form of deductibles, copayments and coinsurance. As patient cost-sharing increases, collectibility may be impacted. 

 Recently, certain managed care companies have adopted or expressed interest in adopting new national or laboratory network purchasing models. If the Company is unable to participate in these new models, or if the Company loses a material contract, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. 

 In addition, Medicare and Medicaid and private insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services, including clinical laboratory services. Measures to regulate health care delivery in general, and clinical laboratories in particular, have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by increasing complexity and adding new regulatory and administrative requirements. Pursuant to legislation passed in late 2003, the percentage of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare managed care plans has increased. Implementation of the ACA, the health care reform legislation passed last year, also may affect coverage, reimbursement, and utilization of laboratory services, as well as administrative r equirements. 

28 

 The Company expects efforts to impose reduced reimbursement and more stringent cost controls by government and other payers to continue. If the Company cannot offset additional reductions in the payments it receives for its services by reducing costs, increasing test volume and/or introducing new procedures, it could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. 

 As an employer, health care reform legislation also contains numerous regulations that will require the Company to implement significant process and record keeping changes to be in compliance. These changes increase the cost of providing healthcare coverage to employees and their families. Given the uncertainty of the evolving legislation, lack of clarity on the status of reforms, and limited release of regulations to guide compliance, the exact impact to employers including the Company is uncertain. 

A failure to obtain and retain new customers and alliance partners, a loss of existing customers or material contracts, or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers, could impact the Company’s ability to successfully grow its business. 

 To offset efforts by payers to reduce the cost and utilization of clinical laboratory services, the Company needs to obtain and retain new customers and alliance partners. In addition, a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers, without offsetting growth in its customer base, could impact the Company’s ability to successfully grow its business and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. The Company competes primarily on the basis of the quality of testing, reporting and information systems, reputation in the medical community, the pricing of services and ability to employ qualified personnel. The Company’s failure to successfully compete on any of these factors could result in the loss of customers and a reduction in the Company’s ability to expand its customer base. 

 In addition, the Company relies on developing alliances with hospitals to expand its business through appropriate collaborative agreements. The Company’s ability to expand the number of alliances with hospitals and maintain current alliances, many of which are terminable on short notice, could impact its ability to successfully grow its business. 

The Company may fail to realize the anticipated revenue growth expected from the acquisition of Genzyme Genetics, which could adversely affect its operating results and the market price of its common stock. 

 The success of the acquisition of Genzyme Genetics will depend, in significant part, on the Company’s ability to successfully integrate the acquired business and realize the anticipated benefits to be derived from incorporating Genzyme Genetics into its operations. The Company believes that the acquisition will provide an opportunity for revenue growth in the areas of esoteric testing and personalized medicine. Actual revenue growth, if achieved at all, may be lower than the Company expects and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If the Company is not able to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, the value of its common stock may be adversely affected. 

The integration of the acquired assets of Genzyme Genetics will be complex and involve a number of risks, and failure to successfully integrate the respective operations could significantly harm the Company’s business and results of operations. 

 Because of the structure of the transaction, as an asset carve out from Genzyme Corporation, the Company will not be integrating a stand-alone enterprise with the back-office systems and processes to support the operation of the business. The Company is currently relying upon Genzyme Corporation to provide critical business support services for a transition period and will ultimately have to transfer these activities to internal or third party resources and/or acquire new resources and increase its organizational capacity. Relying upon Genzyme Corporation to perform critical operations and services during this transition period raises a number of significant business and operational risks and there is no assurance that the transition services provided by Genzyme Corporation will be efficient or effective. As a result, integrating the operations of Genzyme Genetics will be complex and there is no assurance that the Company will not encounter material delays or unanticipated costs that could adversely affect its business and results of operations. Successful integration involves numerous risks, including: 

29 

  ·    Maintaining and transitioning relationships with key payers and other customers;  

  ·    Retaining and attracting customers following a period of significant uncertainty associated with the acquired business;  

  ·    Diversion of management attention from business and operational matters;  

  ·    Integrating accounting, information technology, enterprise management and administrative systems which may be difficult or costly;  

  ·    Making significant cash expenditures that may be required to retain personnel or eliminate unnecessary resources; and  

  ·    Maintaining uniform standards, procedures and policies to ensure efficient and compliant administration of the organization.    

 The Company could also encounter unanticipated or additional integration-related costs or fail to realize all of the benefits of the acquisition that are included in the Company’s financial model and that drive expectations for future growth and profitability. 

A failure to integrate newly acquired businesses and the costs related to such integration could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s net revenues and profitability. 

 The successful integration of any business that the Company may acquire entails numerous risks, including, among others: 

    •     issues related to revenue recognition and/or cash collections;    

    •     loss of key customers or employees;    

    •     difficulty in consolidating redundant facilities and infrastructure and in standardizing information and other systems;    

    •     failure to maintain the quality of services that such companies have historically provided;    

    •     coordination of geographically-separated facilities and workforces; and    

    •     diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day business of the Company.    

 The Company cannot assure that current or future acquisitions, if any, or any related integration efforts will be successful, or that the Company’s business will not be adversely affected by any future acquisitions. Even if the Company is able to successfully integrate the operations of companies or businesses that it may acquire in the future, the Company may not be able to realize the benefits that it expects to result from such integration, including projected cost savings. 

Adverse results in material litigation matters could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business. 

 The Company may become subject in the ordinary course of business to material legal action related to, among other things, intellectual property disputes, professional liability and employee-related matters, as well as inquiries from governmental agencies and Medicare or Medicaid carriers requesting comment on allegations of billing irregularities that are brought to their attention through billing audits or third parties. Legal actions could result in substantial monetary damages as well as damage to the Company’s reputation with customers, which could have a material adverse effect upon its business. 

30 

An inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel could adversely affect the Company’s business. 

 The loss of key management personnel or the inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified employees at the Company’s clinical laboratories and research centers could adversely affect the business. The success of the Company is dependent in part on the efforts of key members of its management team. Success in maintaining the Company’s leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies will depend in part on the Company’s ability to attract and retain skilled research professionals. In addition, the success of the Company’s clinical laboratories also depends on employing and retaining qualified and experienced laboratory professionals, including specialists, who perform clinical laboratory testing services. In the future, if competition for the services of these professionals increases, the Company may not be able to continue to attract and retain individuals in its markets. The Company’s revenues and earnings could be adversely affected if a significant number of professionals terminate their relationship with the Company or become unable or unwilling to continue their employment. 

A significant increase in the Company’s days sales outstanding could increase bad debt expense and have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. 

 Billing for laboratory services is a complex process. Laboratories bill many different payers including doctors, patients, hundreds of insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. In addition to billing complexities, the Company is experiencing more billing to patients as a result of the growth in billings to managed care fee-for-service plans which have patient copayments, coinsurance and deductibles and an increase in high deductible health plans. With these high deductible health plans, the patient is responsible for more payments prior to insurance covering the cost of care. A material change in the Company’s days sales outstanding level (“DSO”) resulting in an increase in the Company’s bad debt expense and DSO co uld have an adverse effect on the Company’s business. 

Failure in the Company’s information technology systems could significantly increase testing turn-around time or billing processes and otherwise disrupt the Company’s operations. 

 The Company’s laboratory operations depend, in part, on the continued performance of its information technology systems. Despite network security measures and other precautions the Company has taken, its information technology systems are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptions. In addition, the Company is in the process of integrating the information technology systems of its recently acquired subsidiaries, and the Company may experience system failures or interruptions as a result of this process. Sustained system failures or interruption of the Company’s systems in one or more of its laboratory operations could disrupt the Company’s ability to process laboratory requisitions, perform testing, provide test results in a timely manner and/or bill the appropriate party. Failure of the Company’s information technology systems could adversely affect the Company’s business, profitability and financial condition. 

Operations may be disrupted and adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes and earthquakes, or acts of terrorism, or other criminal activities, or disease pandemics. 

 The Company’s operations may be adversely impacted by the effects of natural disasters such as hurricanes, earthquakes, blizzards and floods, or acts of terrorism or other criminal activities or disease pandemics. Such events may result in a temporary decline in the number of patients who seek laboratory testing services. In addition, such events may temporarily interrupt the Company’s ability to transport specimens, the Company’s information technology systems, the Company’s ability to utilize certain laboratories, and/or the Company’s ability to receive material from its suppliers. 

31 

Reimbursement for services may be adversely impacted due to the failure of the Company or covered health plans to satisfy HIPAA standard transaction and code set requirements, including NPI. 

 The Administrative Simplification provisions of HIPAA have required the Department of Health and Human Services to establish national standards for electronic health care transactions and NPI. CMS requires the NPI on Part B professional claims after March 1, 2008. The failure of the Company or third parties to meet the NPI requirements for Medicare claims or other covered health plans could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s reimbursement and profitability. 

A significant deterioration in the economy could negatively impact testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit. 

 The Company’s operations are dependent upon ongoing demand for diagnostic testing services by patients, physicians, hospitals, MCOs, and others. A significant downturn in the economy could negatively impact the demand for diagnostic testing as well as the ability of patients and other payers to pay for services ordered. In addition, uncertainty in the credit markets could reduce the availability of credit and impact the Company’s ability to meet its financing needs in the future. 

Changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency exchange fluctuations could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. 

 The Company has business and operations outside the United States. Changes by foreign governments in reimbursement for the Company’s services and foreign currency fluctuations could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business. 

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None 

32 

Item 2. PROPERTIES