Item 1A. Risk Factors  

You should carefully consider the following risk factors and other information contained in this Form 10-K, including “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”. Any of these risks could materially affect our business and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, which could in turn materially affect the price of our common stock.  

We have determined that material weaknesses exist in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, have a material adverse impact on our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements.  

We are responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. As discussed in Item 9A on page 73, we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. Solely as a result  

19  

Table of Contents 

 of these material weaknesses, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting were not effective as of December 31, 2013 and that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2013.  

A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we continue to devote significant time and attention to remedy the identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, we do not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will be considered effective as of December 31, 2014 because we do not expect to complete our testing of the remediated controls by such time. See Item 9A beginning on page 73 for a description of the identified material weaknesses and related remediation plan. In addition, our remedial efforts may not be successful. Until our remediation plan is fully implemented, our management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts. If we do not complete our remediation in a timely fashion, or at all, or if our remediation plan is inadequate or we encounter difficulties in the implementation or maintenance of our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, there will continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC and/or remain in compliance with certain covenants included in our outstanding debt agreements. In addition, any failure to implement or any difficulties we encounter with our remediation plan could result in additional material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control or future material misstatements in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements.  

Our contracts (revenue arrangements) with U.S. Government customers entail certain risks.  

A decline in or a redirection of the U.S. defense budget could result in a material decrease in our sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

Our government contracts and sales are highly correlated and dependent upon the U.S. defense budget which is subject to the congressional budget authorization and appropriations process. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a September 30 fiscal year basis, even though contract periods of performance may extend over many years. Consequently, at the beginning of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress in future fiscal years. DoD budgets are a function of factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in U.S. procurement policies, budget considerations, current and future economic conditions, presidential administration priorities, changing national security and defense requirements, geopolitical developments and actual fiscal year congressional appropriations for defense budgets. Any of these factors could result in a significant decline in, or redirection of, current and future DoD budgets and impact our future results of operations, including our sales and operating income growth rates.  

The DoD budget peaked in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 (FY 2010) at $690 billion and has declined since. The total DoD enacted budget for the FY 2014 is $583 billion and complies with the sequestration cuts required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA), as amended by The American Taxpayer Relief Act (ATRA), which was enacted on January 2, 2013. ATRA delayed the effective date of the BCA sequester cuts by two months to March 1, 2013 and reduced the sequester cuts to the FY 2013 budget by $9 billion to approximately $41 billion. After ATRA, the sequestration cuts for the FY 2014 DoD budget were supposed to be $46 billion and approximately $52 billion per year from FY 2015 to FY 2018. On December 26, 2013, President Obama signed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (BBA) into law, which reduced DoD budget uncertainty for FY 2014 and FY 2015 by increasing BCA spending caps and lowering sequester cuts to the DoD base budget by $22 billion for FY 2014 and $9 billion for FY 2015. Additionally, Congress also increased the FY 2014 Overseas Contingency Operations budget by $6 billion more than the amount included in the FY 2014 Proposed Budget Request. The declining DoD budgets will reduce funding for some of our revenue arrangements and generally will have a negative impact on our sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

In addition, in the event that the federal debt limit is met, we may be required to continue to perform for some period of time on certain of our U.S Government contracts even if the U.S Government is unable to make timely payments. Furthermore, such limits could also potentially delay program/contract start dates or the U.S  

20  

Table of Contents 

 Government may issue a stop work order and choose to either resume the work or terminate the contract altogether. Any of these events would likely result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

We rely predominantly on sales to U.S. Government entities, and the loss or delay of a significant number of our contracts would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.  

Our sales are predominantly derived from contracts (revenue arrangements) with agencies of, and prime system contractors to, the U.S. Government. The loss or delay of all or a substantial portion of our sales to the U.S. Government would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Approximately 73%, or $9.2 billion, of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 were made directly or indirectly to U.S. Government agencies, including 68% to the DoD. Aggregate sales for our five largest contracts (revenue arrangements) amounted to approximately $1.6 billion, or 12% of our sales for the year ended December 31, 2013. Our largest contract (revenue arrangement) in terms of annual sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 was the Fort Rucker Maintenance Support contract with AMCOM, which is included in our Aerospace Systems segment and generated approximately 4% of our 2013 sales.  

A substantial majority of our total sales are for products and services under contracts with various agencies and procurement offices of the DoD or with prime contractors to the DoD. Although these various agencies, procurement offices and prime contractors are subject to common budgetary pressures and other factors, our customers exercise independent purchasing decisions. Because of this concentration of contracts, if a significant number of our DoD contracts and subcontracts are simultaneously delayed or cancelled for budgetary, performance or other reasons, it would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows.  

In addition to contract cancellations and declines in agency budgets, our backlog and future financial results may be adversely affected by:  

   •    curtailment of the U.S. Government’s use of technology or other services and product providers, including curtailment due to government budget reductions and related fiscal matters;  

   •    developments in Afghanistan or other geopolitical developments that affect demand for our products and services;  

   •    our ability to hire and retain personnel to meet increasing demand for our services; and  

   •    technological developments that impact purchasing decisions or our competitive position.  

The DoD’s wide-ranging efficiency and better buying power initiatives, which target affordability and cost growth, could have a material effect on the procurement process and may adversely affect our existing contracts and the award of new contracts.  

The DoD has implemented best practices to the procurement process that are intended to control cost growth throughout the acquisition cycle by developing a competitive strategy for each program. As a result, the Company has and continues to engage in more frequent negotiations and re-competitions on a cost or price analysis basis with every competitive bid in which it participates. This initiative is organized into seven focus areas: affordability, cost control, productivity incentives and innovation, competition, services acquisition, and improved professionalism. This initiative significantly changed the way the U.S. Government solicits, negotiates and manages its contracts and could result in a reduction in expenditures for the type of products we manufacture for, and services we provide to, the U.S. Government, which could have a material negative impact on our future sales, earnings and cash flows.  

In addition, the FY 2013 DoD budget reduced contractor support services and consolidation of enterprise IT systems as part of an effort to achieve another $60 billion of efficiency savings over the five fiscal years FY 2013 through FY 2017. This initiative primarily affects our businesses within the National Security Solutions reportable segment and could result in the loss of certain of our existing contracts (revenue arrangements) depending on how the DoD implements this initiative.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Our government contracts contain unfavorable termination provisions and are subject to audit and modification. If a termination right is exercised by the government, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

Companies engaged primarily in supplying defense-related equipment and services to U.S. Government agencies are subject to certain business risks peculiar to the defense industry. These risks include the ability of the U.S. Government to unilaterally:  

   •    suspend us from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations;  

   •    terminate existing contracts;  

   •    reduce the value of existing contracts; and  

   •    audit our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs.  

All of our U.S. Government contracts can be terminated by the U.S. Government either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform under the contract. Termination for convenience provisions provide only for our recovery of costs incurred or committed settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions provide for the contractor to be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. Our contracts with international governments generally contain similar provisions relating to termination at the convenience of the customer.  

U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate our costs and performance on contracts, as well as our accounting and general business practices. Based on the results of such audits, the U.S. Government may adjust our contract related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. In addition, under U.S. Government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including certain business acquisition costs, most financing costs, portions of research and development costs, and certain marketing expenses may not be reimbursable under U.S. Government contracts.  

We currently have a backlog of funded orders, primarily under contracts with the U.S. Government. Our total funded backlog was $10,368 million at December 31, 2013. As described above, the U.S. Government may unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us. Accordingly, most of our backlog could be modified or terminated by the U.S. Government, which would negatively impact our future sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

We may not be able to win competitively awarded contracts or receive required licenses to export our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

Our government contracts are subject to competitive bidding. We obtain many of our U.S. Government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We may not be able to continue to win competitively awarded contracts. In addition, awarded contracts may not generate sales sufficient to result in our profitability. We are also subject to risks associated with the following:  

   •    the frequent need to bid on programs in advance of the completion of their design, which may result in unforeseen technological difficulties and/or cost overruns;  

   •    the substantial time, effort and experience required to prepare bids and proposals for competitively awarded contracts that may not be awarded to us;  

   •    design complexity and rapid technological obsolescence; and  

   •    the constant need for design improvement.  

22  

Table of Contents 

In addition to these U.S. Government contract risks, we are not permitted to export some of our products and are also required to obtain licenses from U.S. Government agencies to export many of our products and systems. Failure to receive required licenses would eliminate our ability to sell our products and systems outside the United States.  

Intense competition and bid protests may adversely affect our sales, results of operations and cash flows.  

The defense and commercial industries in which our businesses operate are highly competitive. We expect that the DoD’s increased use of commercial off-the-shelf products and components in military equipment will continue to encourage new competitors to enter the market. We also expect increased competition for our products and services from other providers due to the uncertainty of future U.S. defense budgets. Furthermore, the current competitive environment has resulted in an increase of bid protests from unsuccessful bidders, which typically extends the time until work on a contract can begin. Additionally, some of our competitors are larger than we are and have more financial and other resources than we have. For more information concerning the factors that affect our ability to compete, see “Part I — Item 1 — Business — Competition.”  

We are subject to government investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

U.S. Government contracts are subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements, and from time to time agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether such contracts were and are being conducted in accordance with these requirements. As discussed in Note 20 to our audited consolidated financial statements, we are currently cooperating with the U.S. Government on several investigations. Under U.S. Government regulations, an indictment of the Company by a federal grand jury, or an administrative finding against us as to our present responsibility to be a U.S. Government contractor or subcontractor, could result in us being suspended for a period of time from eligibility for awards of new government contracts or task orders or in a loss of export privileges. A conviction, or an administrative finding against us that satisfies the requisite level of seriousness, could result in debarment from contracting with the federal government for a specific term.  

We are subject to the risks of current and future legal proceedings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

At any given time, we are a defendant in various material legal proceedings and litigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business, including litigation, claims and assessments that have been asserted against acquired businesses, which we have assumed. Although we maintain insurance policies, these policies may not be adequate to protect us from all material judgments and expenses related to current or future claims and may not cover the conduct that is the subject of the litigation. Desired levels of insurance may not be available in the future at economical prices or at all. In addition, we believe that while we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us, the results of litigation can be difficult to predict, including those involving jury trials. Accordingly, our current judgment as to the likelihood of our loss (or our current estimate as to the potential range of loss, if applicable) with respect to any particular litigation matter may turn out to be wrong. A significant judgment against us, arising out of any of our current or future legal proceedings and litigation, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects. For a discussion of material litigation to which we are currently a party, see Note 20 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

If we are unable to keep pace with rapidly evolving products and service offerings and technological change, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

The rapid change of technology is a key feature of most of the markets in which our products, services and systems oriented businesses operate. To succeed in the future, we will need to continue to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Historically, our technology has been developed through customer-funded and internally funded research and development and through certain business acquisitions. We may not be able to continue to maintain  

23  

Table of Contents 

 comparable levels of research and development or successfully complete such acquisitions. In the past, we have allocated substantial funds to capital expenditures, programs and other investments. This practice will continue to be required in the future. Even so, we may not be able to successfully identify new opportunities and may not have the necessary financial resources to develop new products and systems in a timely or cost-effective manner. At the same time, products and technologies developed by others may render our products, services and systems obsolete or non-competitive.  

Goodwill represents a significant asset on our balance sheet and may become impaired.  

Goodwill represents the largest asset on our balance sheet, with an aggregate balance of $7,796 million at December 31, 2013. We review goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also review goodwill annually in accordance with the accounting standards for goodwill and intangible assets. The annual impairment test requires us to determine the fair value of our reporting units in comparison to their carrying values. A decline in the estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a goodwill impairment, and a related non-cash impairment charge against earnings, if estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill.  

Our annual impairment tests at November 30, 2013 and 2012 did not result in impairments to goodwill; we did record a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $43 million as a result of our annual impairment test at November 30, 2011. The fair value of four of our reporting units exceeded the carrying value of the net assets of those reporting units by 20% or less at November 30, 2013, the date of our annual impairment assessment. These four reporting units had aggregate goodwill of approximately $2,861 million. The estimated fair values of our reporting units could be negatively impacted by potential additional reductions to the DoD budget that impact our programs, including how sequestration cuts will be implemented in FY 2015 and future fiscal year DoD budgets. A decline in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units could potentially trigger goodwill impairment charges and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies — Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets” for further discussion.  

Our results of operations and cash flows are substantially affected by our mix of fixed-price, cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts.  

Our sales are transacted using written revenue arrangements, or contracts, which are generally fixed-price, cost-plus or time-and-material. For a description of our revenue recognition policies, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies.” The table below presents the percentage of our total sales generated from each contract type.  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Substantially all of our cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts are with the U.S. Government, primarily the DoD. Substantially all of our sales to commercial customers are transacted under fixed-price sales arrangements and are included in our fixed-price type contract sales.  

On a fixed-price type contract (revenue arrangement), we agree to perform the contractual statement of work for a predetermined sales price. Although a fixed-price type contract generally permits us to retain profits if the total actual contract costs are less than the estimated contract costs, we bear the risk that increased or unexpected costs may reduce our profit or cause us to sustain losses on the contract.  

24  

Table of Contents 

On a cost-plus type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid our allowable incurred costs plus a profit, which can be fixed or variable depending on the contract’s fee arrangement up to predetermined funding levels established by our customers. On a time-and-material type contract (revenue arrangement), we are paid on the basis of direct labor hours expended at specified fixed-price hourly rates (that include wages, overhead, allowable general and administrative expenses and profit) and materials at cost. Therefore, on cost-plus and time-and-material type contracts, we do not bear the risks of unexpected cost overruns, provided that we do not incur costs that exceed the predetermined funded amounts.  

Additionally, the impact of revisions in profit or loss estimates for all types of contracts subject to percentage of completion accounting are recognized on a cumulative catch-up basis in the period in which the revisions are made. Provisions for anticipated losses on contracts are recorded in the period in which they become evident. Amounts representing contract change orders or claims are included in sales only when they can be reliably estimated and their realization is reasonably assured. The revisions in contract estimates, if significant, can materially affect our results of operations and cash flows, as well as reduce the valuations of receivables and inventories; and in some cases, result in liabilities to complete contracts in a loss position.  

Pension expense and funding may fluctuate significantly because of changes in key estimates and assumptions, including discount rates and assumed long-term rate of return on assets, as well as our actual investment returns and regulatory actions, which could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  

Determining our pension expense requires significant judgment, particularly with respect to our discount rates, assumed long-term rate of return on assets and other actuarial assumptions. If our assumptions change significantly due to changes in economic, legislative, demographic experience and/or circumstances, our pension expense, the funded status of our plans and our cash contributions to such plans would be impacted, which could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, differences between our actual investment returns and our assumed long-term rate of return on assets could also impact our pension expense, the funded status of our plans and our required cash contributions to the plans. Further, our pension expense and the funded status of our plans, including required cash contributions to the Plans, may be impacted by regulatory actions in any given year.  

Additionally, pension plan cost recoveries under Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) for our U.S. Government contracts occur in different periods from when pension expense is recognized under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. or when cash contributions are made. Although CAS has been revised to better align the minimum required contributions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006, and pension plan cost recoveries under CAS, timing differences could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow.  

Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats and other disruptions.  

As a U.S. defense contractor, we face various security threats, including threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, cyber security attacks to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information as well as the proprietary or classified information of our customers. Although we utilize various procedures and controls to monitor, deter and mitigate these threats, these procedures and controls may not be sufficient to prevent disruptions in mission critical systems, the unauthorized release of confidential, sensitive or classified information and the corruption of data. Accordingly, any significant operational delays, or any destruction, manipulation or improper use of our data or of our customers, information systems or networks could adversely affect our financial results and damage the reputation for our products and services.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Our sales to certain international customers expose us to risks associated with operating internationally.  

For the year ended December 31, 2013, sales to international customers, excluding our international sales made under FMS agreements directly between the U.S. Government and allied international governments, represented approximately 17% of our consolidated sales. Consequently, our businesses are subject to a variety of risks that are specific to international operations, including the following:  

   •    export regulations that could erode profit margins or restrict exports;  

   •    compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar non-U.S. regulations;  

   •    the burden and cost of compliance with foreign laws, treaties and technical standards and changes in those regulations;  

   •    contract award and funding delays;  

   •    potential restrictions on transfers of funds;  

   •    currency fluctuations;  

   •    import and export duties and value added taxes;  

   •    transportation delays and interruptions;  

   •    uncertainties arising from international local business practices and cultural considerations; and  

   •    potential military conflicts and political risks.  

While we have and will continue to adopt measures to reduce the potential impact of losses resulting from the risks of our international business, we cannot ensure that such measures will be adequate.  

If we are unable to attract and retain key management and personnel, we may become unable to operate our business effectively.  

Our future success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management, and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and technical personnel, including employees who have U.S. Government security clearances, particularly clearances of top-secret and above. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies for members of our management. We face competition for management and technical personnel from other companies and organizations. Failure to attract and retain such personnel would damage our future prospects.  

Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability.  

Our operations are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local as well as certain foreign environmental laws and regulations within the countries in which we operate relating to the discharge, storage, treatment, handling, disposal and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes used in our operations.  

New laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new clean-up requirements may require us to incur a significant amount of additional costs in the future and could decrease the amount of cash flow available to us for other purposes, including capital expenditures, research and development and other investments and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and future prospects.  

Our business acquisition strategy involves risks, and we may not successfully implement our strategy.  

We opportunistically seek to acquire businesses that enhance our capabilities and add new technologies, products, services, programs, contracts, and customers to our existing businesses. We may not be able to  

26  

Table of Contents 

 continue to identify acquisition candidates on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we make additional business acquisitions, we may not realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions, including sales growth, cost synergies and improving margins. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain additional financing for business acquisitions, since such additional financing could be restricted or limited by the terms of our debt agreements or due to unfavorable capital market conditions.  

The process of integrating the operations of acquired businesses into our existing operations may result in unforeseen difficulties and may require significant financial and managerial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development or expansion of our existing operations. Possible future business acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional debt and related interest expense and contingent liabilities, each of which could result in an increase to our already significant level of outstanding debt, as well as more restrictive covenants.  

We consider and may enter into strategic business acquisitions on an ongoing basis and may be evaluating acquisitions or engaging in acquisition negotiations at any given time. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and joint venture transactions and have not entered into any agreements with respect to any material transactions at this time. Furthermore, in certain of our business acquisitions we have assumed all claims against and liabilities of the acquired business, including both asserted and unasserted claims and liabilities.  

Our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and Senior Notes restrict our ability to finance our future operations and, if we are unable to meet our financial ratios, could cause our existing debt to be accelerated.  

Our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility and Senior Notes contain certain significant covenants that, among other things, include, depending on the debt instrument, restrictions on our ability to:  

   •    sell assets;  

   •    incur more indebtedness;  

   •    create liens;  

   •    make certain investments or business acquisitions;  

   •    engage in business mergers or consolidations; and  

   •    engage in certain transactions with subsidiaries and affiliates.  

These restrictions could impair our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. In addition, our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility also requires us to maintain compliance with certain financial ratios, including (1) total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to total consolidated cash interest expense, (2) total consolidated funded indebtedness less designated cash balances to total consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and (3) consolidated senior indebtedness less designated cash balances to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Our ability to comply with these ratios and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these agreements or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or covenants could result in a default under those debt agreements. In the event of any such default, the lenders under those debt agreements could elect to declare all outstanding debt, accrued interest and fees to be due and immediately payable.  

For further discussion of our financial ratios, debt agreements and other payment restrictions, see Note 11 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

Our significant level of debt and our ability to make payments on or service our indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operating activities or our ability to incur additional debt.  

At December 31, 2013, we had approximately $3,639 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt and the availability of substantially all of our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility which  

27  

Table of Contents 

 expires on February 3, 2017. In the future, we may increase our borrowings, subject to any limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements. The first scheduled maturity of our existing debt is our $500 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.95% Senior Notes maturing November 15, 2016. See “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Debt” and Note 11 to our audited consolidated financial statements.  

Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to refinance our existing debt depends on our future financial performance as well as our ability to access the capital markets, and the relative attractiveness of available financing terms. We do not have complete control over our future financial performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial (including credit market conditions), competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the aerospace and defense industry, as well as commercial industries in which we operate. It is possible that in the future our businesses may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If this situation occurs, we may have to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, restructure debt or obtain additional equity capital. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms in accordance with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us. These consequences may include:  

   •    requiring a substantial portion of our net cash flow from operations to be used to pay interest and principal on our debt and therefore be unavailable for other purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, paying dividends to our shareholders, repurchasing shares of our common stock, research and development and other investments;  

   •    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments or other expenditures, which, in each case, may limit our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy;  

   •    increasing interest expense due to higher interest rates on our Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Facility as it has a variable interest rate;  

   •    heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in the general economy and restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies and products or exploiting business opportunities; and  

   •    impacting debt covenants that limit our ability to borrow additional funds or dispose of assets. Failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our outstanding indebtedness.  

Additionally, on December 31, 2013, we had $8,181 million of contractual obligations (including outstanding indebtedness). For a detailed listing of the components of our contractual obligations, see “Part II — Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Contractual Obligations.”  

The Company’s spin-off of Engility could result in substantial tax liability to the Company and its shareholders.  

We received an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Ruling stating that L-3 and its shareholders would not recognize any taxable income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the spin-off of Engility. In addition, we received an opinion of counsel that the spin-off satisfies certain requirements for tax-free treatment that are not covered in the IRS Ruling; however, an opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS. Accordingly, the IRS or the courts may reach conclusions with respect to the spin-off that are different from the conclusions reached in the opinion of counsel. Moreover, both the IRS Ruling and the opinion of counsel are based on certain factual statements and representations made by us, which, if incomplete or untrue in any material respect, could invalidate the IRS Ruling or opinion of counsel.  

If, notwithstanding receipt of the IRS Ruling and opinion of counsel, the spin-off and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, then we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. In addition, if  

28  

Table of Contents 

 the spin-off were taxable, each holder of our common stock who receives shares of Engility would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Engility received.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

None.  

29  

Table of Contents 

Item 2. Properties