PART I

Item 1. Business.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Founded in 1901 as a retail shoe business in Seattle, Nordstrom later incorporated in Washington State in 1946 and went on to become one of the leading fashion specialty retailers based in the U.S. We operate 262 U.S. stores located in 35 states as of March 17, 2014, as well as a robust e-commerce business through Nordstrom.com and HauteLook. The west and east coasts of the United States are the areas in which we have the largest presence. We have two reportable segments: Retail and Credit.

As of March 17, 2014, the Retail segment includes our 117 “Nordstrom” branded full-line stores and online store at Nordstrom.com (“Direct”), 142 off-price “Nordstrom Rack” stores, one clearance store that operates under the name “Last Chance” and other retail channels including our online private sale subsidiary “HauteLook” and our two “Jeffrey” boutiques. Through these multiple retail channels, we strive to deliver the best customer experience possible. We offer a wide selection of high-quality brand name and private label merchandise focused on apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories. Our integrated Nordstrom full-line stores and online store allow us to provide our customers with a seamless shopping experience. In-store purchases are primarily fulfilled from that store’s inventory, but when inventory is unavailable at that store it may also be shipped to our customers from our fulfillment center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, or from other Nordstrom full-line stores. Online purchases are primarily shipped to our customers from our Cedar Rapids fulfillment center, but may also be shipped from our Nordstrom full-line stores. Our customers can also pick up online orders in our Nordstrom full-line stores if inventory is available at one of our locations. These capabilities allow us to better serve customers across various channels and improve sales. Nordstrom Rack stores purchase high-quality brand name merchandise primarily from the same vendors carried in Nordstrom full-line stores and also serve as outlets for clearance merchandise from our Nordstrom stores. Our online private sale retailer, HauteLook, offers limited time sale events on fashion and lifestyle brands, as well as a persistent selection of off-price high-quality brand name merchandise.

Our Credit segment includes our wholly owned federal savings bank, Nordstrom fsb, through which we provide a private label credit card, two Nordstrom VISA credit cards and a debit card. The credit and debit cards feature a shopping-based loyalty program designed to increase customer visits and spending. Although the primary purposes of our Credit business are to foster greater customer loyalty and drive more sales, we also generate revenues from finance charges and other fees on these cards and save on interchange fees that the Retail Segment would incur if our customers used third-party cards.

For more information about our business and our reportable segments, see Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 16: Segment Reporting in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

FISCAL YEAR

We operate on a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday closest to January 31st. References to 2013 and all years except 2012 within this document are based on a 52-week fiscal year, while 2012 is based on a 53-week fiscal year.

TRADEMARKS

We have 152 trademarks, each of which is the subject of one or more trademark registrations and/or trademark applications. Our most notable trademarks include Nordstrom, Nordstrom Rack, HauteLook, Halogen, BP. and Zella. Each of our trademarks is renewable indefinitely, provided that it is still used in commerce at the time of the renewal.

RETURN POLICY

We have a liberal approach to returns as part of our objective to provide high-quality customer service. We do not have a formal return policy at our Nordstrom full-line stores or online at Nordstrom.com. Our goal is to take care of our customers, which includes making returns and exchanges easy, whether in stores or online, where we offer free shipping and free returns. Our Nordstrom Rack stores generally accept returns up to 90 days from the date of purchase with the original price tag and sales receipt, and also accept returns of HauteLook merchandise. HauteLook generally accepts returns of apparel, footwear and accessories within 30 days from the date of shipment.

SEASONALITY

Due to our Anniversary Sale in July, the holidays in December and the Half-Yearly sales that normally occur in the second and fourth quarters, our sales are typically higher in the second and fourth quarters of the fiscal year than in the first and third quarters. In 2013, our Anniversary Sale took place in the second quarter, while in 2012 it occurred during both the second and third quarters.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

We operate in a highly competitive business environment. We compete with other national, regional and local retailers that may carry similar lines of merchandise, including department stores, specialty stores, off-price stores, boutiques and Internet businesses. Our specific competitors vary from market to market. We believe the keys to competing in our industry are providing great customer service and customer experiences in store and online, which includes compelling price and value, fashion newness, quality of products, selection, convenience, technology, product fulfillment, personalization and appealing and relevant store environments in top locations.

4
INVENTORY

We plan our merchandise purchases and receipts to coincide with expected sales trends. For instance, our merchandise purchases and receipts increase prior to our Anniversary Sale, which has historically extended over the last two weeks of July. We also purchase and receive a larger amount of merchandise in the fall as we prepare for the holiday shopping season (from late November through December). Beginning in 2012, we increased our investment in pack and hold inventory at Nordstrom Rack, which involves the acquisition of merchandise from some of our full-line stores’ top brands in advance of the upcoming selling seasons to take advantage of strategic buying opportunities. This inventory is typically held for six months on average and has contributed to the growth in our Nordstrom Rack business. We pay for our merchandise purchases under the terms established with our vendors.

In order to offer merchandise that our customers want, we purchase from a wide variety of high-quality suppliers, including domestic and foreign businesses. We also have arrangements with agents and contract manufacturers to produce our private label merchandise. We expect our suppliers to meet our “Nordstrom Partnership Guidelines,” which address our corporate social responsibility standards for matters such as legal and regulatory compliance, labor, health and safety and the environment, and are available on our website at Nordstrom.com.

EMPLOYEES

During 2013, we employed approximately 62,500 employees on a full- or part-time basis. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, employment increased to approximately 64,500 employees in July 2013 and 66,000 in December 2013. Almost all of our employees are non-union. We believe our relationship with our employees is good.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain or may suggest “forward-looking” information (as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, anticipated financial outlook for the fiscal year ending January 31, 2015, anticipated annual same-store sales rate, anticipated Return on Invested Capital and trends in our operations. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company’s management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual future results may differ materially from historical results or current expectations depending upon factors including, but not limited to:

•successful execution of our customer strategy, including expansion into new markets, acquisitions, investments in our stores and online, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from growth initiatives, and the timely completion of construction associated with newly planned stores, relocations and remodels, all of which may be impacted by the financial health of third parties,

•our ability to manage the transformation of our business/financial model as we increase our investments in growth opportunities, including our online business and our ability to manage related organizational changes, 

•our ability to maintain relationships with our employees and to effectively attract, develop and retain our future leaders,

•effective inventory management, disruptions in our supply chain and our ability to control costs,

•the impact of any systems failures, cybersecurity and/or security breaches, including any security breach of our systems or those of a third-party provider that results in the theft, transfer or unauthorized disclosure of customer, employee or company information or compliance with information security and privacy laws and regulations in the event of such an incident,

•successful execution of our information technology strategy,

•our ability to effectively utilize data in strategic planning and decision-making, 

•efficient and proper allocation of our capital resources,

•our ability to safeguard our reputation and maintain our vendor relationships,

•the impact of economic and market conditions and the resultant impact on consumer spending patterns,

•our ability to respond to the business environment, fashion trends and consumer preferences, including changing expectations of service and experience in stores and online,

•the effectiveness of planned advertising, marketing and promotional campaigns in the highly competitive retail industry,

•weather conditions, natural disasters, health hazards, national security or other market disruptions, or the prospects of these events and the impact on consumer spending patterns,

•our compliance with applicable banking-related laws and regulations impacting our ability to extend credit to our customers, employment laws and regulations, certain international laws and regulations, other laws and regulations applicable to us, including the outcome of claims and litigation and resolution of tax matters, and ethical standards,

•impact of the current regulatory environment and financial system and health care reforms,

•compliance with debt covenants, availability and cost of credit, changes in interest rates, and trends in debt repayment patterns, personal bankruptcies and bad debt write-offs, and

•the timing and amounts of share repurchases by the company, if any, or any share issuances by the company, including issuances associated with option exercises or other matters.

These and other factors, including those factors described in Item 1A: Risk Factors, could affect our financial results and cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking information we may provide. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events, new information or future circumstances.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  5
SEC FILINGS

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All material we file with the SEC is publicly available at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

WEBSITE ACCESS

Our website address is Nordstrom.com. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q (including related filings in eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”) format), current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, statements of changes in beneficial ownership of securities on Form 4 and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the report with or furnish it to the SEC. Interested parties may also access a webcast of quarterly earnings conference calls and other financial events through our website.

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

We have a long-standing commitment to upholding a high level of ethical standards. In addition, as required by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) and the rules of the SEC, we have adopted Codes of Business Conduct and Ethics for our employees, officers and directors (“Codes of Ethics”) and Corporate Governance Guidelines. Our Codes of Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Governance and Nominating, Finance and Technology Committees are posted on our website. Any amendments to these documents, or waivers of the requirements they contain, will also be available on our website.

For printed versions of these items or any other inquiries, please use the following contact information:

Nordstrom Investor Relations

PO Box 2737

Seattle, Washington 98111

(206) 233-6564

invrelations@nordstrom.com

Item 1A. Risk Factors.