Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Dollar, share and square footage amounts in millions except percentages, per share and per square foot amounts

OVERVIEW

Nordstrom is a leading fashion specialty retailer offering high-quality apparel, shoes, cosmetics and accessories for women, men and children. We offer a wide selection of brand name and private label merchandise through our various channels: “Nordstrom” branded full-line stores and online store at Nordstrom.com, “Nordstrom Rack” off-price stores, “Last Chance” clearance store, “HauteLook” online private sale website and our “Jeffrey” boutiques. Our stores are located in 35 states throughout the United States. In addition, we offer our customers a loyalty program along with a variety of payment products and services, including credit and debit cards.

We achieved several milestones in 2013 with a record high in sales, earnings per diluted share, and cash flow from operations. This marked the fifth consecutive year we generated over one billion dollars in cash flow from operations. Additionally, we generated a Return on Invested Capital of 13.6% while increasing our capital investments by over 50%. Our performance in 2013 reflected our continued progress in executing our customer strategy through investments to drive growth across channels, while maintaining our operating discipline around inventory and expenses. With advancements in technology and specifically in e-commerce, the pace of change is accelerating and redefining the customer experience across all channels. We believe there is tremendous value in having a platform for the customer experience that encompasses full-price and off-price, in-store and online. While each of these channels represents a substantial individual opportunity, there is significant potential for synergies between them to create a unique customer experience across channels to gain market share. 

Our Direct business continues to be our fastest-growing customer channel. Direct finished its third consecutive year of approximately 30% or more of same-store sales growth, with a key driver being increased merchandise selection. We also increased our speed of fulfillment and delivery, opened a fulfillment center in San Bernardino and announced plans to open an east coast fulfillment center in 2015 to enable greater customer service. 

We are on track to serve more customers through Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion, with plans to reach approximately 230 stores by 2016, from 140 stores today. Nordstrom Rack net sales increased 12%, driven by 22 new stores, and same-store sales increased 2.7%. Nordstrom Rack sales productivity remains strong at approximately $550 per square foot. Additionally, Rack stores can now accept HauteLook merchandise returns, adding convenience for our customers while driving incremental traffic to our Racks and further integrating the customer experience across channels. 

While Nordstrom full-line sales trends were softer than anticipated, we have ongoing initiatives around product, service, and the store environment to elevate the customer experience. Our relocated Glendale, California store incorporated new design concepts that reflect our customers’ desire for stores that are easier to shop, and we plan to incorporate new designs in future renovations and store openings to continue meeting our customers changing expectations. We also enhanced our relevance with existing and new customers, demonstrated in part by our Women’s Apparel business, which was one of our top-performing merchandise categories for the year. We have attracted newer and younger customers with our repositioned Savvy department to offer on-trend fashion at accessible price points and our expanded partnership with Topshop, an internationally renowned trend-leading brand. We expanded Topshop merchandise to 41 full-line stores this year, from 14 at the start of the year. 

Our credit business also plays an important role in reaching new customers and strengthening existing customer relationships through our Nordstrom Rewards™ program, payment products and our ability to serve customers directly through our wholly owned credit services. The Nordstrom Rewards program contributes to our overall results, with members shopping more frequently and spending more on average than non-members. For the second consecutive year, we opened over one million new accounts. With 3.8 million active members, 2013 sales from members represented 38% of sales, increasing from 36% in 2012. Our overall credit card portfolio also remains healthy, with delinquency and write-off trends continuing to improve. 

We continue to believe strongly in our customer-centric strategy. To improve the customer experience, we continue to make investments in our stores, online and in new markets such as Canada and Manhattan. As a result of our planned growth across all of our channels, our business model continues to evolve to encompass these multiple channels in their various stages of growth. We project that these investments in our customer strategy will help us achieve long-term top-quartile shareholder returns through high single-digit total sales growth and mid-teens Return on Invested Capital.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  15
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Our reportable segments are Retail and Credit. Our Retail segment includes our Nordstrom branded full-line stores and online store, Nordstrom Rack stores, Last Chance clearance store and other retail channels, including HauteLook and Jeffrey stores. For purposes of discussion and analysis of our results of operations, we combine our Retail segment results with revenues and expenses in the “Corporate/Other” column of our segment reporting footnote, which also includes our Canadian operations (collectively, the “Retail Business”). We analyze our results of operations through earnings before interest and income taxes for our Retail Business and Credit, while interest expense and income taxes are discussed on a total company basis.

Similar to many other retailers, Nordstrom follows the retail 4-5-4 reporting calendar, which included an extra week in the fourth quarter of 2012 (the “53rd week”). The analysis of our results of operations, liquidity and capital resources compares the 52 weeks in 2013 to the 53 weeks in 2012. However, the 53rd week is not included in same-store sales calculations. In 2012, the 53rd week contributed approximately $0.04 to earnings per diluted share.

As discussed in Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 16: Segment Reporting in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, beginning in the first quarter of 2013, we reclassified amounts in our financial statements to better reflect the way we view and measure our business. As we continue to execute our long-term growth strategy and make investments across operating segments, aligning expenses with the associated benefits enhances our ability to evaluate segment performance. Historical results were also reclassified to match the current period presentation. These reclassifications did not impact net earnings, earnings per share, financial position or cash flows.

We now allocate Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program expenses to our Retail Business. We previously recorded all Nordstrom Rewards expenses in our Credit segment. In addition, certain technology expenses we previously included in our Retail Business are now allocated to our Credit segment. These changes within our Retail Business and Credit segment did not impact the presentation of expenses in our consolidated financial statements. In our Credit segment, we previously presented bad debt expense associated with finance charges and fees as part of selling, general and administrative expenses. We reclassified these amounts and now present them as a reduction of credit card revenue.

Retail Business

Summary

The following table summarizes the results of our Retail Business for the past three years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding. 

16
Retail Business Net Sales

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Same-store sales include sales from stores that have been open at least one full year at the beginning of the year. Fiscal year 2012 includes an extra week (the 53rd week) in the fourth quarter as a result of our 4-5-4 retail reporting calendar. The 53rd week is not included in same-store sales calculations. We also include sales from our Nordstrom online store in same-store sales because of the integration of our Nordstrom full-line stores and online store as well as HauteLook beginning in 2013.

2 Sales per square foot is calculated as net sales divided by weighted-average square footage. Weighted-average square footage includes a percentage of year-end square footage for new stores equal to the percentage of the year during which they were open. 4-wall sales per square foot is calculated as sales for Nordstrom full-line, Nordstrom Rack and Jeffrey stores divided by their weighted-average square footage.

NET SALES – 2013 VS 2012 

Our total net sales increase of 3.4% for 2013 was attributable to the same-store sales increase of 2.5%, driven by growth in our Direct channel and Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. During the year, we opened 22 new Nordstrom Rack stores and relocated one Nordstrom full-line store and two Nordstrom Rack stores. These additions increased our square footage by 2.9% and represented 1.6% of our total net sales for 2013. The 53rd week in 2012 contributed approximately $162 in additional net sales.

Nordstrom net sales, which consist of the full-line and Direct businesses, were $9,327 in 2013, an increase of 1.0% compared with 2012, with same-store sales up 2.3%. Strong growth in our Direct channel was partially offset by sales decreases at our full-line stores. Both the average selling price and number of items sold increased on a same-store basis in 2013 compared with 2012. Category highlights included Cosmetics, Men’s Shoes and Women’s Apparel.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  17
Full-line net sales for 2013 were $7,705, a decrease of 3.3% compared with 2012, while sales per square foot decreased 3.4%. Both were primarily driven by a same-store sales decrease of 2.1%. The top-performing geographic regions for full-line stores for 2013 were the Southwest and Southeast. The Direct channel continued to show strong sales growth with net sales of $1,622, an increase of 28% compared with 2012, with same-store sales up 30% on a comparable 52-week basis. These increases were driven by expanded merchandise selection and ongoing technology investments to enhance the customer experience.

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $2,738, an increase of 12.0% compared with 2012 primarily due to 37 new store openings in the last two years. Same-store sales increased 2.7% for the year. Sales per square foot decreased 2.6% for the year as a result of the 53rd week in 2012, as well as the growth in new stores that typically take several years to reach the overall average of our mature stores. Cosmetics and Shoes were the strongest-performing categories for the year. Both the average selling price and the number of items sold on a same-store basis increased in 2013 compared with 2012.

NET SALES – 2012 VS 2011 

Net sales for 2012 increased 12.1% compared with 2011, driven by a same-store sales increase of 7.3% and strong performances across all channels. During 2012, we opened one Nordstrom full-line store, 15 Nordstrom Rack stores and relocated three Nordstrom Rack stores. These additions represented 1.5% of our total net sales for 2012, and increased our square footage by 2.2%. The 53rd week contributed approximately $162 in additional net sales.

Nordstrom net sales for 2012 were $9,233, an increase of 9.6% compared with 2011, with same-store sales up 7.5%. Our sales growth was due in large part to the ongoing, consistent strength of our business both in store and online. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price increased on a same-store basis in 2012 compared with 2011. Category highlights included Handbags, Men’s Shoes, Men’s Apparel and Cosmetics. 

Full-line net sales for 2012 were $7,964, an increase of 6.0% compared with 2011, while sales per square foot increased 5.5%. Same-store sales increased 3.9% for the year. The top-performing geographic regions for full-line stores for 2012 were the South and Midwest. The Direct channel showed strong sales growth with net sales of $1,269, an increase of 39% compared with 2011, with same-store sales up 37% on a comparable 52-week basis.

Nordstrom Rack net sales were $2,445, up 20% compared with 2011, while sales per square foot increased 4.2%. Same-store sales increased 7.4% for the year. Men’s Apparel, Shoes and Women’s Apparel were the strongest-performing categories for the year. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price increased on a same-store basis in 2012 compared with 2011.

Retail Business Gross Profit

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Retailers do not uniformly record the costs of buying and occupancy and supply chain operations (freight, purchasing, receiving, distribution, etc.) between gross profit and selling, general and administrative expense. As such, our gross profit and selling, general and administrative expenses and rates may not be comparable to other retailers’ expenses and rates.

2 Inventory turnover rate is calculated as annual cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments) divided by 4-quarter average inventory.

GROSS PROFIT – 2013 VS 2012 

Our gross profit rate decreased 41 basis points compared with 2012 primarily due to higher expenses associated with the growth in the Nordstrom Rewards customer loyalty program and higher occupancy costs related to our Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. The Nordstrom Rewards loyalty program continues to play an important role in reaching new customers and strengthening existing customer relationships. The growth in Nordstrom Rack stores resulted in a higher occupancy expense as sales volume at new stores typically take several years to reach the average of our mature stores and also have substantial pre-opening costs. Retail gross profit increased $99 in 2013 compared with 2012 due to an increase in net sales at Direct and Nordstrom Rack. This was partially offset by a decrease in full-line net sales and increased occupancy costs related to Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. 

18
Our inventory turnover rate decreased to 5.07 times in 2013, from 5.37 times in 2012. This was primarily due to our increased investment in pack and hold inventory at Nordstrom Rack, which helped fuel the growth in that channel. We began increasing our pack and hold inventory investment in 2012, which involves the acquisition of merchandise from some of our top brands in advance of the upcoming selling seasons in order to take advantage of strategic buying opportunities. We hold this inventory in our warehouses for six months on average until the next selling season and it represented approximately 11%, 9% and 3% of our total inventory at the end of 2013, 2012 and 2011. On a per square foot basis, we ended the year with a 9.4% increase in our ending inventory on a 0.8% increase in sales compared with 2012. The increase in ending inventory per square foot relative to the increase in sales per square foot was primarily due to the impact of the 53rd week in 2012, which decreased inventory levels in our full-line stores and included an additional week of sales in 2012. In 2013, we also planned inventory increases in full-line stores to fuel growth in well-performing merchandise categories and increased our pack and hold inventory at Nordstrom Rack.

GROSS PROFIT – 2012 VS 2011 

Our retail gross profit rate decreased 38 basis points compared with 2011 primarily due to accelerated Nordstrom Rack growth and higher expenses associated with the growth in the Nordstrom Rewards program. Retail gross profit increased $426 in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to our strong sales performance, partially offset by increases in occupancy costs for our investments in new stores and remodeling of existing stores. 

Retail Business Selling, General and Administrative Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2013 VS 2012 

Our Retail selling, general and administrative expenses (“Retail SG&A”) rate decreased 8 basis points in 2013 compared with 2012 due to expense leverage from increased sales volume. Our Retail SG&A increased $100 in 2013 compared with 2012 due primarily to growth-related investments in our e-commerce business, Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion and our planned entry into Canada. The increase also reflected expenses associated with higher sales volume and the opening of 22 new Nordstrom Rack stores in 2013.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES – 2012 VS 2011 

Our Retail SG&A rate increased 23 basis points in 2012 compared with 2011 due to the investments we made to improve the customer experience across all channels and specifically in our e-commerce business as we expanded our capabilities and increased the speed of fulfillment and delivery. This was partially offset by leverage on increased sales. Our Retail SG&A expenses increased $364 in 2012 compared with 2011 due to the increased investments, higher sales volume and opening 16 stores in 2012.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  19
Credit Segment

The Nordstrom credit and debit card products are designed to strengthen customer relationships and grow retail sales by providing loyalty benefits, valuable services and payment products. We believe our credit business allows us to build deeper relationships with our customers by fully integrating our rewards program with our retail stores and providing better service, which in turn fosters greater customer loyalty. Our cardholders tend to visit our stores more frequently and spend more with us than non-cardholders. Our Nordstrom private label credit and debit cards can be used only at our Nordstrom full-line stores, Nordstrom Rack stores and online at Nordstrom.com (“inside volume”), while our Nordstrom VISA cards also may be used for purchases outside of Nordstrom (“outside volume”). Cardholders participate in the Nordstrom Rewards program through which cardholders accumulate points for their purchases. Upon reaching a certain points threshold, cardholders receive Nordstrom Notes®, which can be redeemed for goods or services at Nordstrom full-line stores, Nordstrom Rack and online at Nordstrom.com. Nordstrom Rewards customers receive reimbursement for alterations, get Personal Triple Points days and have early access to sales events. With increased spending, they can receive additional amounts of these benefits as well as access to exclusive fashion and shopping events.

The table below provides a detailed view of the operational results of our Credit segment, consistent with the segment disclosure provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In order to better reflect the economic contribution of our credit and debit card program, intercompany merchant fees are also included in the table below, which represents the estimated costs that would be incurred if our cardholders used third-party cards instead of ours.

Interest expense at the Credit segment is equal to the amount of interest related to securitized debt plus an amount assigned to the Credit segment in proportion to the estimated debt and equity needed to fund our credit card receivables. Based on our research, debt as a percentage of credit card receivables for other credit card companies ranges from 70% to 90%. As such, we believe a mix of 80% debt and 20% equity is appropriate, and therefore assign interest expense to the Credit segment as if it carried debt of up to 80% of the credit card receivables. Our average credit card receivable investment metric below represents the remaining 20% to fund our credit card receivables.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Subtotals and totals may not foot due to rounding. 

2 Volume represents sales plus applicable taxes.

3 Credit segment contribution, net of tax, calculated as a percentage of our average credit card receivable investment.

20
Credit Card Revenues

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit card revenues include finance charges, interchange fees, late fees and other revenue. Finance charges represent interest earned on unpaid balances while interchange fees are earned from the use of Nordstrom VISA credit cards at merchants outside of Nordstrom. Late fees are assessed when a credit card account becomes past due. We consider an account delinquent if the minimum payment is not received by the payment due date. Credit card revenues are recorded net of estimated uncollectible finance charges and fees. 

CREDIT CARD REVENUES – 2013 VS 2012 

Credit card revenues were flat compared with 2012. This was due to growth in total volume that was offset by continued improvements in cardholder payment rates. 

CREDIT CARD REVENUES – 2012 VS 2011 

Credit card revenues increased $9 in 2012 compared with 2011 primarily due to an extra week (the 53rd week) of revenue in 2012 as a result of our 4-5-4 retail reporting calendar. The increase was also due to growth in total volume that was offset by continued improvements in cardholder payment rates. Our average credit card receivable balance in 2012 was $2,076, a decrease of $29, or 1.4%, from 2011.

Credit Expenses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CREDIT EXPENSES – 2013 VS 2012 

Total Credit expenses decreased $4 in 2013 compared with 2012, due to lower operational and marketing expenses resulting primarily from the conversion of our Nordstrom Rewards travel benefit into Nordstrom Notes during 2013. Bad debt expense was lower in 2012 due to the $30 reduction of our allowance for credit losses in 2012 compared to a $5 reduction in 2013. We experienced continued improvement in our portfolio delinquencies and write-off results during 2013, which are further discussed below. 

CREDIT EXPENSES – 2012 VS 2011 

Total Credit expenses decreased $25 in 2012 compared with 2011, primarily due to lower bad debt expense, partially offset by higher operational expenses. The decrease in bad debt expense reflected continued improvement in our portfolio and overall economic trends. Operational and marketing expenses increased primarily due to increased account acquisition expenses.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  21
Allowance for Credit Losses and Credit Trends

The following table illustrates activity in the allowance for credit losses:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CREDIT TRENDS

During 2013, our delinquency and net write-off results continued to improve. Net write-offs in 2013 were $57, compared with $72 in 2012 and $114 in 2011. As delinquencies and net write-offs improved in both 2013 and 2012, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $5 in 2013 and $30 in 2012.

CREDIT QUALITY

The quality of our credit card receivables at any time reflects, among other factors, general economic conditions, the creditworthiness of our cardholders and the success of our account management and collection activities. In general, credit quality tends to decline, and the risk of credit losses tends to increase, during periods of deteriorating economic conditions. Through our underwriting and risk management standards and practices, we seek to maintain a high-quality cardholder portfolio, thereby mitigating our exposure to credit losses. As of February 1, 2014, 78.1% of our credit card receivables were from cardholders with FICO scores of 660 or above (generally considered “prime” according to industry standards) compared with 78.3% as of February 2, 2013. See Note 3: Accounts Receivable in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information.

Intercompany Merchant Fees

Intercompany merchant fees represent the estimated costs that would be incurred if our cardholders used third-party cards in our Nordstrom stores and online. In 2013, this estimate increased to $97 or 4.6% of average credit card receivables from $89 or 4.3% in 2012. This was primarily driven by the increased use of our credit and debit cards in store and online, as reflected by an increase in inside volume as a percent of total volume from 51.0% in 2012 to 53.6% in 2013.

Total Company Results

Interest Expense, Net

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET – 2013 VS 2012 

Interest expense, net increased $1 in 2013 compared with 2012 due to $14 in non-recurring charges related to the debt refinancing, partially offset by an increase in capitalized interest resulting primarily from planned capital investments related to our Manhattan store and accelerated Nordstrom Rack growth. See further discussion of our debt retirement and exchange transaction at Note 8: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 

INTEREST EXPENSE, NET – 2012 VS 2011 

Interest expense, net increased $30 in 2012 compared with 2011 due to higher average interest rates and higher average debt balances.

22
Income Tax Expense

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table illustrates the components of our effective tax rate for 2013, 2012 and 2011:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

INCOME TAX EXPENSE – 2013 VS 2012 

The increase in the effective tax rate for 2013 compared with 2012 was primarily due to changes in our estimated state tax reserves.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE – 2012 VS 2011 

The decrease in the effective tax rate for 2012 compared with 2011 was primarily due to the impact of non-taxable HauteLook acquisition-related expenses in 2011, including a goodwill impairment.

Fourth Quarter Results

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Nordstrom’s fourth quarter performance reflected the trends we saw throughout the year. We continued to make progress executing our customer strategy through investments to drive growth across channels, while maintaining disciplined execution around inventory and expenses. Net earnings for the fourth quarter of 2013 were $268, or $1.37 per diluted share, compared with $284, or $1.40 per diluted share, in 2012. Earnings per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2013 included $0.04 per diluted share of non-recurring expenses related to our debt refinancing. Additionally, the 53rd week in 2012 contributed approximately $0.04 to earnings per diluted share.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  23
NET SALES

Total net sales increased in the fourth quarter by 0.5% driven by a same-store sales increase of 2.6%, and partially offset by the impact of the 53rd week, which contributed approximately $162 in additional net sales in 2012.

Nordstrom net sales, which consist of the full-line and Direct businesses, for the fourth quarter of 2013 decreased $50, or 1.7% compared with the same period in 2012, while same-store sales increased 2.2%. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price of our merchandise on a same-store basis increased for the fourth quarter of 2013, compared with the same period last year. Category highlights for the quarter were Cosmetics, Accessories and Men's Shoes. Momentum continued in Women’s Apparel, which outperformed the Nordstrom average for the quarter.

Full-line net sales for the quarter decreased $171, or 7.1% compared with the same period in 2012, with a decrease in same-store sales of 3.3%. The top-performing geographic regions for full-line stores for the quarter were the Southwest and Southeast. Direct net sales increased $121 in the fourth quarter compared with the same period last year, while same-store sales increased 30% on top of last year’s 31% increase for the same period, driven by expanded merchandise selection and ongoing technology investments to enhance the customer experience.

Nordstrom Rack net sales for the quarter increased $71, or 10.2%, reflecting 22 new Nordstrom Rack store openings in 2013, while same-store sales increased 3.6% compared with the fourth quarter of 2012. Both the number of items sold and the average selling price of Nordstrom Rack merchandise on a same-store basis increased for the quarter, compared with the same period in the prior year. Accessories, Cosmetics and Shoes were the category highlights for Nordstrom Rack.

GROSS PROFIT

Our total company gross profit rate decreased 55 basis points compared with the same period in the prior year, primarily due to heightened promotional activity during the holidays and higher occupancy costs related to Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. Sales per square foot decreased 2.4% compared with the same period in fiscal 2012, but increased 2.2% when excluding last year’s 53rd week. Ending inventory per square foot increased 9.4% compared with the same period in fiscal 2012, outpacing the adjusted increase in sales per square foot. This was primarily attributable to the planned investment in pack and hold inventory at Nordstrom Rack, which represented 11% of total inventory at the end of fiscal 2013, compared with 9% in fiscal 2012. The increase also reflected planned inventory increases in full-line stores to fuel growth in well-performing merchandise categories.

RETAIL SELLING, GENERAL & ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Our Retail SG&A rate decreased 8 basis points primarily due to lower selling expenses, partially offset by growth-related investments for the planned entry into Canada and for Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion. Selling, general and administrative expenses for our Retail Business increased $1 compared with last year’s fourth quarter. The increase was primarily attributable to higher fulfillment costs, partially offset by lower selling expenses and an additional week of expenses in 2012 due to the 53rd week. 

CREDIT EXPENSES

In the fourth quarter, expenses for our Credit segment of $38 decreased from $46 in the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by lower operational and marketing expenses from the conversion of our Nordstrom Rewards travel benefit into Nordstrom Notes during the fourth quarter of 2013.

For further information on our quarterly results in 2013 and 2012, refer to Note 17: Selected Quarterly Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

24
2014 Outlook

Our expectations for 2014 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Gross profit is calculated as net sales less cost of sales and related buying and occupancy costs (for all segments).

2 This outlook does not include the impact of any future share repurchases.

Capital expenditures, net of property incentives, of $840 to $880 million are expected in 2014, an increase from $714 in 2013. The majority of the increase represents investments to fuel online and Nordstrom Rack store growth in addition to our planned entry into Canada. To date in 2014, we have opened two Nordstrom Rack stores. We plan to open 27 Nordstrom Rack stores and three Nordstrom full-line stores in total during 2014. In February 2014, we announced our plans to close our full-line stores in Vancouver, Washington, and in Portland, Oregon, at the Lloyd Center, in January 2015. The planned net store openings are expected to increase our retail square footage by approximately 4.4%.

We expect our planned entry into Canada to decrease earnings primarily due to ongoing infrastructure and pre-opening expenses. The estimated loss before interest and taxes for Canada is expected to be approximately $35 in 2014, compared with a loss before interest and taxes of $14 in 2013. This guidance also incorporates Nordstrom Rack’s accelerated store expansion and increased technology investments to improve service and experience across all channels. These expenses are expected to contribute to our overall increase in depreciation and rent expense of 14% compared with 2013.

Interest expense, net is expected to decrease primarily due to a one-time charge of $14 related to the debt refinancing transaction in 2013. 

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  25
Return on Invested Capital (“ROIC”) (Non-GAAP financial measure)

We believe that ROIC is a useful financial measure for investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of capital and believe ROIC is an important component of shareholders’ return over the long term. In addition, we incorporate ROIC in our executive incentive compensation measures. For the 12 fiscal months ended February 1, 2014, our ROIC decreased to 13.6% compared with 13.9% for the 12 fiscal months ended February 2, 2013. Our ROIC decreased compared with the prior year primarily due to an increase in our invested capital as a result of expansion into Manhattan and accelerated Nordstrom Rack store growth.

ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, return on assets, net earnings, total assets or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to ROIC is return on assets. The following is a reconciliation of the components of ROIC and return on assets:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 Capitalized operating leases is our best estimate of the asset base we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we had purchased the property. Asset base is calculated as described in footnote 5 below.

2 Based upon our effective tax rate multiplied by the net operating profit for the 12 fiscal months ended February 1, 2014, February 2, 2013, January 28, 2012, January 29, 2011 and January 30, 2010.

3 Based upon the trailing 12-month average.

4 Based upon the trailing 12-month average for accounts payable, accrued salaries, wages and related benefits, and other current liabilities.

5 Based upon the trailing 12-month average of the monthly asset base. The asset base for each month is calculated as the trailing 12-months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the asset base we would record for our capitalized operating leases described in footnote 1.

26
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

We strive to maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to cover our seasonal cash needs and to maintain appropriate levels of short-term borrowings. We believe that our operating cash flows, available credit facilities and potential future borrowings are sufficient to finance our cash requirements for the next 12 months and beyond.

Over the long term, we manage our cash and capital structure to maximize shareholder return, maintain our financial position, manage refinancing risk and allow flexibility for strategic initiatives. We regularly assess our debt and leverage levels, capital expenditure requirements, debt service payments, dividend payouts, potential share repurchases and other future investments. We believe that as of February 1, 2014, our existing cash and cash equivalents on-hand of $1,194, available credit facilities of $800 and potential future operating cash flows and borrowings will be sufficient to fund these scheduled future payments and potential long-term initiatives.

Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,320 in 2013 and $1,110 in 2012. The majority of our operating cash inflows are derived from sales. We also receive cash payments for property incentives from developers. Our operating cash outflows generally consist of payments to our merchandise vendors (net of vendor allowances), payments to our employees for wages, salaries and other employee benefits and payments to our landlords for rent. Operating cash outflows also include payments for income taxes and interest payments on our short-term and long-term borrowings.

Cash provided by operating activities increased in 2013 compared with 2012, resulting from less state tax payments made in 2013 due to additional payments made in 2012 as a result of the 53rd week, along with increased property incentives received from developers and changes in working capital.

Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities was $822 in 2013 and $369 in 2012. Our investing cash flows primarily consist of capital expenditures, changes in restricted cash accumulated for debt maturities and changes in credit card receivables associated with cardholder purchases outside of Nordstrom using our Nordstrom VISA credit cards.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Our capital expenditures over the last three years totaled $1,827, with $803 in 2013, $513 in 2012 and $511 in 2011.

Capital expenditures increased in 2013 compared with 2012 as we continued to make progress executing our customer strategy through increased investments in technology, e-commerce, remodels and new stores, including Nordstrom Rack and our Manhattan full-line store. The following table summarizes our store count and square footage activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We relocated one Nordstrom full-line store and two Nordstrom Rack stores in 2013, compared with three Nordstrom Rack relocations in 2012. Our 2013 new store openings and relocations increased our square footage by 2.9%.

To date in 2014, we have opened two Nordstrom Rack stores. We plan to open 27 Nordstrom Rack stores and three full-line stores in 2014. In February 2014, we announced our plans to close our full-line stores in Vancouver, Washington, and in Portland, Oregon, at the Lloyd Center, in January 2015. The planned net store openings are expected to increase our retail square footage by approximately 4.4%.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  27
We received property incentives from our developers of $89 in 2013, $58 in 2012 and $78 in 2011. These incentives are included in our cash provided by operations in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. However, operationally we view these as an offset to our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditure percentages, net of property incentives, by category are summarized as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other capital expenditures consist of ongoing improvements to our stores in the ordinary course of business and expenditures related to various growth initiatives.

We expect to significantly increase our capital expenditures, net of property incentives, over the next five years to approximately $3,900, compared with $2,200 over the previous five years. We plan to spend approximately $840 to $880 in 2014 compared with $714 in 2013. Both of these increases are primarily due to technology initiatives and our planned entrance into new markets such as Canada, as well as new Nordstrom Rack and full-line stores. In addition, the growth in capital expenditures over the next five years includes costs for our Manhattan store. Over these next five years, we expect that approximately 44% of our net capital expenditures will be for new store openings, relocations, remodels and other with an additional 24% for entry into Canada and Manhattan, and 32% for e-commerce and information technology. We believe that we have the capacity for additional capital investments should opportunities arise.

CHANGE IN RESTRICTED CASH

In connection with the $500 debt maturity in the first quarter of 2012, we began making required monthly cash deposits of $100 into a restricted account in December 2011 until we accumulated $500 by April 2012 to retire the debt. As of January 28, 2012, we had accumulated $200. During the first quarter of 2012, the net amount withdrawn from restricted cash of $200 was recorded as cash received from investing activities.

CHANGE IN CREDIT CARD RECEIVABLES ORIGINATED AT THIRD PARTIES

The Nordstrom VISA credit cards allow our customers to make purchases at merchants outside of our stores and accumulate points for our Nordstrom Rewards program. In 2013, the change in credit card receivables from customers’ third-party purchases using their Nordstrom VISA credit cards decreased to $6, compared with $42 in 2012, as payment rates slightly increased in 2013, and VISA credit card volume remained relatively consistent with 2012. In 2012, there was a $204 increase in VISA credit card volume compared with 2011.

Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities was $589 in 2013 compared with $1,333 in 2012. Our financing activities include our short-term and long-term borrowing activity, repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends.

SHORT-TERM AND LONG-TERM BORROWING ACTIVITY

In the fourth quarter of 2013, we issued $665 of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due January 2044 (“2044 Notes”). We used $400 of the proceeds to retire all 6.75% senior unsecured notes due June 2014. We exchanged $201 of the 7.00% senior unsecured notes due January 2038 (“2038 Notes”) for $265 of the 2044 Notes. The $64 in excess of the outstanding principal of 2038 Notes relates to the lower interest rate and longer maturity of the new 2044 Notes, and we recorded it as part of the discount to be amortized over the term of the 2044 Notes. As of February 1, 2014, we had $595 of outstanding 2044 Notes, net of a $70 discount. The 2044 Notes exchanged for the 2038 Notes and the related discounts represented a non-cash activity of $201 that had no impact to our 2013 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended February 1, 2014. See Note 8: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information. 

During 2012, we retired our $500 securitized Series 2007-2 Class A & B Notes upon maturity in April 2012 using accumulated restricted cash described in Investing Activities above. 

During 2011, we issued $500 of senior unsecured notes at 4.00%, due October 2021. After deducting the original issue discount of $1, net proceeds from the offering were $499. Additionally, we issued $325 Series 2011-1 Class A Notes at 2.28%, due October 2016. 

Also in 2011, we received proceeds of $72 from the sale of our interest rate swap agreements (collectively, the “swap”) with a $650 notional amount maturing in 2018. We recorded the $72 on the sale date as an accumulated adjustment to our long-term debt, which will be amortized as a reduction of interest expense over the remaining life of the debt. As of February 1, 2014, the accumulated adjustment to our long-term debt was $48. See Note 1: Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8: Debt and Credit Facilities in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information related to our swap.

28
SHARE REPURCHASES

In February 2013, our Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase up to $800 of our outstanding common stock, through March 1, 2015, in addition to the remaining amount available for repurchase under previously authorized programs. During 2013, we repurchased 9.1 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $523. As of February 1, 2014, we had $670 remaining in share repurchase capacity. The actual number and timing of future share repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission rules.

DIVIDENDS

In 2013, we paid dividends of $234, or $1.20 per share, compared with $220, or $1.08 per share, in 2012. During the first quarter of 2013, we increased our quarterly dividend from $0.27 per share to $0.30 per share. In determining the amount of dividends to pay, we analyze our dividend payout ratio and dividend yield, while taking into consideration our current and projected operating performance and liquidity. We target a 30% to 35% dividend payout ratio, which is calculated as our dividend payments divided by net earnings.

In February 2014, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.33 per share, increased from a quarterly dividend of $0.30 per share in 2013.

Free Cash Flow (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Free Cash Flow is one of our key liquidity measures, and when used in conjunction with GAAP measures, provides investors with a meaningful analysis of our ability to generate cash from our business. For the year ended February 1, 2014, Free Cash Flow decreased to $324 compared with $340 for the year ended February 2, 2013, primarily due to an increase in capital expenditures related to the execution of our customer strategy.

Free Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, operating cash flows or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Free Cash Flow is net cash provided by operating activities. The following is a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit Capacity and Commitments

As of February 1, 2014, we had total short-term borrowing capacity available for general corporate purposes of $800. 

In March 2013, we terminated both our $600 unsecured revolving credit facility that was scheduled to expire in June 2016, and our $200 2007-A Variable Funding Note that was scheduled to expire in January 2014. We replaced these with a new five-year $800 senior unsecured revolving credit facility (“revolver”) that expires in March 2018. Also in March 2013, our wholly owned subsidiary Nordstrom fsb terminated its $100 variable funding facility.

Under the terms of our new revolver, we pay a variable rate of interest and a commitment fee based on our debt rating. The new revolver is available for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes and backs our commercial paper program. We have the option to increase the revolving commitment by up to $200, to a total of $1,000, provided that we obtain written consent from the lenders. 

Our $800 commercial paper program allows us to use the proceeds to fund operating cash requirements. Under the terms of the commercial paper agreement, we pay a rate of interest based on, among other factors, the maturity of the issuance and market conditions. The issuance of commercial paper has the effect, while it is outstanding, of reducing borrowing capacity under our revolver by an amount equal to the principal amount of commercial paper. 

During 2013, we had no issuances under our commercial paper program and no borrowings under our new revolver, the terminated $600 credit facility, or the terminated Nordstrom fsb credit facility. During 2012, we had no issuances under our commercial paper program and no borrowings under our $600 credit facility, the $200 Variable Funding Note, or the $100 Nordstrom fsb credit facility.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  29
In November 2013, our wholly owned subsidiary in Puerto Rico entered into a $52 unsecured borrowing facility that expires in November 2018 to support our expansion into that market. We borrowed $2 against this facility during 2013.

We have a registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission using a “shelf” registration process. Under this shelf registration process, we may offer and sell, from time to time, any combination of the securities described in a prospectus to the registration statement, including registered debt, provided we maintain Well-known Seasoned Issuer (“WKSI”) status.

We maintain trade and standby letters of credit to facilitate international payments. As of February 1, 2014, we have $8 available under a trade letter of credit, with $3 outstanding, and $15 available under the standby letter of credit, with $2 outstanding at the end of the year.

As of February 1, 2014, we had approximately $125 of fee interest in our Manhattan full-line store subject to lien. We have committed to make future installment payments based on the developer of the property meeting construction and development milestones. Our fee interest in the property is subject to lien until project completion or fulfillment of our existing installment payment commitment.

Impact of Credit Ratings

Under the terms of our revolver, any borrowings we may enter into will accrue interest for Euro-Dollar Rate Loans at a floating base rate tied to LIBOR, for Canadian Dealer Offer Rate Loans at a floating rate tied to CDOR, and for Base Rate Loans at the highest of: (i) the Euro-Dollar rate plus 100 basis points, (ii) the federal funds rate plus 50 basis points and (iii) the prime rate.

The rate depends upon the type of borrowing incurred, plus in each case an applicable margin. This applicable margin varies depending upon the credit ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt. At the time of this report, our long-term unsecured debt ratings, outlook and resulting applicable margin were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt improve, the applicable margin associated with any such borrowings may decrease, resulting in a slightly lower borrowing cost under this facility. Should the ratings assigned to our long-term unsecured debt worsen, the applicable margin associated with our borrowings may increase, resulting in a slightly higher borrowing cost under this facility.

Debt Covenants

The new revolver requires that we maintain an adjusted debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent (“EBITDAR”) leverage ratio of less than four times (see the following additional discussion of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR).

As of February 1, 2014 and February 2, 2013, we were in compliance with this covenant. We will continue to monitor this covenant and believe that we will remain in compliance with this covenant during 2014.

30
Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR (Non-GAAP financial measure)

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is one of our key financial metrics, and we believe that our debt levels are best analyzed using this measure. Our goal is to manage debt levels to maintain an investment-grade credit rating and operate with an efficient capital structure. In evaluating our debt levels, this measure provides a reflection of our credit worthiness that could impact our credit rating and cost of capital. We also have a debt covenant that requires an adjusted debt to EBITDAR leverage ratio of less than four times. As of February 1, 2014 and February 2, 2013, our Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR was 2.1.

Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, debt to net earnings, net earnings, debt or other financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our method of determining non-GAAP financial measures may differ from other companies’ methods and therefore may not be comparable to those used by other companies. The financial measure calculated under GAAP which is most directly comparable to Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR is debt to net earnings. The following is a reconciliation of the components of Adjusted Debt to EBITDAR and debt to net earnings:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2 Based upon the estimated lease liability as of the end of the period, calculated as the trailing 12 months of rent expense multiplied by eight. The multiple of eight times rent expense is a commonly used method of estimating the debt we would record for our leases that are classified as operating if they had met the criteria for a capital lease, or we had purchased the property.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  31
Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations and the expected effect on our liquidity and cash flows as of February 1, 2014. We expect to fund these commitments primarily with operating cash flows generated in the normal course of business and credit available to us under existing and potential future facilities.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Included in the required debt repayments disclosed above are estimated total interest payments of $2,035 as of February 1, 2014, payable over the remaining life of the debt.

The capital and operating lease obligations in the table above do not include payments for operating expenses that are required by most of our lease agreements. Such expenses, which include common area charges, real estate taxes and other executory costs, totaled $81 in 2013, $74 in 2012 and $69 in 2011. In addition, some of our leases require additional rental payments based on a percentage of our sales, referred to as “percentage rent.” Percentage rent, which is also excluded from the obligations in the table above, was $14 in 2013, $14 in 2012 and $12 in 2011.

Purchase obligations primarily consist of purchase orders for unreceived goods or services and capital expenditure commitments, including our Manhattan store.

Other long-term liabilities consist of workers’ compensation and general liability insurance reserves and postretirement benefits. The payment amounts presented above were estimated based on historical payment trends. Other long-term liabilities not requiring cash payments, such as deferred property incentives and deferred revenue, were excluded from the table above. Also excluded from the table above are unrecognized tax benefits of $13, as we are unable to reasonably estimate the timing of future cash payments, if any, for these liabilities.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We enter into commitments to extend credit to customers through our Nordstrom credit cards. The unused credit card capacity available to our customers represents an off-balance sheet commitment. As of February 1, 2014, this unfunded commitment was $15,140.

Other than operating leases entered into in the normal course of business, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements during 2013.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

The preparation of our financial statements requires that we make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following discussion highlights the estimates we believe are critical and should be read in conjunction with the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Our management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures that follow.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses reflects our best estimate of the losses inherent in our credit card receivables as of the balance sheet date, including uncollectible finance charges and fees. We estimate such credit losses based on several factors, including historical aging and delinquency trends, write-off experience, portfolio concentration and risk metrics and general economic conditions.

We believe the allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover anticipated losses in our credit card receivables under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the factors mentioned above could materially change these expectations. During 2013, our delinquency and net write-off results continued to improve. As a result, we reduced our allowance for credit losses by $5 during 2013, from $85 to $80, and by $30 in 2012, from $115 to $85. A 10% change in our allowance for credit losses would have affected net earnings by approximately $5 for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2014.

32
Revenue Recognition

We recognize revenue from sales at our retail stores at the point of sale, net of an allowance for estimated sales returns. Revenue from sales to customers shipped directly from our stores, website and catalog, which includes shipping revenue when applicable, is recognized upon estimated receipt by the customer. We estimate customer merchandise returns based on historical return patterns and reduce sales and cost of sales accordingly.

Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical knowledge to record reasonable estimates of sales returns, there is a possibility that actual returns could differ from recorded amounts. In the past three years, there were no significant changes in customer behavior and we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of our sales return reserve. A 10% change in the sales return reserve would have had an $8 impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 1, 2014.

Inventory

Our merchandise inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market value using the retail inventory method. Under the retail method, the valuation of inventories and the resulting gross margins are determined by applying a calculated cost-to-retail ratio to the retail value of ending inventory. The value of our inventory on the balance sheet is then reduced by a charge to cost of sales for retail inventory markdowns taken on the selling floor. To determine if the retail value of our inventory should be marked down, we consider current and anticipated demand, customer preferences, age of the merchandise and fashion trends. Inherent in the retail inventory method are certain management judgments that may affect the ending inventory valuation as well as gross margin.

We reserve for obsolescence based on historical trends and specific identification. Our obsolescence reserve contains uncertainties as the calculations require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends.

We do not believe that the assumptions used in these estimates will change significantly based on prior experience. In the past three years, we have made no material changes to our estimates included in the calculations of the obsolescence reserve. A 10% change in the obsolescence reserve would have had no material impact on our net earnings for the year ended February 1, 2014.

Goodwill

We review our goodwill annually for impairment, or when circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable. We perform this evaluation at the reporting unit level, comprised of the principal business units within our Retail segment. To assess the fair value of our HauteLook goodwill, we utilize both an income approach and a market approach. To determine the fair value of goodwill related to Nordstrom.com and Jeffrey, we utilize a market approach. We compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value to determine if there is potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the fair value of the goodwill within the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the goodwill.

As part of our impairment testing, we utilize certain assumptions and apply judgment regarding a number of factors. Significant estimates in the market approach include identifying similar companies and acquisitions with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return of investment and assessing comparable earnings or revenue multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit. Assumptions in the income approach include future cash flows for the business, future growth rates and discount rates. Estimates of cash flows may differ from actual cash flows due to, among other things, economic conditions, changes to the business model or changes in operating performance. For Nordstrom.com and Jeffrey, the fair values substantially exceeded carrying values and therefore we had no goodwill impairment in 2013, 2012 or 2011. In 2011, the year we acquired HauteLook, we recorded a goodwill impairment loss of $25. In 2013 and 2012, our testing indicated that the fair value of HauteLook substantially exceeded the carrying value, and therefore we did not record goodwill impairment for 2013 or 2012. A 10% change in the fair value of any of our reporting units would not have had an impact on our net earnings for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2014. 

Income Taxes

We regularly evaluate the likelihood of realizing the benefit for income tax positions we have taken in various federal, state and foreign filings by considering all relevant facts, circumstances and information available to us. If we believe it is more likely than not that our position will be sustained, we recognize a benefit at the largest amount that we believe is cumulatively greater than 50% likely to be realized. Our unrecognized tax benefit was $14 as of February 1, 2014 and $15 as of February 2, 2013.

Unrecognized tax benefits require significant management judgment regarding applicable statutes and their related interpretation, the status of various income tax audits and our particular facts and circumstances. Also, as audits are completed or statutes of limitations lapse, it may be necessary to record adjustments to our taxes payable, deferred taxes, tax reserves or income tax expense. Such adjustments did not materially impact our effective income tax rate in 2013 or 2012.

Nordstrom, Inc. and subsidiaries  33
Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.