ITEM 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our historical consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto in Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The discussion below contains forward-looking statements that are based upon our current expectations and are subject to uncertainty and changes in circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these expectations due to inaccurate assumptions and known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including those identified in “Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information” below and in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

 Introduction  

 We are a leading national provider of specialty contracting services, offering infrastructure solutions to the electric power, natural gas, oil and telecommunications industries. The services we provide include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of infrastructure within each of the industries we serve, such as electric power transmission and distribution networks and substation facilities, natural gas and oil transmission and distribution systems, and fiber optic, copper and coaxial cable networks used for video, data and voice transmission. We also design, procure, construct and maintain fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and license the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to customers.  

 We report our results under four reportable segments: (1) Electric Power Infrastructure Services, (2) Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services, (3) Telecommunications Infrastructure Services and (4) Fiber Optic Licensing. These reportable segments are based on the types of services we provide. Our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 were approximately $3.32 billion, of which 62% was attributable to the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment, 24% to the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment, 11% to the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment and 3% to the Fiber Optic Licensing segment.  

 Our customers include many of the leading companies in the industries we serve. We have developed strong strategic alliances with numerous customers and strive to develop and maintain our status as a preferred vendor to our customers. We enter into various types of contracts, including competitive unit price, hourly rate, cost-plus (or time and materials basis), and fixed price (or lump sum basis), the final terms and prices of which we frequently negotiate with the customer. Although the terms of our contracts vary considerably, most are made on either a unit price or fixed price basis in which we agree to do the work for a price per unit of work performed (unit price) or for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed price). We complete a substantial majority of our fixed price projects within one year, while we frequently provide maintenance and repair work under open-ended unit price or cost-plus master service agreements that are renewable periodically.  

 We recognize revenue on our unit price and cost-plus contracts as units are completed or services are performed. For our fixed price contracts, we record revenues as work on the contract progresses on a percentage-of-completion basis. Under this method, revenue is recognized based on the percentage of total costs incurred to date in proportion to total estimated costs to complete the contract. Fixed price contracts generally include retainage provisions under which a percentage of the contract price is withheld until the project is complete and has been accepted by our customer.  

 For internal management purposes, we are organized into three internal divisions, namely, the electric power division, the natural gas and pipeline division and the telecommunications division. These internal divisions are closely aligned with the reportable segments described above based on the predominant type of work provided by the operating units within a division. The operating units providing predominantly telecommunications and fiber optic licensing services are managed within the same internal division.  

 Reportable segment information, including revenues and operating income by type of work, is gathered from each operating unit for the purpose of evaluating segment performance in support of our market strategies. These classifications of our operating unit revenues by type of work for segment reporting purposes can at times require judgment on the part of management. Our operating units may perform joint infrastructure service projects for customers in multiple industries, deliver multiple types of network services under a single customer contract or provide service across industries, for example, joint trenching projects to install distribution lines for electric power,    

 33   
 natural gas and telecommunication customers and the installation of broadband communication over electric power lines. Our integrated operations and common administrative support at each of our operating units requires that certain allocations, including allocations of shared and indirect costs, such as facility costs, indirect operating expenses including depreciation and general and administrative costs, are made to determine operating segment profitability. Corporate costs, such as payroll and benefits, employee travel expenses, facility costs, professional fees, acquisition costs and amortization related to certain intangible costs are not allocated.  

 Prior to the second quarter of 2009, we reported our results under two business segments, with all of our operating segments, other than the operating segment comprising the Fiber Licensing segment, aggregated into the Infrastructure Services segment. During the second quarter of 2009, we reported our results under three reportable segments: (1) Electric & Gas Infrastructure Services, (2) Telecom & Ancillary Infrastructure Services and (3) Dark Fiber. The prior periods have been restated to reflect the change to the four reportable segments described above.  

 The Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the electric power industry. Services performed by the Electric Power Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, upgrade, repair and maintenance of electric power transmission and distribution networks and substation facilities along with other engineering and technical services. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including repairing infrastructure damaged by inclement weather, the energized installation, maintenance and upgrade of electric power infrastructure utilizing unique bare hand and hot stick methods and our proprietary robotic arm technologies, and the installation of “smart grid” technologies on electric power networks. In addition, this segment designs, installs and maintains wind turbine facilities and solar arrays and related switchyards and transmission networks for renewable power generation sources. To a lesser extent, this segment provides services such as the design, installation, maintenance and repair of commercial and industrial wiring, installation of traffic networks and the installation of cable and control systems for light rail lines.  

 The Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment provides comprehensive network solutions to customers involved in the transportation of natural gas, oil and other pipeline products. Services performed by the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of natural gas and oil transmission and distribution systems, compressor and pump stations and gas gathering systems, as well as related trenching, directional boring and automatic welding services. In addition, this segment’s services include pipeline protection, pipeline integrity and rehabilitation and fabrication of pipeline support systems and related structures and facilities. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including repairing natural gas and oil pipeline infrastructure damaged by inclement weather. To a lesser extent, this segment designs, installs and maintains airport fueling systems as well as water and sewer infrastructure.  

 The Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment predominantly provides comprehensive network solutions to customers in the telecommunications and cable television industries. Services performed by the Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segment generally include the design, installation, repair and maintenance of fiber optic, copper and coaxial cable networks used for video, data and voice transmission, as well as the design and installation of wireless communications towers and switching systems. This segment also provides emergency restoration services, including repairing telecommunications infrastructure damaged by inclement weather. To a lesser extent, services provided under this segment include cable locating, splicing and testing of fiber optic networks and residential installation of fiber optic cabling.  

 The Fiber Optic Licensing segment designs, procures, constructs and maintains fiber optic telecommunications infrastructure in select markets and licenses the right to use these point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities to its customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with lease terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic facility, with the facility owned and maintained by us. The Fiber Optic Licensing segment services educational and healthcare institutions, large industrial and financial services customers and other entities with high bandwidth telecommunication needs. The telecommunication services provided through this segment are subject to regulation by the Federal Communications Commission and certain state public utility commissions.   

 34   
 Recent Acquisitions  

 Price Gregory. On October 1, 2009, we acquired Price Gregory Services, Incorporated (Price Gregory), which provides natural gas and oil transmission pipeline infrastructure services in North America. In connection with this acquisition, we issued approximately 10.9 million shares of our common stock valued at approximately $231.8 million and paid approximately $95.8 million in cash to the stockholders of Price Gregory. The results of Price Gregory have been included in our consolidated financial statements beginning on October 1, 2009. The acquisition significantly expands our existing natural gas and pipeline operations. In conjunction with this acquisition, we added the natural gas and pipeline division for internal management purposes. Because of the type of work performed by Price Gregory, its financial results will generally be included in the Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services segment.  

 Other 2009 Acquisitions. Also during 2009, we completed three other acquisitions of specialty contractors with operations in the electric power, gas and telecommunications industries for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $36.0 million, consisting of a total of approximately $25.3 million in cash and 528,983 shares of our common stock valued in the aggregate at approximately $10.7 million at the dates of acquisition. These acquisitions enhance our electric, gas and pipeline and telecommunications capabilities throughout the various regions of the United States and Western Canada.  

 Seasonality; Fluctuations of Results  

 Our revenues and results of operations can be subject to seasonal and other variations. These variations are influenced by weather, customer spending patterns, bidding seasons, project schedules and timing and holidays. In general, our revenues are lowest in the first quarter of the year because cold, snowy or wet conditions cause delays. The second quarter is typically better than the first, as some projects begin, but continued cold and wet weather can often impact second quarter productivity. The third quarter is typically the best of the year, as a greater number of projects are underway and weather is more accommodating to work on projects. Generally, revenues during the fourth quarter of the year are lower than the third quarter but higher than the second quarter. Many projects are completed in the fourth quarter, and revenues are often impacted positively by customers seeking to spend their capital budget before the end of the year; however, the holiday season and inclement weather sometimes can cause delays and thereby reduce revenues and increase costs.  

 Additionally, our industry can be highly cyclical. As a result, our volume of business may be adversely affected by declines or delays in new projects in various geographic regions in the United States. Project schedules, in particular in connection with larger, longer-term projects, can also create fluctuations in the services provided, which may adversely affect us in a given period. The financial condition of our customers and their access to capital, variations in the margins of projects performed during any particular period, regional, national and global economic and market conditions, timing of acquisitions, the timing and magnitude of acquisition and integration costs associated with acquisitions and interest rate fluctuations may also materially affect quarterly results. Accordingly, our operating results in any particular period may not be indicative of the results that can be expected for any period. You should read “Outlook” and “Understanding Gross Margins” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 We and our customers are operating in a challenging business environment in light of the economic downturn and weak capital markets. We are closely monitoring our customers and the effect that changes in economic and market conditions have had or may have on them. We have experienced reduced spending by our customers in late 2008 and throughout 2009, which we attribute to negative economic and market conditions, and we anticipate that these negative conditions will continue to affect demand for our services in the near-term until conditions improve. However, we believe that most of our customers, many of whom are regulated utilities, remain financially stable in general and will be able to continue with their business plans in the long-term without substantial constraints. You should read “Outlook” and “Understanding Gross Margins” for additional discussion of trends and challenges that may affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   

 35   
 Understanding Gross Margins  

 Our gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenues. Cost of services, which is subtracted from revenues to obtain gross profit, consists primarily of salaries, wages and benefits to employees, depreciation, fuel and other equipment expenses, equipment rentals, subcontracted services, insurance, facilities expenses, materials and parts and supplies. Various factors — some controllable, some not — impact our gross margins on a quarterly or annual basis.  

 Seasonal and Geographical. As discussed above, seasonal patterns can have a significant impact on gross margins. Generally, business is slower in the winter months versus the warmer months of the year. This can be offset somewhat by increased demand for electrical service and repair work resulting from severe weather. In addition, the mix of business conducted in different parts of the country will affect margins, as some parts of the country offer the opportunity for higher gross margins than others due to the geographic characteristics associated with the physical location where the work is being performed. Such characteristics include whether the project is performed in an urban versus a rural setting or in a mountainous area or in open terrain. Site conditions, including unforeseen underground conditions, can also impact margins.  

 Weather. Adverse or favorable weather conditions can impact gross margins in a given period. For example, it is typical in the first quarter of any fiscal year that parts of the country may experience snow or rainfall that may negatively impact our revenues and gross margin due to reduced productivity. In many cases, projects may be delayed or temporarily placed on hold. Conversely, in periods when weather remains dry and temperatures are accommodating, more work can be done, sometimes with less cost, which would have a favorable impact on gross margins. In some cases, severe weather, such as hurricanes and ice storms, can provide us with higher margin emergency restoration service work, which generally has a positive impact on margins.  

 Revenue Mix. The mix of revenues derived from the industries we serve will impact gross margins, as certain industries provide higher margin opportunities. Additionally, changes in our customers’ spending patterns in each of the industries we serve can cause an imbalance in supply and demand and, therefore, affect margins and mix of revenues by industry served.  

 Service and Maintenance versus Installation. Installation work is often obtained on a fixed price basis, while maintenance work is often performed under pre-established or negotiated prices or cost-plus pricing arrangements. Gross margins for installation work may vary from project to project, and can be higher than maintenance work, because work obtained on a fixed price basis has higher risk than other types of pricing arrangements. We typically derive approximately 50% of our annual revenues from maintenance work, but a higher portion of installation work in any given period may affect our gross margins for that period.  

 Subcontract Work. Work that is subcontracted to other service providers generally yields lower gross margins. An increase in subcontract work in a given period may contribute to a decrease in gross margin. We typically subcontract approximately 10% to 15% of our work to other service providers.  

 Materials versus Labor. Margins may be lower on projects on which we furnish materials as our mark-up on materials is generally lower than on labor costs. In a given period, a higher percentage of work that has a higher materials component may decrease overall gross margin.  

 Depreciation. We include depreciation in cost of services. This is common practice in our industry, but it can make comparability to other companies difficult. This must be taken into consideration when comparing us to other companies.  

 Insurance. Gross margins could be impacted by fluctuations in insurance accruals as additional claims arise and as circumstances and conditions of existing claims change. We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. As of August 1, 2009, we renewed our employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation policies for the current 2009 to 2010 policy year. As a result of the renewal, the deductibles for all policies have increased to $5.0 million per occurrence other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For the policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims    

 36   
 were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, through July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence.  

 Performance Risk. Margins may fluctuate because of the volume of work and the impacts of pricing and job productivity, which can be impacted both favorably and negatively by weather, geography, customer decisions and crew productivity. For example, when comparing a service contract between a current quarter and the comparable prior year’s quarter, factors affecting the gross margins associated with the revenues generated by the contract may include pricing under the contract, the volume of work performed under the contract, the mix of the type of work specifically being performed and the productivity of the crews performing the work. Productivity of a crew can be influenced by many factors, including where the work is performed (e.g., rural versus urban area or mountainous or rocky area versus open terrain), whether the work is on an open or encumbered right of way, or the impacts of inclement weather. These types of factors are not practicable to quantify through accounting data, but each may have a direct impact on the gross margin of a specific project.  

 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of compensation and related benefits to management, administrative salaries and benefits, marketing, office rent and utilities, communications, professional fees, bad debt expense, acquisition costs, gains and losses on the sale of property and equipment, letter of credit fees and maintenance, training and conversion costs related to the implementation of an information technology solution.  

 Results of Operations  

 The results of operations data below for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008 has been retrospectively restated in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Staff Position (FSP) FSP APB 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Settlement)” (FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 470-20, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options). For more details regarding how the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20) impacted Quanta’s consolidated financial statements, see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the results of operations data below does not reflect the operations of Environmental Professional Associates, Limited (EPA), a Quanta subsidiary, in any periods as EPA’s results of operations are reflected as a discontinued operation in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations. All of the operating assets of EPA were sold on August 31,    

 37   
 2007. The following table sets forth selected statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of revenues for the years indicated (dollars in thousands):  

 Consolidated Results  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2009 compared to 2008  

 Consolidated Results  

 Revenues. Revenues decreased $462.1 million, or 12.2%, to $3.32 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Electric power infrastructure services revenues decreased $233.7, or 10.2%, to $2.1 billion, telecommunications infrastructure services revenues decreased $158.4 million, or 29.5%, to $378.4 million and natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services revenues decreased $94.9 million, or 10.8%, to $784.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Overall, revenues were negatively impacted by decreases in the number and size of projects as a result of reduced capital spending by our customers. Additionally, revenues from electric power infrastructure services were also impacted by a decrease of approximately $126.5 million in revenues from emergency restoration services, from approximately $206.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to approximately $79.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, due to work performed following hurricanes Fay, Gustav and Ike during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 in the Gulf Coast region of the United States. These decreases were partially offset by approximately $245.1 million in natural gas and pipeline services revenues contributed by Price Gregory for the period from October 1, 2009 to December 31, 2009. Additionally, revenues from fiber optic licensing increased $24.9 million, or 40.0%, to $87.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase in revenues is primarily a result of our continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.  

 Gross profit. Gross profit decreased $41.4 million, or 6.5%, to $593.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in gross profit resulted primarily from the effect of the decreased revenues discussed above. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin increased from 16.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008 to 17.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily as a result of increased revenues from our higher margin electric transmission services combined with improved margins in telecommunications infrastructure services. Gross margins for our telecommunications infrastructure services were negatively affected in 2008 by losses on a project ongoing during the year, which resulted from substantial delays and productivity issues on the project. In addition, gross margins in 2009 were favorably impacted by increased fiber optic licensing revenues, which typically generate higher gross margins than our other services.   

 38   
 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $3.0 million, or 1.0%, to $312.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $7.5 million for the period October 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 as a result of the Price Gregory acquisition. In addition, acquisition and on-going integration costs of $2.8 million were incurred in 2009, primarily in connection with the Price Gregory acquisition. Also contributing to the increase were $8.0 million in net losses on sales of equipment during 2009, as compared to losses of $2.5 million in 2008. Included in the $8.0 million in net losses in 2009 was an impairment charge of $4.5 million for assets held for sale at December 31, 2009 related to natural gas segment equipment that was deemed to be duplicative as a result of the Price Gregory acquisition. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in performance bonuses of approximately $11.8 million. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 8.2% to 9.4% primarily due to less ability to cover fixed costs as a result of lower revenues earned in 2009.  

 Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased $2.7 million to $39.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase is primarily due to increased amortization of backlog related to the acquisition of Price Gregory on October 1, 2009, partially offset by reduced amortization expense from previously acquired intangible assets as balances became fully amortized.  

 Interest expense. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $20.7 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to the conversion, redemption and repurchase of all outstanding 4.5% convertible subordinated notes that occurred in September and early October of 2008.  

 Interest income. Interest income was $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease results primarily from substantially lower interest rates partially offset by a higher average cash balance for the year ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2008.  

 Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $70.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, with an effective tax rate of 30.0%. The provision for income taxes was $109.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, with an effective tax rate of 41.0%. The lower effective tax rate for 2009 results primarily from $23.7 million of tax benefits recorded in 2009 associated with decreases in reserves for uncertain tax benefits resulting from the expiration of various federal and state statutes of limitations.  

 2008 compared to 2007  

 Consolidated Results  

 Revenues. Revenues increased $1.12 billion, or 42.3%, to $3.78 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. Electric power infrastructure services revenues increased by approximately $609.9 million, or 36.1%, natural gas and pipeline infrastructure services revenues increased by approximately $411.3 million, or 87.8%, and telecommunications infrastructure services revenues increased by approximately $58.1 million, or 12.1%. Revenues increased primarily due to the full year contribution of revenues from the operations acquired through the acquisition of InfraSource, as compared to only a four month contribution to revenues from these operations in 2007 as the acquisition was completed on August 30, 2007. Revenues were also favorably impacted by an increase of approximately $76.8 million in emergency restoration services, from approximately $130.9 million in 2007 to approximately $207.7 million in 2008, due primarily to the impact of hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region of the United States in 2008. Additionally, revenues increased due to an increased number and size of projects as a result of larger capital budgets for our customers, specifically in connection with electric transmission projects and certain natural gas transmission projects, as well as improved pricing; Lastly, revenues increased due to the impact of $44.9 million in additional revenues in 2008 from the Fiber Optic Licensing segment acquired as part of the InfraSource acquisition.  

 Gross profit. Gross profit increased $206.1 million, or 48.1%, to $634.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in gross profit results primarily from the contribution of the InfraSource operations discussed previously coupled with the effect of increased revenues. As a percentage of revenues, gross margin increased from 16.1% for the year ended December 31, 2007 to 16.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Gross margins were positively impacted in 2008 as compared to 2007 by improved pricing, the previously discussed increase in the amount of emergency restoration services, which typically generate higher margins, the    

 39   
 contribution of revenues from the higher margin Fiber Optic Licensing segment acquired as part of the InfraSource acquisition and better fixed costs absorption as a result of higher revenues. These positive factors were partially offset by declines in margins derived from telecommunications revenues due primarily to losses incurred in 2008 on a telecommunication project that resulted from substantial delays and productivity issues during the third and fourth quarters of 2008.  

 Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $68.9 million, or 28.6%, to $309.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily a result of the addition of a full year’s administrative expenses associated with the InfraSource operations, as well as higher salaries and benefits associated with increased personnel, salary increases and increased performance bonuses. Bad debt expense increased $6.0 million in 2008 to $7.3 million primarily due to the economic downturn and volatile capital markets experienced during the second half of 2008. As a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from 9.0% in 2007 to 8.2% in 2008 primarily due to improved cost absorption as a result of higher revenues.  

 Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets increased $17.5 million to $36.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase is attributable to the amortization of intangible assets associated with acquisitions completed since the beginning of 2007, primarily the acquisition of InfraSource completed on August 30, 2007.  

 Interest expense. Interest expense decreased $7.3 million to $32.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, due to the conversion, redemption or repurchase of all of the remaining 4.5% convertible subordinated notes on or before October 8, 2008 and the maturity and repayment of the outstanding 4.0% convertible subordinated notes on July 2, 2007.  

 Interest income. Interest income was $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The decrease in interest income primarily relates to a lower average investment balance and lower average interest rates for the year ended December 31, 2008 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2007.  

 Provision for income taxes. The provision for income taxes was $109.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, with an effective tax rate of 41.0%, compared to a provision of $27.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, with an effective tax rate of 18.5%. The lower effective tax rate for 2007 resulted from $34.4 million of tax benefits recorded in 2007 primarily due to a decrease in reserves for uncertain tax positions resulting from the settlement of a multi-year Internal Revenue Service audit in the first quarter of 2007 and the expiration of various federal and state tax statutes of limitations during the third quarter of 2007.   

 40   
 Segment Results  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 2009 compared to 2008  

 Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment decreased $233.7 million, or 10.2%, to $2.07 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. Revenues were negatively impacted by a decrease of approximately $126.5 million in revenues from emergency restoration services, from approximately $206.3 million in 2008 to approximately $79.8 million for 2009. This decrease resulted from work following hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region of the United States during 2008 which was only partially offset by emergency restoration services related to ice storms in the first quarter of 2009. Emergency restoration services associated with these hurricanes continued into the first quarter of 2009; however, no major hurricanes impacted the United States during 2009. Revenues were also negatively impacted by a decrease in electric power distribution services and other electric power infrastructure services primarily from reduced service work and capital spending by our customers, which was partially offset by increased revenues from electric transmission services related to an increased number of larger projects being performed in 2009.  

 Operating income decreased $21.6 million, or 8.7%, for the year ended December 31, 2009, as a result of the reduced revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased slightly from 10.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008 to 10.9% for the year ended December 31, 2009. Although there was a substantial decrease in emergency restoration services in 2009, which typically generate higher margins, the increased contribution in 2009 from higher margin electric transmission services as well as generally higher margins for other services in this segment offset this decrease. In addition, general and administrative expenses decreased approximately $6.2 million primarily due to decreased salaries and benefits expense associated with lower performance bonuses.  

 Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment decreased $94.9 million, or 10.8%, to $784.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in gas distribution services of $73.4 million due to reduced capital spending by our customers resulting in reductions in the number and size of projects during the period. Additionally, natural gas transmission revenues contributed by Price Gregory, which was acquired on October 1, 2009, were approximately $245.1 million, which offset year over year decreases in other natural gas transmission revenues of $246.7 million resulting from larger projects during 2008 that were not replaced in 2009.   

 41   
 Operating income decreased $13.5 million, or 17.7%, to $62.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as a result of the decreased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased from 8.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008 to 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in operating margins is primarily due to the lower overall revenues and the related impact on this segment’s ability to cover fixed costs, coupled with losses of $4.5 million on natural gas segment assets held for sale that were deemed to be duplicative assets as a result of the acquisition and integration of Price Gregory. These decreases were partially offset by the contribution of Price Gregory’s higher margin transmission pipeline work.  

 Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment decreased $158.4 million, or 29.5%, to $378.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 primarily due to reduced capital spending for fiber build-out initiatives during 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2009, revenues from fiber build-out initiatives decreased approximately $114.5 million to approximately $147.8 million as compared to approximately $262.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Revenues were also negatively impacted by a decrease in the number and size of other telecommunications projects as a result of overall reduced capital spending by our customers in 2009 as compared to 2008.  

 Operating income decreased $16.6 million, or 39.5%, to $25.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as a result of the decreased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased from 7.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008 to 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009. This decrease is a result of the lower overall revenues and the related impact on this segment’s ability to cover fixed costs during 2009.  

 Fiber Optic Licensing Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment increased from $62.3 million, or 40.0%, to $87.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase in revenues is primarily a result of our continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.  

 Operating income increased $11.4 million, or 34.7%, to $44.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 as a result of the increased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased from 52.6% to 50.6% primarily as a result of the timing of various system maintenance costs.  

 Corporate and Non-allocated Costs  

 Certain selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets are not allocated to segments. Corporate and non-allocated costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 increased $6.8 million to $116.1 million primarily due to a $2.9 million increase in non-capitalized costs associated with an ongoing implementation of information technology solutions, coupled with acquisition and integration costs of approximately $2.8 million incurred in 2009, principally related to the Price Gregory acquisition, and an increase in amortization of intangible assets of $2.7 million. This increase in amortization of intangible assets is primarily due to increased amortization of backlog related to the acquisition of Price Gregory on October 1, 2009, partially offset by reduced amortization expense from previously acquired intangible assets as balances became fully amortized. These increases were partially offset by decreases due to lower salaries and benefits expense in 2009 associated with lower performance bonuses.  

 2008 compared to 2007  

 Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment increased $609.9 million, or 36.1%, to $2.30 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition to the contribution of revenues from the InfraSource operations for the full year 2008 as compared to only four months in 2007, revenues were also positively impacted by an increased number and size of electric transmission projects as a result of larger capital budgets for our customers. Revenues were also positively impacted by an increase of approximately $75.4 million in emergency restoration services, from approximately    

 42   
 $130.9 million in 2007 to approximately $206.3 million for 2008, due primarily to work following hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region of the United States during 2008.  

 Operating income increased $87.3 million, or 54.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2008, as a result of the increased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased from 9.5% for the year ended December 31, 2007 to 10.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Contributing to these increases was the increase in emergency restoration services, which typically generate higher margins, and better fixed cost absorption as a result of higher revenues.  

 Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment increased $426.1 million, or 94.0%, to $879.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition to the contribution of revenues from the InfraSource operations for the full year 2008 as compared to only four months in 2007, revenues were also positively impacted due to an increased number and size of natural gas transmission pipeline projects as a result of larger capital budgets for our customers.  

 Operating income increased $56.2 million, to $76.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, as a result of the increased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased from 4.4% to 8.7% for the year ended December 31, 2008. These increases are due to higher overall revenues in 2008 and the related impact on this segment’s ability to cover fixed costs, as well as the larger contribution of higher margin natural gas transmission pipeline services work in 2008 versus 2007.  

 Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment increased $43.3 million, or 8.8%, to $536.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. In addition to the contribution of revenues from the Infrasource operations for the full year 2008 as compared to only four months in 2007, revenues were also positively impacted by increased revenues from fiber build-out initiatives for certain of our customers.  

 Operating income decreased $19.2 million, or 31.5%, to $41.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Operating income as a percentage of revenues decreased from 12.4% for the year ended December 31, 2007 to 7.8% for the year ended December 31, 2008. This decrease is primarily due to the replacement of a higher margin FTTx project that occurred in 2007 with a greater volume of FTTx projects that had lower margins in 2008. Also contributing to the decrease in operating income profitability for 2008 were losses recognized in 2008 associated with a telecommunications project that was profitable in 2007 but experienced substantial project delays and productivity issues in the third and fourth quarters of 2008. Additionally, prior to the acquisition of InfraSource in August of 2007, Quanta provided higher margin services to what is now our Fiber Optic Licensing segment. Subsequent to the acquisition, these services are no longer for an external customer and are therefore excluded from our results of operations.  

 Fiber Optic Licensing Segment Results  

 Revenues for this segment increased from $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $62.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase in revenues is primarily a result of the inclusion of this segment for the full year in 2008 as compared to only four months in 2007 as this segment was acquired through our InfraSource acquisition in 2007, as well as our continued network expansion and the associated revenues from licensing the right to use point-to-point fiber optic telecommunications facilities.  

 Operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $24.1 million, or 276.1%, to $32.8 million, as a result of the increased revenues discussed above. Operating income as a percentage of revenues increased from 50.0% to 52.6% primarily as a result of the timing of various system maintenance costs.  

 Corporate and Non-allocated Costs  

 Certain selling, general and administrative expenses and amortization of intangible assets are not allocated to segments. Corporate and non-allocated costs for the year ended December 31, 2008 increased $28.6 million to $109.4 million primarily due to an increase in amortization of intangible assets of $17.5 million, primarily associated with intangibles acquired as part of the InfraSource acquisition in 2007, and an increase of $7.3 million    

 43   
 in stock-based compensation due to increased issuances as well as an increased number of restricted stock holders due to the acquisition of InfraSource. Additionally, bad debt expense increased $6.0 million in 2008 to $7.3 million primarily due to the economic downturn and volatile capital markets experienced during the second half of 2008, and we incurred $2.9 million in non-capitalizable costs associated with the implementation of an information technology solution. Partially offsetting these increases were decreased transaction costs of $1.7 million due to costs incurred in 2007 as part of the InfraSource acquisition, as well as lower levels of administration expenses due to the elimination of the previous InfraSource corporate office.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Cash Requirements  

 We anticipate that our cash and cash equivalents on hand, which totaled $699.6 million as of December 31, 2009, existing borrowing capacity under our credit facility, and our future cash flows from operations will provide sufficient funds to enable us to meet our future operating needs, debt service requirements and planned capital expenditures, as well as facilitate our ability to grow in the foreseeable future. We also evaluate opportunities for strategic acquisitions from time to time that may require cash.  

 Management continues to monitor the financial markets and general national and global economic conditions. We consider our cash investment policies to be conservative in that we maintain a diverse portfolio of what we believe to be high-quality cash investments with short-term maturities. We were in compliance with our covenants under our credit facility at December 31, 2009. Accordingly, we do not anticipate that the volatility in the capital markets will have a material impact on the principal amounts of our cash investments or our ability to rely upon our existing credit facility for funds. To date, we have experienced no loss or lack of access to our cash or cash equivalents or funds under our credit facility; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our cash and cash equivalents and funds under our credit facility will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets.  

 Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $215 million for 2010. Approximately $70 million of the expected 2010 capital expenditures are targeted for the expansion of our fiber optic network, primarily in connection with committed customer arrangements.  

 Our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2026 (3.75% Notes) are not presently convertible into our common stock, although they have been convertible in certain prior quarters as a result of the satisfaction of the market price condition described in further detail in “Debt Instruments — 3.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes” below. The 3.75% Notes could become convertible in future periods upon the satisfaction of the market price condition or other conditions. If any holder of the convertible notes requests to convert their notes, we have the option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, with the amount of cash determined in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the notes were issued.  

 Sources and Uses of Cash  

 As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $699.6 million, working capital of $1.09 billion and long-term obligations of $126.6 million, net of current maturities. These long-term obligations are our 3.75% Notes, which have an aggregate principal amount of $143.8 million. We also had $188.3 million of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility, leaving $286.7 million available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit.  

 Operating Activities  

 Cash flow from operations is primarily influenced by demand for our services, operating margins and the type of services we provide, but can also be influenced by working capital needs such as the timing of collection of receivables and the settlement of payables and other obligations. Working capital needs are generally higher during the summer and fall months due to increased services in weather affected regions of the country. Conversely, working capital assets are typically converted to cash during the winter months. Operating activities provided net cash to us of $376.9 million during 2009 as compared to $242.5 million during 2008 and $219.2 million during 2007. The increase in operating cash flows in 2009 as compared to 2008 is due primarily to the collection of    

 44   
 accounts receivable and large retainage balances that were outstanding at the end of 2008, along with the lower uses of cash for working capital requirements in 2009 compared to 2008 as a result of lower overall levels of operating activity in the latter part of 2009. The increase in operating cash flows in 2008 as compared to 2007 is due primarily to higher levels of income from year over year growth and contributions from work with higher profit margins, which was largely offset by cash outflows resulting from the higher working capital requirements associated with increased 2008 operating activity.  

 Investing Activities  

 During 2009, we used net cash in investing activities of $119.7 million as compared to $219.3 million and $120.6 million used in investing activities in 2008 and 2007. Investing activities in 2009 included $165.0 million used for capital expenditures, partially offset by $9.1 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. Additionally, investing activities in 2009 included $36.2 million of net cash acquired related primarily to our acquisition of Price Gregory. During 2008 and 2007, we used $185.6 million and $127.9 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by $15.4 million and $27.5 million of proceeds from the sale of equipment. The increase in capital expenditures of $57.7 million in 2008 compared to 2007 is related primarily to the growth in our business, in connection with our acquisition of InfraSource, and capital expenditure requirements of our Fiber Optic Licensing segment, which expended $73.9 million, $99.6 million and $23.7 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Investing activities during 2008 also include $34.5 million in net cash outlays for three acquisitions and $14.6 million paid to secure patents and developed technology. Quanta made four acquisitions during 2007, including InfraSource. Investing cash flows in 2007 include $20.1 million in net cash outlays for these acquisitions, including $12.1 million of acquisition expenses related to the acquisition of InfraSource. The acquisition of InfraSource was accounted for under accounting guidance that considered acquisition-related costs to be a component of the total consideration paid for acquisitions and therefore included in goodwill on the balance sheet and in investing activities on the statement of cash flows. In 2009, this guidance has changed and such treatment of acquisition related costs is no longer allowed. Investing activities in the first quarter of 2007 also included purchases and sales of variable rate demand notes (VRDNs), which were classified as short-term investments available for sale and which were presented as such in our 2007 investing activities. We have not invested in VRDNs after the first quarter of 2007.  

 Financing Activities  

 In 2009, financing activities provided net cash of $1.5 million as compared to $8.2 million provided by financing activities in 2008 and $78.9 million used in financing activities in 2007. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2009 resulted primarily from a $1.5 million tax impact from the vesting of stock-based equity awards, partially offset by cash inflows of $1.0 million from the exercise of stock options, coupled with $2.0 million in net proceeds from borrowings. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2008 resulted primarily from $6.0 million received from the exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities in 2007 resulted primarily from a $60.5 million repayment of debt associated with the acquisition of InfraSource and a $33.3 million repayment of the 4.0% convertible subordinated notes.  

 Debt Instruments  

 Credit Facility  

 We have a credit facility with various lenders that provides for a $475.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility maturing on September 19, 2012. Subject to the conditions specified in the credit facility, borrowings under the credit facility are to be used for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. The entire unused portion of the credit facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit.  

 As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $188.3 million of letters of credit issued under the credit facility and no outstanding revolving loans. The remaining $286.7 million was available for revolving loans or issuing new letters of credit. Amounts borrowed under the credit facility bear interest, at our option, at a rate equal to either (a) the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 0.875% to 1.75%, as determined by the ratio of    

 45   
 our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit facility), or (b) the base rate (as described below) plus 0.00% to 0.75%, as determined by the ratio of our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. Letters of credit issued under the credit facility are subject to a letter of credit fee of 0.875% to 1.75%, based on the ratio of our total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA. We are also subject to a commitment fee of 0.15% to 0.35%, based on the ratio of its total funded debt to consolidated EBITDA, on any unused availability under the credit facility. The base rate equals the higher of (i) the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the credit facility) plus 1/2 of 1% or (ii) the bank’s prime rate.  

 The credit facility contains certain covenants, including covenants with respect to maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA, maximum senior debt to consolidated EBITDA and minimum interest coverage, in each case as specified in the credit facility. For purposes of calculating the maximum funded debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio and the maximum senior debt to consolidated EBITDA ratio, our maximum funded debt and maximum senior debt are reduced by all cash and cash equivalents (as defined in the credit facility) held by us in excess of $25.0 million. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all of its covenants. The credit facility limits certain acquisitions, mergers and consolidations, capital expenditures, asset sales and prepayments of indebtedness and, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits liens on material assets. The credit facility also limits the payment of dividends and stock repurchase programs in any fiscal year except those payments or other distributions payable solely in capital stock. The credit facility provides for customary events of default and carries cross-default provisions with our existing subordinated notes, our continuing indemnity and security agreement with our sureties and all of our other debt instruments exceeding $15.0 million in borrowings. If an event of default (as defined in the credit facility) occurs and is continuing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the credit facility, amounts outstanding under the credit facility may be accelerated and may become or be declared immediately due and payable.  

 The credit facility is secured by a pledge of all of the capital stock of our U.S. subsidiaries, 65% of the capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries and substantially all of our assets. Our U.S. subsidiaries guarantee the repayment of all amounts due under the credit facility. Our obligations under the credit facility constitute designated senior indebtedness under our 3.75% Notes.  

 3.75% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding $143.8 million aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Notes. The resale of the notes and the shares issuable upon conversion thereof was registered for the benefit of the holders in a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC. The 3.75% Notes mature on April 30, 2026 and bear interest at the annual rate of 3.75%, payable semi-annually on April 30 and October 30, until maturity.  

 The $122.3 million and $126.6 million of convertible subordinated notes on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008 and 2009 are presented net of a debt discount of $21.5 million and $17.2 million. The debt discount is amortized as interest expense over the remaining amortization period. The debt discount was recorded in accordance with the January 1, 2009 adoption of FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20) as discussed in Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements. The effective interest rate used to calculate total interest expense for the 3.75% Notes under FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20) was 7.85%. At December 31, 2009, the remaining amortization period for the debt discount, which continues until the first repurchase right on April 30, 2013, is approximately 3.3 years.  

 The 3.75% Notes are convertible into our common stock, based on an initial conversion rate of 44.6229 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 3.75% Notes (which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $22.41 per share), subject to adjustment as a result of certain events. The 3.75% Notes are convertible by the holder (i) during any fiscal quarter if the closing price of our common stock is greater than 130% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter, (ii) upon us calling the 3.75% Notes for redemption, (iii) upon the occurrence of specified distributions to holders of our common stock or specified corporate transactions or (iv) at any time on or after March 1, 2026 until the business day immediately preceding the maturity date of the 3.75% Notes. The 3.75% Notes are not presently convertible, although they have been convertible in certain prior quarters as a result of the satisfaction of the market price condition in clause (i) above. If    

 46   
 the 3.75% Notes become convertible under any of these circumstances, we have the option to deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, with the amount of cash determined in accordance with the terms of the indenture under which the notes were issued. Conversions that may occur in the future could result in the recording of losses on extinguishment of debt if the conversions are settled in cash for an amount in excess of the principal amount. The holders of the 3.75% Notes who convert their notes in connection with certain change in control transactions, as defined in the indenture, may be entitled to a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate. In the event of a change in control, in lieu of paying holders a make whole premium, if applicable, we may elect, in some circumstances, to adjust the conversion rate and related conversion obligations so that the 3.75% Notes are convertible into shares of the acquiring or surviving company.  

 Beginning on April 30, 2010 until April 30, 2013, we may redeem for cash all or part of the 3.75% Notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, if the closing price of our common stock is equal to or greater than 130% of the conversion price then in effect for the 3.75% Notes for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the trading day immediately prior to the date of mailing of the notice of redemption. In addition, we may redeem for cash all or part of the 3.75% Notes at any time on or after April 30, 2010 at certain redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Beginning with the six-month interest period commencing on April 30, 2010, and for each six-month interest period thereafter, we will be required to pay contingent interest on any outstanding 3.75% Notes during the applicable interest period if the average trading price of the 3.75% Notes during the five consecutive trading days immediately preceding the last trading day before commencement of the applicable interest period equals or exceeds 120% of the principal amount of the notes. The contingent interest payable within any applicable interest period will equal an annual rate of 0.25% of the average trading price of the 3.75% Notes during a five trading day reference period.  

 The holders of the 3.75% Notes may require us to repurchase all or a part of the notes in cash on each of April 30, 2013, April 30, 2016 and April 30, 2021, and in the event of a change in control of the company, as defined in the indenture, at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 3.75% Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. The 3.75% Notes carry cross-default provisions with our other debt instruments exceeding $20.0 million in borrowings, which includes our existing credit facility.  

 4.5% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 At December 31, 2008 and 2009, none of our 4.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2023 (4.5% Notes) were outstanding. During 2008, the holders of $269.8 million aggregate principal amount of 4.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2023 (4.5% Notes) elected to convert their notes, resulting in the issuance of 24,229,781 shares of our common stock, substantially all of which followed a notice of redemption that we would redeem on October 8, 2008 all of the 4.5% Notes outstanding pursuant to the indenture governing the notes. We also repurchased $106,000 aggregate principal amount of the 4.5% Notes on October 1, 2008 pursuant to the holders’ election and redeemed for cash $49,000 aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, on October 8, 2008. As a result of all of these transactions, none of the 4.5% Notes remained outstanding as of October 8, 2008. The 4.5% Notes were originally issued in October 2003 for an aggregate principal amount of $270.0 million and required semi-annual interest payments on April 1 and October 1 until maturity.  

 4.0% Convertible Subordinated Notes  

 During the first half of 2007, we had outstanding $33.3 million aggregate principal amount of 4.0% convertible subordinated notes due 2007 (4.0% Notes), which matured on July 1, 2007. The outstanding principal balance of the 4.0% Notes plus accrued interest was repaid on July 2, 2007, the first business day after the maturity date.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Transactions  

 As is common in our industry, we have entered into certain off-balance sheet arrangements in the ordinary course of business that result in risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. Our significant off-balance sheet transactions include liabilities associated with non-cancelable operating leases, letter of credit obligations, commitments to expand our fiber optic networks, surety guarantees, multi-employer pension plan liabilities and obligations relating to our joint venture arrangements. During the first quarter of 2009, two of our operating    

 47   
 units began operating in separate joint venture structures which contain risks not directly reflected in our balance sheets. In association with one of these joint ventures, we have guaranteed all of the obligations of the joint venture under the contract with the customer. Additionally, our second joint venture arrangement qualifies as a general partnership, for which we are jointly and severally liable for all of the obligations of the joint venture. In each of these joint venture arrangements, each joint venturer has indemnified the other party for any liabilities incurred in excess of the liabilities for which the joint venturer is obligated to bear under the respective joint venture agreement. Other than as previously discussed, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet financing arrangements through special purpose entities, and we have no material guarantees of the work or obligations of third parties.  

 Leases  

 We enter into non-cancelable operating leases for many of our facility, vehicle and equipment needs. These leases allow us to conserve cash by paying a monthly lease rental fee for use of facilities, vehicles and equipment rather than purchasing them. We may decide to cancel or terminate a lease before the end of its term, in which case we are typically liable to the lessor for the remaining lease payments under the term of the lease.  

 We have guaranteed the residual value of the underlying assets under certain of our equipment operating leases at the date of termination of such leases. We have agreed to pay any difference between this residual value and the fair market value of each underlying asset as of the lease termination date. As of December 31, 2009, the maximum guaranteed residual value was approximately $133.4 million. We believe that no significant payments will be made as a result of the difference between the fair market value of the leased equipment and the guaranteed residual value. However, there can be no assurance that future significant payments will not be required.  

 Letters of Credit  

 Certain of our vendors require letters of credit to ensure reimbursement for amounts they are disbursing on our behalf, such as to beneficiaries under our self-funded insurance programs. In addition, from time to time some customers require us to post letters of credit to ensure payment to our subcontractors and vendors under those contracts and to guarantee performance under our contracts. Such letters of credit are generally issued by a bank or similar financial institution. The letter of credit commits the issuer to pay specified amounts to the holder of the letter of credit if the holder demonstrates that we have failed to perform specified actions. If this were to occur, we would be required to reimburse the issuer of the letter of credit. Depending on the circumstances of such a reimbursement, we may also have to record a charge to earnings for the reimbursement. We do not believe that it is likely that any claims will be made under a letter of credit in the foreseeable future.  

 As of December 31, 2009, we had $188.3 million in letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility primarily to secure obligations under our casualty insurance program. These are irrevocable stand-by letters of credit with maturities generally expiring at various times throughout 2010. Upon maturity, it is expected that the majority of these letters of credit will be renewed for subsequent one-year periods.  

 Performance Bonds and Parent Guarantees  

 Many customers, particularly in connection with new construction, require us to post performance and payment bonds issued by a financial institution known as a surety. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that we will perform under the terms of a contract and that we will pay subcontractors and vendors. If we fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors and vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. We must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. Under our continuing indemnity and security agreement with our sureties and with the consent of our lenders under our credit facility, we have granted security interests in certain of our assets to collateralize our obligations to the sureties. In addition, under our agreement with the surety that issued bonds on behalf of InfraSource, which remains in place for any bonds that were outstanding under it on August 30, 2007 and have not expired or been replaced, we will be required to transfer to the surety certain of our assets as collateral in the event of a default under the agreement. We may be required to post letters of credit or other collateral in favor of the sureties or our customers in the future. Posting letters of credit in favor of the sureties or our customers would reduce the borrowing availability under our credit facility. To date, we have not been required to make any reimbursements to our sureties for bond-    

 48   
 related costs. We believe that it is unlikely that we will have to fund significant claims under our surety arrangements in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2009, the total amount of outstanding performance bonds was approximately $732.5 million, and the estimated cost to complete these bonded projects was approximately $177.6 million.  

 From time to time, we guarantee the obligations of our wholly owned subsidiaries, including obligations under certain contracts with customers, certain lease obligations and, in some states, obligations in connection with obtaining contractors’ licenses. We have also guaranteed the obligations of our wholly owned subsidiary under the joint venture arrangement with a third party engineering company entered into in the first quarter of 2009, which is described in Notes 2, 11 and 15 to our consolidated financial statements.  

 Contractual Obligations  

 As of December 31, 2009, our future contractual obligations are as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Actual maturities of our long-term obligations may differ from contractual maturities because convertible note holders may convert their notes prior to the maturity dates or subsequent to optional maturity dates. Additionally, the $143.8 million aggregate principal amount above differs from the approximately $126.6 million of convertible subordinated notes on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 due to the balance sheet amount being presented net of a discount of approximately $17.2 million.  

 The committed capital expenditures for fiber optic networks represent commitments related to signed contracts with customers. The amounts are estimates of costs required to build the networks under contract. The actual capital expenditures related to building the networks could vary materially from these estimates.  

 As of December 31, 2009, the total unrecognized tax benefit related to uncertain tax positions was $45.2 million. We estimate that none of this will be paid within the next twelve months. However, we believe that it is reasonably possible that within the next twelve months unrecognized tax benefits will decrease up to $9.3 million due to the expiration of certain statutes of limitations. We are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates regarding the timing of future cash outflows, if any, associated with the remaining unrecognized tax benefits.  

 Our multi-employer pension plan contributions are determined annually based on our union employee payrolls, which cannot be determined in advance for future periods. We may also be required to make additional contributions to our multi-employer pension plans if they become underfunded. For further information, see our risk factor regarding our unionized operations in Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

 Self-Insurance  

 We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. As of August 1, 2009, we renewed our employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation policies for the current 2009 to 2010 policy year. As a result of the renewal, the deductibles for all policies have increased to $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability, which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. Additionally, in connection with this renewal, the amount of letters of credit required to secure our obligations under our casualty insurance program, which is discussed above, has increased. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary    

 49   
 plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For the policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, for the policy year ended July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles have varied in periods prior to August 1, 2008.  

 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimate of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries. These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. As of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $147.9 million and $153.6 million, with $105.0 million and $109.8 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009 were $12.5 million and $33.7 million, of which $7.2 million and $13.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $5.3 million and $20.3 million are included in other assets, net.  

 We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or the cost to obtain such coverage may become unreasonable. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase which could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

 Concentration of Credit Risk  

 We are subject to concentrations of credit risk related primarily to our cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. Substantially all of our cash investments are managed by what we believe to be high credit quality financial institutions. In accordance with our investment policies, these institutions are authorized to invest this cash in a diversified portfolio of what we believe to be high quality investments, which primarily include interest-bearing demand deposits, money market mutual funds and investment grade commercial paper with original maturities of three months or less. Although we do not currently believe the principal amount of these investments is subject to any material risk of loss, the volatility in the financial markets has significantly impacted the interest income we receive from these investments and is likely to continue to do so in the future. In addition, we grant credit under normal payment terms, generally without collateral, to our customers, which include electric power, natural gas and pipeline companies, telecommunications and cable television system operators, governmental entities, general contractors, and builders, owners and managers of commercial and industrial properties located primarily in the United States. Consequently, we are subject to potential credit risk related to changes in business and economic factors throughout the United States, which may be heightened as a result of ongoing economic downturn and volatility of the markets. However, we generally have certain statutory lien rights with respect to services provided. Under certain circumstances, such as foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. In such circumstances, extended time frames may be required to liquidate these assets, causing the amounts realized to differ from the value of the assumed receivable. Historically, some of our customers have experienced significant financial difficulties, and others may experience financial difficulties in the future. These difficulties expose us to increased risk related to collectability of receivables for services we have performed. No customer represented 10% or more of revenues during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 or 2009 or of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009 or 2008.  

 Litigation  

 We are from time to time party to various lawsuits, claims and other legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. These actions typically seek, among other things, compensation for alleged personal injury, breach of contract and/or property damages, punitive damages, civil penalties or other losses, or injunctive or declaratory relief. With respect to all such lawsuits, claims and proceedings, we record reserves when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. None of these proceedings,    

 50   
 separately or in the aggregate, are expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

 Related Party Transactions  

 In the normal course of business, we enter into transactions from time to time with related parties. These transactions typically take the form of facility leases with prior owners of certain acquired companies and payables to prior owners who are now employees.  

 Inflation  

 Due to relatively low levels of inflation experienced during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, inflation did not have a significant effect on our results.  

 New Accounting Pronouncements  

 Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements. On January 1, 2009, we adopted FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20), which requires issuers of certain convertible debt instruments to separately account for the liability and equity components in a manner that adjusts the recorded value of the convertible debt to reflect the entity’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate and interest cost at the time of issuance. The value of the debt instrument is adjusted through a discount to the face value of the debt, which is amortized as non-cash interest expense over the expected life of the debt, with an offsetting adjustment to equity to separately recognize the value of the debt instrument’s conversion feature. FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20) has been applied retrospectively to all periods presented. Accordingly, we recorded a cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle to accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2007 of approximately $29.6 million. Also included in accumulated deficit is the impact from non-cash interest expense recorded in the amounts of approximately $18.3 million ($11.8 million after tax effect) and $14.9 million ($9.6 million after tax effect) for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. In addition, we recorded non-cash interest expense during 2009 and will continue doing so until our 3.75% convertible subordinated notes are redeemable at the holders’ option in April 2013. Approximately $4.3 million ($2.8 million after tax effect) non-cash interest expense was recorded in 2009. See the tables in Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements for the impact of FSP APB 14-1 (ASC 470-20) as of December 31, 2008 and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008.  

 On January 1, 2009, we adopted FSP EITF 03-6-1, “Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities” (ASC 260, Earnings Per Share). FSP EITF 03-6-1 (ASC 260) states that unvested share-based payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and should be included in the computation of both basic and diluted earnings per share. All prior period earnings per share data presented have been adjusted retrospectively to conform to the provisions of FSP EITF 03-6-1 (ASC 260). All of our restricted stock grants have non-forfeitable rights to dividends and are considered participating securities under FSP EITF 03-6-1 (ASC 260). Prior to the retrospective application of FSP EITF 03-6-1 (ASC 260) on January 1, 2009, unvested restricted stock grants were included in the calculation of weighted average dilutive shares outstanding using the treasury stock method. Under this previous method, unvested restricted common shares were not included in the calculation of weighted average basic shares outstanding but were included in the calculation of weighted average diluted shares outstanding to the extent the grant price was less than the average share price for the respective period. The impact of the retrospective application of FSP EITF 03-6-1 (ASC 260) on earnings per share for prior periods is immaterial. Additionally, the adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 (ASC 260) had no material impact on basic and diluted income per share in the year ended December 31, 2009. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for the impact of adopting FSP EITF 03-6-1 (ASC 260) for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008.  

 In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 141(R)-1, “Accounting for Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in a Business Combination That Arise from Contingencies” (ASC 805, Business Combinations). FSP FAS 141(R)-1 (ASC 805) amends the provisions related to the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and disclosure of assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in a business combination under SFAS No. 141(R) (ASC 805) and has the same effective date as SFAS No. 141(R) (ASC 805). Accordingly, we adopted FSP    

 51   
 FAS 141(R)-1 (ASC 805) effective January 1, 2009. FSP FAS 141(R)-1 (ASC 805) carries forward the requirements in SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations,” which is now superseded, for acquired contingencies, which requires that such contingencies be recognized at fair value on the acquisition date if fair value can be reasonably estimated during the measurement period. Otherwise, companies should typically account for the acquired contingencies in accordance with SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies” (ASC 450, Contingencies). FSP FAS 141(R)-1 (ASC 805) also amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 141(R) (ASC 805) to require separate disclosure of recognized and unrecognized contingencies if certain conditions are met. We have applied the provisions of this ASC for business combinations with an acquisition date on or after January 1, 2009.  

 On January 1, 2009, we fully adopted SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures). SFAS No. 157 (ASC 820) defines fair value, establishes methods used to measure fair value and expands disclosure requirements about fair value measurements with respect to financial and non-financial assets and liabilities. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 (ASC 820) did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or disclosures. In April 2009, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-4, “Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly” (ASC 820-10-35-51), which provides additional guidance for estimating fair value when an entity determines that either the volume and/or level of activity for an asset or liability has significantly decreased. FSP FAS 157-4 (ASC 820-10-35-51) also provides guidance to identify circumstances that indicate when a transaction is not orderly. FSP FAS 157-4 (ASC 820-10-35-51) is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted in certain circumstances for periods ending after March 15, 2009. We adopted FSP FAS 157-4 (ASC 820-10-35-51) in the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The adoption of FSP FAS 157-4 (ASC 820-10-35-51) did not have any material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or disclosures.  

 During the quarter ended March 31, 2009, we adopted FSP FAS 107-1 and APB 28-1, “Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments” (ASC 825-10-65, Financial Instruments — Overall — Transition). FSP FAS 107-1 (ASC 825-10-65) requires public entities to provide the disclosures required by SFAS No. 107, “Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments” (ASC 825, Financial Instruments) on a quarterly basis and is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted in certain circumstances for periods ending after March 15, 2009. Because we have been providing these disclosures in our quarterly reports prior to the issuance of FSP FAS 107-1 (ASC 825-10-65), the adoption of FSP FAS 107-1 (ASC 825-10-65) did not have any material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or disclosures.  

 During the quarter ended March 31, 2009, we adopted FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2, “Recognition and Presentation of Other-Than-Temporary Impairments” (ASC 320-10-65-1, Investment — Debt and Equity Securities — Overall — Transition). FSP FAS 115-2 (ASC 320-10-65-1) establishes a new method of recognizing and reporting other-than-temporary impairments of debt securities. FSP FAS 115-2 (ASC 320-10-65-1) also contains additional disclosure requirements related to debt and equity securities. FSP FAS 115-2 (ASC 320-10-65-1) is effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009, with early adoption permitted in certain circumstances for periods ending after March 15, 2009. Because we have not held any debt or equity securities that would be within the scope of FSP FAS 115-2 (ASC 320-10-65-1) since its adoption, the adoption of FSP FAS 115-2 (ASC 320-10-65-1) did not have any material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or disclosures.  

 In June 2009 and February 2010, we adopted SFAS No. 165, “Subsequent Events” (ASC 855, Subsequent Events). Although SFAS No. 165 (ASC 855) should not result in significant changes in the subsequent events an entity reports, it requires enhanced disclosures related to subsequent events including the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events. SFAS No. 165 (ASC 855) is effective for interim and annual financial statements ending after June 15, 2009 and must be applied prospectively. In February 2010, the FASB amended this guidance to remove the requirement to include the date through which an entity has evaluated subsequent events.  

 On July 1, 2009, we adopted ASC 105, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. ASC 105 establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification (Codification) as the source of authoritative accounting principles recognized by the FASB to be used by non-governmental entities in the preparation of financial statements    

 52   
 presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Rules and interpretations of the SEC under the authority of federal securities laws are also sources of authoritative GAAP for SEC registrants such as us. On July 1, 2009, the Codification reorganized the pre-Codification GAAP into approximately 90 accounting topics and superseded all then-existing non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. All accounting literature not included in the Codification became non-authoritative. All of the Codification’s content carries the same level of authority, which effectively superseded SFAS No. 162. ASC 105 is effective for financial statements for interim or annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. Accordingly, we adopted ASC 105 on July 1, 2009. The adoption of ASC 105 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows but resulted in changes to the references to accounting principles in our notes to the consolidated financial statements and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted.  

 In June 2009, the FASB issued SFAS No. 166, “Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets — an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140” (ASC 860, Transfers and Servicing) and SFAS No. 167, “Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an amendment to FIN 46(R)” (ASC 810, Consolidations) Together these new standards aim to improve the visibility of off-balance sheet vehicles currently exempt from consolidation and address practice issues involving the accounting for transfers of financial assets as sales or secured borrowings. These new standards are effective as of the beginning of an entity’s fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2009, and for interim periods within that first year, with earlier adoption prohibited. Accordingly, we adopted SFAS Nos. 166 (ASC 860) and 167 (ASC 810) on January 1, 2010. We believe the impact, if any, from the adoption of SFAS Nos. 166 (ASC 860) and 167 (ASC 810) will not be material.  

 Critical Accounting Policies  

 The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities known to exist as of the date the consolidated financial statements are published and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses recognized during the periods presented. We review all significant estimates affecting our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis and record the effect of any necessary adjustments prior to their publication. Judgments and estimates are based on our beliefs and assumptions derived from information available at the time such judgments and estimates are made. Uncertainties with respect to such estimates and assumptions are inherent in the preparation of financial statements. There can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those estimates. Management has reviewed its development and selection of critical accounting estimates with the audit committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements:  

 Revenue Recognition  

 Infrastructure Services — Through our Electric Power Infrastructure Services, Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services and Telecommunications Infrastructure Services segments, we design, install and maintain networks for the electric power, natural gas and oil, telecommunications and cable television industries. These services may be provided pursuant to master service agreements, repair and maintenance contracts and fixed price and non-fixed price installation contracts. Pricing under these contracts may be competitive unit price, cost-plus/hourly (or time and materials basis) or fixed price (or lump sum basis), and the final terms and prices of these contracts are frequently negotiated with the customer. Under unit-based contracts, the utilization of an output-based measurement is appropriate for revenue recognition. Under these contracts, we recognize revenue as units are completed based on pricing established between us and the customer for each unit of delivery, which best reflects the pattern in which the obligation to the customer is fulfilled. Under our cost-plus/hourly and time and materials type contracts, we recognize revenue on an input basis, as labor hours are incurred and services are performed.   

 53   
 Revenues from fixed price contracts are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method, measured by the percentage of costs incurred to date to total estimated costs for each contract. These contracts provide for a fixed amount of revenues for the entire project. Such contracts provide that the customer accept completion of progress to date and compensate us for services rendered, measured in terms of units installed, hours expended or some other measure of progress. Contract costs include all direct materials, labor and subcontract costs and those indirect costs related to contract performance, such as indirect labor, supplies, tools, repairs and depreciation costs. Much of the materials associated with our work are owner-furnished and are therefore not included in contract revenues and costs. The cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge and experience of our engineers, project managers and financial professionals. Changes in job performance, job conditions and final contract settlements are factors that influence management’s assessment of the total estimated costs to complete those contracts and therefore, our profit recognition. Changes in these factors are periodically reviewed and may result in revisions to costs and income and their effects are recognized in the period in which the revisions are determined. Provisions for losses on uncompleted contracts are made in the period in which such losses are determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates used for revenue recognition and claim assessments, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted.  

 We may incur costs related to change orders, whether approved or unapproved by the customer, and/or claims related to certain contracts. We determine the probability that such costs will be recovered based upon evidence such as past practices with the customer, specific discussions or preliminary negotiations with the customer or verbal approvals. We treat items as a cost of contract performance in the period incurred if it is not probable that the costs will be recovered or will recognize revenue if it is probable that the contract price will be adjusted and can be reliably estimated.  

 The current asset “Costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts” represents revenues recognized in excess of amounts billed for fixed price contracts. The current liability “Billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts” represents billings in excess of revenues recognized for fixed price contracts.  

 Fiber Optic Licensing — The Fiber Optic Licensing segment constructs and licenses the right to use fiber optic telecommunications facilities to its customers pursuant to licensing agreements, typically with terms from five to twenty-five years, inclusive of certain renewal options. Under those agreements, customers are provided the right to use a portion of the capacity of a fiber optic facility, with the facility owned and maintained by us. Revenues, including any initial fees or advance billings, are recognized ratably over the expected length of the agreements, including probable renewal periods. As of December 31, 2008 and 2009, initial fees and advanced billings on these licensing agreements not yet recorded in revenue were $34.6 million and $35.9 million and are recognized as deferred revenue, with $25.1 million and $25.4 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Actual revenues may differ from those estimates if the contracts are not renewed as expected.  

 Self-Insurance. We are insured for employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation claims. As of August 1, 2009, we renewed our employer’s liability, general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation policies for the current 2009 to 2010 policy year. As a result of the renewal, the deductibles for all policies have increased to $5.0 million per occurrence, other than employer’s liability which is subject to a deductible of $1.0 million. Additionally, in connection with this renewal, the amount of letters of credit required by us to secure our obligations under our casualty insurance program, which is discussed further below, has increased. We also have employee health care benefit plans for most employees not subject to collective bargaining agreements, of which the primary plan is subject to a deductible of $350,000 per claimant per year. For policy year ended July 31, 2009, employer’s liability claims were subject to a deductible of $1.0 million per occurrence, general liability and auto liability claims were subject to a deductible of $3.0 million per occurrence, and workers’ compensation claims were subject to a deductible of $2.0 million per occurrence. Additionally, for the policy year ended July 31, 2009, our workers’ compensation claims were subject to an annual cumulative aggregate liability of up to $1.0 million on claims in excess of $2.0 million per occurrence. Our deductibles have varied in periods prior to August 1, 2008.  

 Losses under all of these insurance programs are accrued based upon our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims reported and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported, with assistance from third-party actuaries.    

 54   
 These insurance liabilities are difficult to assess and estimate due to unknown factors, including the severity of an injury, the determination of our liability in proportion to other parties, the number of incidents not reported and the effectiveness of our safety program. The accruals are based upon known facts and historical trends and management believes such accruals to be adequate. As of December 31, 2008 and 2009, the gross amount accrued for insurance claims totaled $147.9 million and $153.6 million, with $105.0 million and $109.8 million considered to be long-term and included in other non-current liabilities. Related insurance recoveries/receivables as of December 31, 2008 and 2009 were $12.5 million and $33.7 million, of which $7.2 million and $13.4 million are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $5.3 million and $20.3 million are included in other assets, net.  

 We renew our insurance policies on an annual basis, and therefore deductibles and levels of insurance coverage may change in future periods. In addition, insurers may cancel our coverage or determine to exclude certain items from coverage, or the cost to obtain such coverage may become unreasonable. In any such event, our overall risk exposure would increase, which could cause an increase in the liabilities we bear.  

 Valuation of Goodwill. We have recorded goodwill in connection with various of our acquisitions. Goodwill is subject to an annual assessment for impairment using a two-step fair value-based test, which we perform at the operating unit level. We have determined that, based on our cash flow structure and organizational structure, our individual operating units represent our reporting units for the purpose of assessing goodwill impairments. This assessment is performed annually at year-end, or more frequently if events or circumstances exist which indicate that goodwill may be impaired. For instance, a decrease in our market capitalization below book value, a significant change in business climate or a loss of a significant customer, among other things, may trigger the need for interim impairment testing of goodwill associated with one or all of our reporting units. The first step of the two-step fair value-based test involves comparing the fair value of each of our reporting units with its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed. The second step compares the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill to the implied fair value of the goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss would be recorded as a reduction to goodwill with a corresponding charge to operating expense.  

 We determine the fair value of our reporting units using a weighted combination of the discounted cash flow, market multiple and market capitalization valuation approaches, with heavier weighting on the discounted cash flow method, as in management’s opinion, this method currently results in the most accurate calculation of a reporting unit’s fair value. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit requires judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Such estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates, weighted average costs of capital and future market conditions, among others. We believe that the estimates and assumptions used in our impairment assessments are reasonable and based on available market information, but variations in any of the assumptions could result in materially different calculations of fair value and determinations of whether or not an impairment is indicated.  

 Under the discounted cash flow method, we determine fair value based on the estimated future cash flows of each reporting unit, discounted to present value using risk-adjusted industry discount rates, which reflect the overall level of inherent risk of a reporting unit and the rate of return an outside investor would expect to earn. Cash flow projections are derived from budgeted amounts and operating forecasts (typically a three-year model) plus an estimate of later period cash flows, all of which are evaluated by management. Subsequent period cash flows are developed for each reporting unit using growth rates that management believes are reasonably likely to occur along with a terminal value derived from the reporting unit’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA). The EBITDA multiples for each reporting unit are based on trailing twelve-month comparable industry data.  

 Under the market multiple and market capitalization approaches, we determine the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units by applying transaction multiples to each reporting unit’s projected EBITDA and then averaging that estimate with similar historical calculations using either a one or two year average. For the market capitalization approach, we add a reasonable control premium, which is estimated as the premium that would be received in a sale of the reporting unit in an orderly transaction between market participants.   

 55   
 The projected cash flows and estimated levels of EBITDA by reporting unit were used to determine fair value under the three approaches discussed herein. The following table presents the significant estimates used by management in determining the fair values of our reporting units at December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Quanta’s operations remain structured on an operating unit basis, with each operating unit being organized into one of three internal divisions, which are closely aligned with its operating segments and are based on the predominant type of work performed by the operating unit at the point in time when the divisional designation is made. The changes in our reportable segments during the quarters ended June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009 did not have any impact on our operating unit structure. Because separate measures of assets and cash flows are not produced or utilized by management to evaluate segment performance, Quanta’s impairment assessments of its goodwill do not include any considerations of cash flows by its reportable segments.  

 During 2007, 2008 and 2009, a goodwill analysis was performed for each operating unit with estimates and industry comparables obtained from the electric power, natural gas and pipeline, telecommunications and fiber optic licensing industries. At December 31, 2007, we did not perform a separate goodwill impairment analysis for the operating unit that provides fiber optic licensing as we had recently acquired this operating unit on August 30, 2007 in connection with our acquisition of InfraSource Services, Inc., and goodwill associated with that transaction was assessed in the aggregate. The 15-year discounted cash flow model used for fiber optic licensing was based on the long-term nature of the underlying fiber network licensing agreements.  

 We assigned a higher weighting to the discounted cash flow approach during each year to reflect increased expectations of market value being determined from a “held and used” model. At December 31, 2008 and 2009, we increased the weighting for the discounted cash flow approach as compared to December 31, 2007 due to the continued volatility of the capital markets at the end of 2008 and 2009 and the impact such volatility may have had on the accuracy of the market multiple and market capitalization approaches. Also at December 31, 2008, we increased some discount rates and decreased EBITDA multiples at reporting units to reflect potential declines in market conditions. At December 31, 2009, we further decreased EBITDA multiples at operating units to reflect potential declines in market conditions in light of the continued economic recession.  

 As stated previously, cash flows are derived from budgeted amounts and operating forecasts which have been evaluated by management. In connection with the 2009 assessment, projected growth rates by reporting unit varied widely with ranges from 0% to 20% for operating units in the electric power and the natural gas and pipeline divisions, 0% to 25% for operating units in telecommunications and 9% to 28% for the operating unit in fiber optic licensing.  

 Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. Changes in our judgments and projections could result in a significantly different estimate of the fair value of reporting units and intangible assets and could result in an impairment. Variances in the assessment of market conditions, projected cash flows, cost of capital, growth rates and acquisition multiples applied could have an impact on the assessment of impairments and any amount of goodwill impairment charges recorded. For example, lower growth rates, lower acquisition multiples or higher costs of capital assumptions would all individually lead to lower fair value assessments and potentially increased frequency or size of goodwill    

 56   
 impairments. Any goodwill or other intangible impairment would be included in the consolidated statements of operations.  

 Based on the first step of the goodwill impairment analysis, we determined that, as of December 31, 2009, the fair value of each reporting unit was in excess of its carrying value. We considered the sensitivity of these fair value estimates to changes in certain of management’s assumptions, noting that, after giving consideration to at least a 10% decrease in the fair value of each of our reporting units, the results of our assessment would not have changed. Additionally, we compared the sum of fair values of our reporting units to our market capitalization at December 31, 2009 and determined that the excess of the aggregate fair value of all reporting units to our market capitalization reflected a reasonable control premium. Further, our market capitalization at December 31, 2009 was approximately $4.3 billion, and our carrying value, including goodwill, was approximately $3.1 billion. Accordingly, we determined that there was no goodwill impairment at December 31, 2009. Increases in the carrying value of individual reporting units that may be indicated by our impairment tests are not recorded, therefore we may record goodwill impairments in the future, even when the aggregate fair value of our reporting units as a whole may increase.  

 We recognize that we and our customers are operating in a challenging business environment in light of the economic downturn and weak capital markets. We are closely monitoring our customers and the effect that changes in economic and market conditions may have on them and therefore our reporting units. Certain of our customers, in particular our electric power, telecommunications and natural gas and pipeline customers, have reduced spending in 2009, which we attribute to the negative economic and market conditions, and we anticipate that these negative conditions may continue to affect demand for some of our services in the near-term. We continue to monitor the impact of the economic environment on our reporting units and the valuation of recorded goodwill. Although we are not aware of circumstances that would lead to a goodwill impairment at a reporting unit currently, circumstances such as a continued market decline, the loss of a major customer or other factors could impact the valuation of goodwill in the future.  

 Our goodwill is included in multiple reporting units. Due to the cyclical nature of our business, and the other factors described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A, the profitability of our individual reporting units may suffer from downturns in customer demand and other factors. These factors may have a disproportionate impact on the individual reporting units as compared to Quanta as a whole and might adversely affect the fair value of the individual reporting units. If material adverse conditions occur that impact our reporting units, our future estimates of fair value may not support the carrying amount of one or more of our reporting units, and the related goodwill would need to be written down to an amount considered recoverable.  

 Valuation of Other Intangibles. Other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives are not amortized but, instead, must be tested at least annually for impairment in a manner similar to that described above for goodwill. We currently do not have any other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. However, we do have other intangible assets with definite lives. Our intangible assets include customer relationships, trade names, backlog, non-compete agreements and patented rights and developed technology. The value of customer relationships is estimated using the value-in-use concept utilizing the income approach, specifically the excess earnings method. The excess earnings analysis consists of discounting to present value the projected cash flows attributable to the customer relationships, with consideration given to customer contract renewals, the importance or lack thereof of existing customer relationships to our business plan, income taxes and required rates of return. We value backlog based upon the contractual nature of the backlog within each service line, using the income approach to discount back to present value the cash flows attributable to the backlog.  

 We amortize intangible assets based upon the estimated consumption of the economic benefits of each intangible asset or on a straight-line basis if the pattern of economic benefits consumption cannot otherwise be reliably estimated. Intangible assets subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment and are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable and its carrying amount exceeds its fair value.  

 Valuation of Long-Lived Assets. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be realizable. If an evaluation is required, the estimated    

 57   
 future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset are compared to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if an impairment of such asset is necessary. This requires us to make long-term forecasts of the future revenues and costs related to the assets subject to review. Forecasts require assumptions about demand for our products and future market conditions. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. Future events and unanticipated changes to assumptions could require a provision for impairment in a future period. The effect of any impairment would be to expense the difference between the fair value of such asset and its carrying value. Such expense would be reflected in income (loss) from operations in the consolidated statements of operations. In addition, we estimate the useful lives of our long-lived assets and other intangibles and periodically review these estimates to determine whether these lives are appropriate.  

 Current and Non-Current Accounts and Notes Receivable and Provision for Doubtful Accounts. We provide an allowance for doubtful accounts when collection of an account or note receivable is considered doubtful, and receivables are written off against the allowance when deemed uncollectible. Inherent in the assessment of the allowance for doubtful accounts are certain judgments and estimates including, among others, our customer’s access to capital, our customer’s willingness or ability to pay, general economic and market conditions and the ongoing relationship with the customer. Under certain circumstances such as foreclosures or negotiated settlements, we may take title to the underlying assets in lieu of cash in settlement of receivables. Material changes in our customers’ cash flows, which may be further impacted by the current financial crisis and volatility of the markets, could affect our ability to collect amounts due from them. Should customers experience financial difficulties or file for bankruptcy, or should anticipated recoveries relating to the receivables in existing bankruptcies or other workout situations fail to materialize, we could experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of current allowances provided.  

 Income Taxes. We follow the liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that are expected to be in effect when the underlying assets or liabilities are recovered or settled.  

 We regularly evaluate valuation allowances established for deferred tax assets for which future realization is uncertain. The estimation of required valuation allowances includes estimates of future taxable income. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We consider projected future taxable income and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. If actual future taxable income differs from our estimates, we may not realize deferred tax assets to the extent estimated.  

 We record reserves for expected tax consequences of uncertain tax positions assuming that the taxing authorities have full knowledge of the position and all relevant facts. The income tax laws and regulations are voluminous and are often ambiguous. As such, we are required to make many subjective assumptions and judgments regarding our tax positions that can materially affect amounts recognized in our future consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations.  

 Outlook  

 We and our customers are operating in a challenging business environment in light of the economic downturn and weak capital markets. As a result, many of our customers reduced spending in 2009, negatively impacting our revenues throughout the year. While we believe that economic conditions may begin to improve in the next six months and create increased demand for our services in the second half of 2010, we anticipate that the first quarter of 2010 will be challenging. We continue to be optimistic about our long-term opportunities in each of the industries we serve, and we believe that our financial and operational strengths will enable us to manage the challenges and uncertainties created by the adverse economic and market conditions.  

 Electric Power Infrastructure Services Segment  

 The North American electric grid is aging and requires significant upgrades to meet future demands for power. Over the past two years, many utilities across the country have begun to implement plans to improve their transmission and distribution systems, with a more significant focus on the upgrade and build-out of the    

 58   
 transmission grid. As a result, new construction, structure change-outs, line upgrades and maintenance projects on many transmission systems are occurring or planned. We have seen a slowdown in spending by our customers on their distribution systems, which we believe is due primarily to adverse economic and market conditions, and we expect distribution spending to remain slow during 2010. We believe, however, that utilities remain committed to the expansion and strengthening of their transmission infrastructure, and we do not expect significant delays in most of the large transmission projects. We also anticipate that utilities will continue to integrate “smart grid” technologies into their transmission and distribution systems to improve grid management and create efficiencies. However, if economic and market conditions remain stagnant or worsen, spending on these projects could be negatively affected as well. Additionally, as an indirect result of the economic downturn, overall demand for electricity has decreased, which could affect the timing and scope of transmission and distribution spending by our customers on their existing systems or planned projects. However, demand for electricity is expected to increase over the long-term, which we believe will result in increased spending and more demand for our services in the future.  

 Several existing or pending legislative or regulatory actions, as well as renewable energy initiatives, may affect demand for the services provided by this segment. For example, the American Clean Energy and Security Act (ACES Act), which was approved by the House of Representatives in June 2009 and is being reviewed by the Senate, could positively impact electric power infrastructure spending in the long-term. If enacted as proposed, the ACES Act could alleviate some of the siting and right-of-way challenges that impact transmission projects, potentially accelerating future transmission projects. A recent alliance among nine federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of Energy and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, is also intended to simplify and streamline the siting and approval process for building new transmission lines on federal lands. We also anticipate increased infrastructure spending as a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which requires the power industry to meet federal reliability standards for its transmission and distribution systems and provides further incentives to the industry to invest in and improve maintenance on its systems. In addition, we expect the construction of renewable energy facilities, including wind and solar power generation sources, to result in the need for additional transmission lines and substations. As a result of these and other factors, we expect a continued shift over the long-term in our electric power service mix to a greater proportion of high-voltage electric power transmission and substation projects, as well as opportunities to provide installation services for renewable projects. Many of these projects have a long-term horizon, and timing and scope can be negatively affected by numerous factors, including regulatory permitting, availability of funding and the effect of adverse economic and market conditions and final legislation.  

 We believe that opportunities also exist for us to provide engineering, project management and installation services for renewable projects, including wind and solar. State renewable portfolio standards, which set required or voluntary standards for how much power is required to be generated from renewable energy sources, as well as general environmental concerns, are driving the development of renewable energy projects, with a stronger focus currently on utility-scale and distributed solar projects. Tax incentives and government stimulus funds are also expected to encourage development. Additionally, the pending ACES Act includes a proposed federal renewable portfolio standard that we expect could further advance the installation of renewable generation facilities. While overall renewable energy spending has declined since the latter part of 2008, due in part to slow government funding and tight credit markets, we saw some increased spending in the fourth quarter of 2009 and we expect future spending on renewable energy initiatives to increase in 2010 and beyond, although investments could be affected by further government funding delays, as well as capital constraints if the financial markets worsen or remain stagnant. It is also not certain when or if the ACES Act and other proposed legislation will be enacted or whether the potentially beneficial provisions we highlight in this outlook will be included in the final legislation.  

 We believe that certain provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), enacted in February 2009, will also increase demand for our services over the long-term. The economic stimulus programs under the ARRA include incentives in the form of grants, loans, tax cuts and tax credits for renewable energy, energy efficiency and electric power and telecommunications infrastructure. For example, the ARRA extended tax credits for wind projects until 2012, which we expect will encourage further development in wind energy. Additionally, loan guarantee programs partially funded through the ARRA and cash grant programs have recently been implemented for renewable energy and transmission reliability and efficiency projects. For example, in October 2009, approximately    

 59   
 $3.4 billion in cash grants were awarded to foster the transition to a “smarter” electric grid. Funds provided to the states for the restoration, repair and construction of highways will also likely require the relocation and upgrade of electric power, telecommunications and natural gas infrastructure. We anticipate investments in many of these initiatives to create opportunities for our operations, although many projects are awaiting government funding. We also cannot predict with certainty the timing of the implementation of the programs that support these investments or the timing or scope of the investments once the programs are implemented.  

 Several industry and market trends are also prompting customers in the electric power industry to seek outsourcing partners. These trends include an aging utility workforce, increasing costs and labor issues. The need to ensure available labor resources for larger projects is also driving strategic relationships with customers.  

 Natural Gas and Pipeline Infrastructure Services Segment  

 We also see potential growth opportunities over the long-term in our natural gas operations, primarily in natural gas pipeline installation and maintenance and related services such as gas gathering and pipeline integrity. We believe our recent acquisition of Price Gregory, which significantly expands our natural gas services and positions us as a leading provider of transmission pipeline infrastructure services in North America, will allow us to take advantage of these opportunities. However, the natural gas industry is cyclical as a result of fluctuations in natural gas prices, and over the past twelve months, spending in this industry has been negatively impacted by lower natural gas prices, a reduction in the development of natural gas resources and capital constraints. We believe that the cyclical nature of this business can be somewhat normalized by opportunities associated with an increase in the on-going development of gas shale formations, which will require the construction of transmission infrastructure to connect production with demand centers. Additionally, we believe the goals of clean energy and energy independence for the United States will make abundant, low-cost natural gas the fuel of choice to replace coal for power generation until renewable energy becomes a significant part of the overall generation of electricity, creating the demand for additional production of natural gas and the need for related infrastructure. In the past, our natural gas operations have been challenged by lower margins overall, due in part to our natural gas distribution services that have been impacted by certain lower margin contracts and by declines in new housing construction. As a result, as evidenced by our acquisition of Price Gregory, we have primarily focused our efforts on natural gas transmission opportunities and other more profitable services, and we are optimistic about these operations in the future. However, we expect economic and market conditions as well as lower natural gas prices to continue to adversely affect this business in the near-term.  

 Telecommunications Infrastructure Services Segment  

 In connection with our telecommunications services, we believe opportunities exist as a result of various initiatives on-going by several wireline carriers and government organizations with respect to deployment of fiber to the premises (FTTP) and fiber to the node (FTTN). Such initiatives have been underway by Verizon and AT&T since 2007. In addition, other telecommunications providers and municipalities and other government jurisdictions are also active in these opportunities. Since the second quarter of 2008, however, we have experienced a decline in revenues from our telecommunications services, primarily as a result of the significant slowdown in FTTP and FTTN deployment. We expect future opportunities from certain rural broadband deployment projects to underserved and unserved areas, as stimulus funding for these projects will likely be awarded starting in 2010 to municipalities, states and rural telephone companies, some of which are long-standing customers. As a result of these factors, we expect spending on FTTP and FTTN and other broadband deployment to improve in 2010, although if economic and market conditions remain stagnant or further deteriorate, this spending could be further delayed. In connection with our wireless services, several wireless companies have announced plans to increase their cell site deployments over the next few years, including the expansion of next generation technology. In particular, the transition to 4G technology by wireless service providers will require the enhancement of their networks. We also anticipate spending by our customers on fiber optic “backhaul” to provide links from wireless cell sites to broader voice, data and video networks. We expect increased opportunities from these various plans over the long-term, with the timing and amount of spending on these plans somewhat dependent on future economic and market conditions.   

 60   
 We anticipate that the future initiatives by the telecommunication carriers will serve as a catalyst for the cable industry to begin a new network upgrade cycle to expand its service offerings in an effort to retain and attract customers; however, the timing of any upgrades is uncertain.  

 Fiber Optic Licensing Segment  

 Our Fiber Optic Licensing segment is experiencing growth primarily through geographic expansion, with a focus on markets such as education and healthcare where secure high-speed networks are important. We continue to see opportunities for growth both in the markets we currently serve and new markets, although we cannot predict the adverse impact, if any, of the ongoing economic downturn on these growth opportunities. To support the growth in this business, we anticipate the need for continued significant capital expenditures. Our Fiber Optic Licensing segment typically generates higher margins than our other operations, but we can give no assurance that the Fiber Optic Licensing segment margins will continue at historical levels.  

 Conclusion  

 Spending by our customers declined in 2009, resulting in an overall reduction in our 2009 revenues. While our customers have historically continued to spend throughout short-term economic softness or weak recessions, the longer-term recession we are experiencing has had an adverse impact on our customers’ spending. In addition, the volatility of the capital markets has negatively affected some of our customers’ plans for projects, and it may continue to do so in the future, which could delay, reduce or suspend future projects if funding is not available. It is uncertain when and to what extent the current unfavorable economic and market conditions will improve, or if they will deteriorate further. Despite reductions in capital spending by some of our customers, our revenues in certain of the industries we serve may not continue to decline significantly, as we anticipate that utilities will continue spending on projects to upgrade and build out their transmission systems and continue outsourcing more of their work, in part due to their aging workforce issues. We believe that we remain the partner of choice for many utilities in need of broad infrastructure expertise, specialty equipment and workforce resources. We also believe that, through the acquisition of Price Gregory, we are one of the largest full-service solution providers of natural gas transmission and distribution services in North America, which positions us to leverage opportunities in the natural gas industry. Furthermore, as new technologies emerge in the future for communications and digital services such as voice, video and data, telecommunications and cable service providers are expected to work quickly to deploy fast, next-generation fiber and wireless networks, and we are recognized as a key partner in deploying these services.  

 With the growth in several of our markets and our margin enhancement initiatives, we expect to continue to see our gross margins generally improve over the long-term, although reductions in spending by our customers could further negatively affect our margins, with the most significant impact to our telecommunications operations and natural gas and electric power distribution services. Additionally, gross margins may be negatively impacted on a quarterly basis due to adverse weather conditions and other factors as described in “Understanding Margins” above. We continue to focus on the elements of the business we can control, including costs, the margins we accept on projects, collecting receivables, ensuring quality service and rightsizing initiatives to match the markets we serve. These initiatives include aligning our workforce with our current revenue base, evaluating opportunities to reduce the number of field offices and evaluating our non-core assets for potential sale. Such initiatives could result in future charges related to, among other things, severance, retention, the shutdown and consolidation of facilities, property disposal and other exit costs.  

 Capital expenditures for 2010 are expected to be approximately $215 million, of which approximately $70 million of these expenditures are targeted for fiber optic network expansion with the majority of the remaining expenditures for operating equipment. We expect 2010 capital expenditures to continue to be funded substantially through internal cash flows and cash on hand.  

 We continue to evaluate other potential strategic acquisitions or investments to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic area of operation and grow our portfolio of services. We believe that additional attractive acquisition candidates exist primarily as a result of the highly fragmented nature of the industry, the inability of many companies to expand and modernize due to capital constraints and the desire of owners for liquidity. We also believe that our financial strength and experienced management team will be attractive to acquisition candidates.   

 61   
 We believe that we are adequately positioned to capitalize upon opportunities and trends in the industries we serve because of our proven full-service operating units with broad geographic reach, financial capability and technical expertise. Additionally, we believe that these industry opportunities and trends will increase the demand for our services over the long-term; however, we cannot predict the actual timing, magnitude or impact these opportunities and trends will have on our operating results and financial position, especially in light of the economic downturn and weak capital markets.  

 Uncertainty of Forward-Looking Statements and Information  

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes “forward-looking statements” reflecting assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions or beliefs about future events that are intended to qualify for the “safe harbor” from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “project,” “forecast,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “expect,” “believe,” “plan,” “intend” and other words of similar meaning. In particular, these include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve or rely on a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or beyond our control. We have based our forward-looking statements on our management’s beliefs and assumptions based on information available to our management at the time the statements are made. We caution you that actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed, implied or forecasted by our forward-looking statements and that any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. Those statements can be affected by inaccurate assumptions and by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, including the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 62   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 63   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements or that are otherwise included in this report. In addition, we do not undertake and expressly disclaim any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report or otherwise.  

  ITEM 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk