ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

RISK MANAGEMENT

We have established a risk committee comprised of senior level leadership from our financial, strategic, governance, administrative and operational functions. The risk committee’s responsibilities include performing an annual review to assess and prioritize the Company’s risks in coordination with our subject matter experts, assessing the status and effectiveness of risk prevention and mitigation activities, identifying emerging risks and facilitate management’s development of risk assessment and management practices. The risk committee is also responsible for assessing and advising management on our system of controls to ensure policies and procedures are properly followed and appropriate accountability is present. Our controls are designed to:

•create and maintain a comprehensive risk management framework;

•provide for authorization by the appropriate levels of management;

•provide for segregation of duties;

  December 31, 2016 | 57

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES  

•maintain appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and

•implement key indicators to measure the performance of hedging activities.

The risk committee meets at least monthly to review priority and emerging risks and risk prevention and mitigation activities. In addition, our risk committee chairman presents a quarterly risk update to executive management and an annual update to our Board of Directors concerning the status and effectiveness of our risk prevention and mitigation activities, emerging risks and risk assessment and management practices.

COMMODITY PRICE RISKS

Our primary source of market risk emanates from the difference between the sale prices for our refined products and the purchase prices for crude oil and other feedstocks. Refined product prices are directly influenced by the price of crude oil. Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin, relative to fixed and variable expenses (including the costs of crude oil and other feedstocks) at which we are able to sell our refined products. The prices of crude oil and refined products fluctuate substantially and depend on many factors including the global supply and demand for crude oil and refined products. This demand is impacted by changes in the global economy, the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil, natural gas and refined products, geo-political conditions, the availability of imports of crude oil and refined products, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, the marketing of alternative and competing fuels and the impact of government regulations. Our refined product sale prices are also affected by local factors such as local market conditions and the level of operations of other suppliers in our markets.

In most cases, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil results in a corresponding increase or decrease in the price of gasoline and other refined products. The timing, direction and the overall change in refined product prices versus crude oil prices could have a significant impact on our profit margins, earnings and cash flows. Assuming all other factors remained constant, a $1 per barrel change in average gross refining margins, based on our average throughput of 825 Mbpd, would change annualized pre-tax operating income by approximately $300 million. This analysis may differ from actual results.

We maintain inventories of crude oil, intermediate products and refined products, the values of which are subject to fluctuations in market prices. The valuation of our inventories can significantly impact amounts reported in our balance sheet where changes therein can then impact amounts recorded in our results of operations. Our inventories of refinery feedstocks and refined products totaled 45 million barrels and 48 million barrels at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Since market prices declined to a level below the average cost of our inventories, we recorded a net lower of cost or market inventory adjustment (charge to earnings and reduction in inventory carrying value) of $359 million as of December 31, 2015. There was no net lower of cost or market inventory adjustment as of December 31, 2016. Due to the increase in market prices in 2016, as of December 31, 2016, we fully reversed the lower of cost or market reserve to zero and, as a result, we recognized a gain of $359 million in our results of operations during 2016.

We use non-trading physical derivative instruments to manage exposure to commodity price risks associated with the purchase or sale of crude oil and finished products and inventories above or below our target levels. We also use these instruments to manage the impact of market volatility and arbitrage opportunities for crude oil where the price of crude oil is higher in the future than the current spot price. For the purchase or sale of crude oil and finished products to be used in our normal operations, we enter into physical commodity forward purchase and sale contracts (“Forward Contracts”), which are not typically classified and reported as derivatives for accounting purposes. The gains or losses associated with these Forward Contracts are recognized as incurred in our financial statements separate from the gains or losses associated with other derivative instruments reported below and in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

Also, we entered into financial derivative contracts such as exchange-traded futures, over-the-counter swaps, options and over-the-counter options, most of which had remaining durations of less than one year as of December 31, 2016, to economically hedge price risk associated with our physical commodity Forward Contracts or to take advantage of other market opportunities. We mark-to-market these derivative instruments each period during the contract term, which can create timing differences for gain or loss recognition in our financial statements. The derivative gains or losses presented below do not reflect the realized losses or gains, respectively, from the settlement of our physical commodity transactions. Both the derivative and the physical commodity Forward Contracts’ gains and losses are reflected in our gross refining margin in the refining segment. We evaluate our performance based on all contract types available to manage our risk, which includes contracts that may or may not be classified and reported as derivatives for accounting purposes.

58 | Tesoro Corporation  

 QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES 

We believe the governance structure that we have in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of our commodity optimization, inventory management and trading activities. Our governance over commodity activities includes regular monitoring of the performance of our risk management strategies and limits over dollar and volume based transactional authority, commodity position, aggregate spread, stop-loss and value-at-risk. Performance against our strategies and authorized limits is monitored daily via position reports and profit and loss analysis and is reviewed on a regular basis, at least monthly, by our risk committee.

COMPOSITION OF NET GAIN (LOSS) ON OUR COMMODITY DERIVATIVE POSITIONS (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our open derivative positions at December 31, 2016 will expire at various times through 2018. We prepared a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk associated with our derivative instruments. Based on our open net positions at December 31, 2016, a 1% change in quoted market prices of our derivative instruments, assuming all other factors remain constant, could change the fair value of our derivative instruments and pre-tax operating income by approximately $4 million. This analysis may differ from actual results.

With the exception of a small amount of condensate and pipeline loss allowances, TLLP is not exposed to commodity price risk with respect to any of the crude oil, natural gas, NGLs or refined products that are handled. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our Keep-Whole Commodity Agreement.

COUNTERPARTY CREDIT RISK

We have exposure to concentrations of credit risk related to our counterparties’ ability to meet their contractual payment obligations, and the potential non-performance by counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. Customer concentrations within the refining industry and oil and gas producers may affect our overall exposure to counterparty risk because these customers may be similarly impacted by changes in economic or other conditions. In addition, financial services companies are the counterparties in certain of our price risk management activities, and such financial services companies could be adversely impacted by periods of uncertainty and illiquidity in the credit or capital markets. We have credit management processes in place by which we closely monitor the status of our counterparties by performing ongoing credit evaluations of their financial condition. In certain circumstances, we require prepayments, letters of credit or other credit enhancement.

INTEREST RATE RISK

Our use of fixed or variable-rate debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt, such as our senior notes, exposes us to changes in the fair value of our debt due to changes in market interest rates. Fixed rate debt also exposes us to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates or that our current fixed rate debt may be higher than the current market. Variable-rate debt, such as borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, exposes us to short-term changes in market rates that impact our interest expense. The fair value of our debt was estimated primarily using quoted market prices. The carrying and fair values of our debt were approximately $7.0 billion and $7.3 billion at December 31, 2016, respectively, and approximately $4.1 billion for both the carrying and fair values at December 31, 2015. These carrying and fair values of our debt do not consider the unamortized issuance costs, which are netted against our total debt. Unless interest rates increase significantly in the future, our exposure to interest rate risk should be minimal. With all other variables constant, a 0.25% change in the interest rate associated with the borrowings outstanding would change annual interest expense by less than $1 million under any of our variable-rate debt. We currently do not use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate risk; however, we continue to monitor the market and our exposure, and may in the future enter into these transactions to mitigate risk. We believe in the short-term we have acceptable interest rate risk and continue to monitor the risk on our long-term obligations. There were no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility and TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility, and $330 million borrowings outstanding under the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2016.

  December 31, 2016 | 59

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA