ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

Our proposed acquisition of Western Refining is subject to significant risks and uncertainties. 

As described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have entered into a merger agreement, dated as of November 16, 2016, with Western Refining, Inc. (“Western Refining”) pursuant to which, on the terms and subject to the conditions included therein, we have agreed to acquire Western Refining. Our ability to complete the proposed acquisition on a timely basis or at all is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following:

•we may not obtain required shareholder approval;

•we may not obtain required regulatory approvals or receipt of regulatory approvals may take longer than expected or may impose conditions to the proposed acquisition that are not presently anticipated or cannot be met; 

•conditions to the proposed acquisition may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all; or

•unforeseen events and those beyond our control.

The proposed acquisition also subjects us to business uncertainties while it is pending and places other restrictions on our business, including, without limitation:

•our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the proposed acquisition is completed and for a period of time thereafter;

•our ability to maintain our relationships with our customers and other third parties we transact with, who may seek to change their existing business relationships with us as a result of the proposed acquisition; and

•restrictions imposed on us under the merger agreement that prohibit us from entering into certain corporate transactions and taking other specified actions without the consent of Western Refining, which may prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that may arise prior to the completion of the acquisition.

We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant transaction and acquisition-related costs associated with the proposed acquisition. These, as well as other unanticipated costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Combining our businesses may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected. Integration involves numerous challenges, including our ability to integrate our businesses in an efficient and timely manner, integrate our systems and controls as well as integrate our relationships with our customers, suppliers, employees and other third parties. The integration process may, for us and Western Refining, result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies.

The success of the proposed acquisition will depend on, among other things, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our and Western Refining’s businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies and costs savings. These anticipated benefits and cost savings may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected or could have other adverse effects that we do not currently foresee.

The volatility of crude oil prices, refined product prices and natural gas and electrical power prices may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and results of operations.

Our refining margins are influenced by the price of our refining feedstocks-crude oil and other feedstocks-and the price of our refined products. These prices often move independently of each other, which can negatively impact our margins, earnings or cash flows. In recent years, prices have fluctuated significantly due to global and local factors that are beyond our control, including:

•production and availability of foreign and domestic crude oil and refined products;

•production controls set and maintained by the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries;

•transportation infrastructure availability, local market conditions, operation levels of other refineries in our markets, and the import or export of crude and refined products;

•political instability, threatened or actual terrorist incidents, acts of war, and other global political conditions;

•domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;

•the price, availability and efficiency of competing energy sources;

•local, regional, national and worldwide economic conditions; and

•weather conditions, hurricanes or other natural disasters.

16 | Tesoro Corporation  

  RISK FACTORS

Some of these factors can vary by region and may change quickly, adding to market volatility, while others may have longer-term effects. The long-term effects of these and other factors on prices for crude oil, refinery feedstocks and refined products are uncertain and could negatively impact our margins, earnings or financial condition.

The short-term effects of these fluctuations could affect our margins, earnings and cash flows. We purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. Price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the refined products could affect our margins, earnings or cash flows. In addition, we purchase refined products manufactured by others to sell to our customers. If we are unable to manage our commodity exposure risk, it could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lower refining margins may reduce the amount of refined products we produce, which may reduce our revenues, income from operations or cash flows. Significant reductions in margins could require us to reduce our capital expenditures or impair the carrying value of our assets.

Volatile prices for natural gas and electricity used by our refineries and other operations affect manufacturing and operating costs. Natural gas and electricity prices have been, and will continue to be, affected by supply and demand for fuel and utility services in both local and regional markets. In addition, the volume of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and NGLs that TLLP distributes and stores at its terminals, transports and processes depends substantially on our and other customers’ profit margins, the market price of crude oil, natural gas, NGLs and other refinery feedstocks, and product demand.

A substantial change to fiscal or tax policies may adversely affect our business.

Recent events have given rise to a heightened possibility of a substantial change to fiscal and tax policies, which may include comprehensive tax reform. We cannot predict the impact these changes will have on our business; however, it is possible that these changes could adversely affect our business, our cash flows, our profitability, and our ability to compete domestically and internationally. Until we know what changes are enacted, we will not know the type or extent of the effects on our business.

We may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future, or in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisition.

If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions into our business, we may never realize their expected benefits. With each acquisition, we may discover unexpected costs, environmental liabilities, delays, or lower than expected cost savings or synergies. In addition, we may be unable to successfully integrate the diverse company cultures, retain key personnel, apply our expertise to new competencies, or react to adverse changes in commodity prices or industry conditions.

We cannot predict with certainty the benefits of these acquisitions, which often constitute multi-year endeavors. For example, our proposed acquisition of Western Refining is uncertain and, if completed, will require substantial capital during 2017 and later years. If we are unable to realize all or part of the projected benefits from this or other acquisitions within our expected timeframes, our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer.

We are subject to interruptions of supply and increased costs as a result of our reliance on logistics assets for the transportation of crude oil, feedstocks and refined products within our business.

Our subsidiaries own and operate seven refineries in the western United States, which refine crude oil and other feedstocks into refined products for sale to a wide variety of markets. We rely on a variety of logistics assets to transport crude oil, feedstocks and refined products, including, but not limited to, marine vessels, marine terminals, rail, pipelines, product terminals, storage tanks and trucks. Some of these assets are owned and operated by third-parties. In particular, losing access to certain assets owned by TLLP could halt production at some of our refineries. Accidents, natural disasters, government regulation, third-party actions or other events outside of our control could impede our use or increase the cost of using these assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Adverse changes in global economic conditions and the demand for transportation fuels may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict.

Our business is affected by the strength of the U.S. and global economies, and the risk of global economic downturn continues. Prolonged downturns could result in declines in consumer and business confidence and spending as well as increased unemployment and reduced demand for transportation fuels. These conditions may decrease the creditworthiness of our suppliers, customers and business partners, which could interrupt or delay our suppliers’ performance of our contracts, reduce or delay customer purchases, delay or prevent customers from obtaining financing to purchase our products, or result in bankruptcy of customers or business partners. Any of these events may adversely affect our cash flow, profitability and financial condition.

  December 31, 2016 | 17

RISK FACTORS  

Our business includes selling products in international markets, and we are subject to risks of doing business on a global level.

We sell some of our products internationally, primarily to markets in Mexico, South America and Asia. Our operating results or financial condition could be negatively impacted by disruptions in any of these markets, including economic instability, restrictions on the transfer of funds, duties and tariffs, transportation delays, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest and changing regulatory and political environments. In addition, if trade relationships deteriorate with these countries, if existing trade agreements are modified or terminated, or if taxes, border adjustments or tariffs make trading with these countries more costly, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

The availability and cost of renewable identification numbers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

The RFS2 requires refiners to add annually increasing amounts of “renewable fuels” to their petroleum products or to purchase credits, known as renewable identification numbers (“RINs”), in lieu of such blending. Due to regulatory uncertainty and in part due to the nation’s fuel supply approaching the “blend wall” (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price and availability of RINs has been volatile.

While we generate RINs by blending renewable fuels manufactured by third parties, we purchase RINs on the open market to comply with the RFS2. We cannot predict the future prices of RINs, and the costs to obtain the necessary RINs could be material. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to pass the cost of compliance on to our customers, pay significantly higher prices for RINs, and generate or purchase RINs to meet RFS2 mandated standards.

Meeting the requirements of, including the cost to comply with evolving environmental, health and safety laws and regulations including those related to climate change could materially affect our performance, financial condition and results of operations.

Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations may continue to raise our operating costs and require significant capital investments. If we discover new conditions at our facilities that require remediation, or if environmental, health and safety, and energy requirements change materially, we could be required to increase our capital expenditures, which could negatively impact our financial condition. We cannot predict developments in federal or state laws or regulations governing environmental, health and safety or energy matters, or how these changes may affect our business or financial condition.

Currently, multiple legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) and other emissions are in various phases of consideration, promulgation or implementation. These include actions to develop national, statewide or regional programs, each of which could require reductions in our greenhouse gas or other emissions and decrease the demand for our refined products. Requiring reductions in these emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities and (iii) administer and manage any emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments. For example:

•In California, the state legislature adopted SB 32 in 2016. SB 32 set a cap on emissions of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030 but did not establish a particular mechanism to achieve that target. The legislature also adopted a companion bill -AB 197 that most significantly directs the California Air Resources Board to prioritize direct emission reductions on large stationary sources. While AB 197 does not specifically preclude a market mechanism, it is expected to result in future regulations that will target greenhouse gas reductions at refineries, in addition to the mandates imposed by the existing cap and trade and low carbon fuel standard programs created by AB 32. AB 32 requires the state to reduce its greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. Two regulations implemented to achieve this goal are Cap-and-Trade and the Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“LCFS”). In 2012, the California Air Resource Board implemented Cap-and-Trade. This program currently places a cap on GHGs and we are required to acquire a sufficient number of credits to cover emissions from our refineries and our in-state sales of gasoline, diesel, and some LPGs. In 2009, CARB adopted the LCFS, which requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel by 2020. Compliance is demonstrated by blending lower carbon intensity biofuels into gasoline and diesel or by purchasing credits. Compliance with each of these programs is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. If we are unable to pass the costs of compliance on to our customers, sufficient credits are unavailable for purchase, we have to pay a significantly higher price for credits, or if we are otherwise unable to meet our compliance obligation, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

•In California, the Board for the South Coast Air Quality Management District passed amendments to the RECLAIM on December 4, 2015. The RECLAIM Amendments became effective in 2016 and require a staged reduction of NOx through 2022.

18 | Tesoro Corporation  

  RISK FACTORS

•The EPA adopted a new rule in 2015 requiring further reductions in the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone.

In addition, pre-rulemaking is underway in California to implement the recommendations made in 2014 by the Governor’s Interagency Refinery Safety Working Group to significantly expand the scope and requirements of California’s process safety management regulations. The final requirements could have a material impact on our cash flows, profitability and financial condition.

Regulatory and other requirements concerning the transportation of crude oil and other commodities by rail may cause increases in transportation costs or limit the amount of crude that we can transport by rail.

We rely on a variety of systems to transport crude oil, including rail. In 2012, we completed the construction of a 50 Mbpd crude oil rail car unloading facility in Anacortes, Washington (the “Anacortes Rail Facility”), which TLLP subsequently acquired from us. The Anacortes Rail Facility allows us to receive crude oil into our Anacortes refinery. We have also entered into a joint venture with Savage Companies to construct, own and operate a unit train unloading and marine loading terminal at the Port of Vancouver, USA. The construction of the terminal is subject to approval by regulatory agencies and will have a capacity up to 360 Mbpd.

In 2015 the U.S. Department of Transportation issued new standards and regulations applicable to crude-by-rail transportation (Enhanced Tank Car Standards and Operational Controls for High-Hazard Flammable Trains). These or other regulations could increase the time required to move crude oil from production areas to our refineries, increase the cost of rail transportation and decrease the efficiency of shipments of crude oil by rail within our operations. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business, and the failure of any critical information system, including a cyber-security breach, may result in harm to our reputation and business.

We depend heavily on our technology infrastructure and critical information systems, including data networks, telecommunications, remote connectivity, cloud-based information controls, software applications and hardware, including those that are critical to operating our refineries, pipelines, terminals, retail stations and other business operations. In addition, we collect sensitive data, including personally identifiable information of our customers using credit cards at our retail outlets.

We are in the process of completing the enterprise resource planning project (see further discussion in Item 7) which aims to simplify business processes by implementing a standardized and scalable technology platform. Large information systems and business process transformations such as this one are complex and require significant investments in system software, business process development and employee resources. Our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if we experience operating problems, scheduling delays, cost overages or service limitations. Additionally, we may not achieve all of the expected synergies with this project which may impact our ability to achieve the project’s objectives.

Our technology infrastructure and information systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, software viruses or other malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, employee error or malfeasance, and other events. Although we have experienced actual or attempted breaches of our cybersecurity, none of these breaches have had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation (or compromised any customer data). However, no cybersecurity or emergency recovery processes is failsafe, and if our safeguards fail or our data or technology infrastructure is compromised, the safety and efficiency of our operations could be materially harmed, our reputation could suffer, and we could be subject us to additional costs, liabilities, and costly legal challenges, including those involving privacy of customer data. Any of these outcomes could materially harm our business and operations. Finally, state and federal legislation relating to cybersecurity could impose new requirements, which could increase our costs or reduce our efficiency.

Disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil could adversely affect our operations, revenue and cash flow.

To maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. A material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries as a result of decreased exploration and production activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. Such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and a corresponding reduction in our revenue and cash flow.

In addition, many of our logistics agreements contain minimum volume commitments. If we do not satisfy the minimum volume commitments, we will still be responsible for payment for transportation and storage services as if we had utilized such minimum volumes.

  December 31, 2016 | 19

RISK FACTORS  

Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business.

The U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, including the nation’s refining, pipeline and terminal infrastructure, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. Any future terrorist attacks on our facilities, those of our customers, or on any transportation networks, including pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.

Our inventory risk management activities may result in substantial derivative variability or losses.

We enter into derivative transactions to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products, natural gas, and other feedstocks associated with our physical inventories and future production, and these may result in substantial derivatives variability or losses, which could increase the volatility of our earnings. We manage price risk on inventories above or below our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. Consequently, our results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. These transactions may also expose us to risks for financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreement fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. See Item 7A.

Competition in the refining, logistics and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability.

We compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. Competitors with greater geographic diversity, larger or more complex refineries, integrated operations with exploration and productions resources and broader access to resources, may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions and to bear the risks inherent in the refining industry. For example, competitors that engage in exploration and production of crude oil may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. Our competitors’ recent consolidations and acquisitions and their plans for projects that could increase refining capacity or efficiency could increase competition in our markets, reduce our margins and affect our cash flow.

In addition, we compete with alternative energy and fuel producers for some industrial, commercial and individual consumers. There is significant governmental and consumer pressure to increase the use of alternative fuels and vehicles in the United States. If these alternative energy sources gain support as a result of governmental regulations and subsidies, technological advances, consumer demand, or other causes, they could impact demand for our products and our financial condition.

Our operations are subject to operational hazards that could expose us to potentially significant losses.

Refineries, gas processing plants, pipelines, rail cars, terminals and other components of our business are subject to potential operational hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, natural gas, refined products and waste. Operational hazards, such as fires, floods, earthquakes, explosions, third-party accidents, maritime disasters, security breaches, pipeline ruptures and spills, mechanical failure of equipment, severe weather and other natural disasters, at our or third-party facilities, could result in business interruptions or shutdowns and damage to our properties and the properties of others. A serious accident at our facilities could also result in serious injury or death to our employees or contractors and could expose us to significant liability for personal injury claims and reputational risk. These events could create significant liabilities that are outside the limits or scope or our insurance policies, and could expose us to penalties under federal, state and local laws. The costs that we could have to pay in penalties or for clean-up, remediation and damages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Any such unplanned event or shutdown could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, we operate in and adjacent to environmentally sensitive coastal waters where tanker, pipeline, rail car and refined product transportation and storage operations are closely regulated by federal, state and local agencies and monitored by environmental interest groups. Our coastal refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by tanker. In addition, our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks by rail car and truck. Transportation and storage of crude oil, other feedstocks and refined products over and adjacent to water involves inherent risk and subjects us to the provisions of the Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and state laws in California, Washington and Alaska. If we are unable to promptly and adequately contain any accident or discharge involving tankers, pipelines, rail cars or above ground storage tanks transporting or storing crude oil, other feedstocks or refined products, we may be subject to substantial liability. In addition, the service providers we have contracted to aid us in a discharge response may be unavailable due to weather conditions, governmental regulations or other local or global events. State or federal rulings could divert our response resources to other global events.

20 | Tesoro Corporation  

  RISK FACTORS

We are also required to ensure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks and pipeline connections. If our quality control measures were to fail or be compromised, we may have contaminated or off-specification products commingled in our pipelines and storage tanks that could be sent to customers and other end users. These types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers or other pipelines to which our pipelines connect. These product liability claims may have a material adverse effect on our business or results or operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers.

We do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses. Marine vessel charter agreements may not provide complete indemnity for oil spills, and any marine charterer’s liability insurance we carry may not cover all losses. If a loss event is not fully covered by insurance or if our insurers fail to honor their coverage commitments for an insured event or if our counterparties fail to honor any indemnification agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Our operations are also subject to general environmental risks, expenses and liabilities, which could affect our results of operations.

From time to time we have been, and presently are, subject to litigation and investigations with respect to environmental and related matters, including product liability claims related to the oxygenate methyl tertiary butyl ether. We may become involved in further litigation or other civil or criminal proceedings, or we may be held responsible in any existing or future litigation or proceedings, the costs of which could be material.

We operate and have in the past operated retail stations with underground storage tanks in various jurisdictions. Federal and state regulations and legislation govern the storage tanks, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. The operation of underground storage tanks poses certain risks, including leaks. Leaks from underground storage tanks, which may occur at one or more of our retail stations, or which may have occurred at our previously operated retail stations, may impact soil or groundwater and could result in fines or civil liability for us.

Large capital projects can take several years to complete, and if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, or if market conditions deteriorate significantly between the project approval date and the project startup date, our results of operations, cash flows or project returns could be adversely impacted.

We are constructing several new projects and expanding existing ones, such as the construction of the Vancouver Energy Project and the Clean Product Upgrade Project. The construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control. If we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds because construction or expansion may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any material increases in revenues until after substantial completion of the project.

To approve a large-scale capital project, the project must meet an acceptable level of return on the capital to be employed in the project. We base these economic projections on our best estimate of future market conditions that are not within our control. Most large-scale projects take many years to complete and during this multi-year period, market conditions can change from those we forecast due to changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and changes in customer demand. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize our expected returns from a large investment in a capital project, and this could negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and return on capital employed.

Because of our debt obligations, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted by a deterioration of our credit profile, a decrease in debt capacity or unsecured commercial credit available to us, or by factors adversely affecting credit markets generally.

At December 31, 2016, our total debt obligations for borrowed money and capital lease obligations were $7.0 billion. We may incur substantial additional debt obligations in the future.

Our indebtedness may impose various restrictions and covenants on us that could have material adverse consequences, including:

•increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions;

•limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;

•limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders;

•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and

  December 31, 2016 | 21

RISK FACTORS  

•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes.

Refining optimization requires precise inventory management, which we perform through combinations of working capital and debt. A decrease in our debt or commercial credit capacity, including unsecured credit extended by third-party suppliers, or a deterioration in our credit profile, could increase our costs of borrowing money or limit our access to the capital markets and commercial credit, which could affect our ability to manage our inventory or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

Our business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes by our employees, as well as new labor requirements.

As of December 31, 2016, approximately 2,090 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements at our Anacortes, Mandan, Martinez, Los Angeles and Salt Lake City refineries. The agreements for approximately 1,750 of these employees will expire on February 1, 2019, agreements for approximately 80 others will expire on March 1, 2017, and agreements for the remaining represented employees expire on May 1, 2019. A strike, work stoppage or other labor action could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

In addition, California requires refinery owners to pay prevailing wages to contract craft workers and restricts refiners’ ability to hire qualified employees to a limited pool of applicants. Legislation or changes in regulations (e.g. the U.S. Department of Labor’s recent interpretation regarding joint employers/independent contractors) could result in labor shortages higher labor costs, and an increased risk that contract employees become joint employees of Tesoro, which could trigger bargaining issues, employment discrimination liability issues as well as wage and benefit consequences, especially during critical maintenance and construction periods.

Ownership of the general partner of TLLP may involve a greater exposure to legal liability than our historic business operations.

One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of TLLP. Our control of the general partner may increase the possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties including claims of conflicts of interest related to TLLP. Any liability resulting from such claims could have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES