ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following information concerning our results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with Items 1 and 2 and our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis is our analysis of our financial performance, financial condition and significant trends that may affect future performance. All statements in this section, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements that are inherently uncertain. See “Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in these statements.

BUSINESS STRATEGY AND OVERVIEW

In recent years, we have implemented strategies to transform the composition of our portfolio of refining, logistics and marketing assets. In 2010, the majority of our operating income was generated through our Refining segment with only a small portion attributable to our previous retail segment and we did not have commercial logistics operations. As of 2016, Tesoro Logistics, LP (“TLLP”) has grown significantly and our Marketing segment continues to expand at a steady rate as a percentage of contribution to our consolidated operating income. We are committed to further integrating our business model, improving our value chain optimization and continuing to diversify our portfolio amongst our segments and be a leader among our independent refining peers. To help us achieve this strategy, organic growth and growth by acquisition are key contributors. See our Capital Expenditures discussion within the Capital Resources and Liquidity section for more on our organic growth strategy. 

On November 16, 2016, Tesoro entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Western Refining, Inc. (“Western Refining”) and other Tesoro wholly-owned subsidiaries (the “Merger”). Western Refining has

•three refineries in Texas, New Mexico and Minnesota with a total refining capacity of approximately 254 Mbpd, which would expand the combined company’s operational capabilities and improve our access to advantaged crude oil and extended product regions;

•three premium and value retail and convenience store brands to better serve a broader customer base and regional preferences; and

•an extensive and complementary logistics network with access to advantaged crude oil basins, including the Permian. 

The completion of the Merger is expected in the first half of 2017, subject to certain customary mutual conditions and regulatory approval. We believe the Merger aligns with the strategic objectives for our refining, marketing and logistics businesses, which are discussed below. Per the registration statement on Form S-4, which was declared effective February 16, 2017, the transaction was valued at approximately $4.1 billion consisting of stock and cash consideration. See Note 2 in Part II, Item 8 for more details about the Merger. 

STRATEGY AND GOALS

As the leading integrated refining, marketing and logistics company in our strategic foot print, we are driven to create value by driving significant business improvements to provide for sustainable earnings growth, utilizing a disciplined approach to capital allocation to create significant long-term shareholder value and consistently executing on our goals in the delivery of results. Our diversified and integrated portfolio of assets and operations provides us with strong growth opportunities across the refining, marketing and logistics value chain. The following discussion outlines how we create value in each of our business segments. 

REFINING. In our Refining segment, our strategy focuses on our ability to access regionally advantaged crude oil, optimize our system-wide value chain to drive strong gross refining margin capture, drive operational excellence enabling asset availability in excess of 97% and deliver other annual improvement objectives discussed in the Market Conditions and Performance Objectives section below. To meet our strategic objectives, we invest in high return capital projects designed to enhance our feedstock flexibility, improve our yields and lower our costs. See the Capital Expenditures section for discussion of major capital projects in development or in process.

TLLP. Through our ownership of TLLP and TLLP’s continued growth, we expect our logistics assets and in-region placement to minimize our transportation costs and maximize our overall performance by focusing on a stable, fee-based business, optimizing its existing asset base, pursuing organic expansion opportunities and growing through strategic acquisitions. Additionally, our ownership in TLLP creates value to our shareholders through the lower cost of capital available to TLLP as a limited partnership and our receipt of TLLP’s quarterly distributions. As the distributions per unit increase, our proportion of the total distributions grow at an accelerated rate due to our incentive distribution rights. For example, we received $245 million in distributions from TLLP during 2016 compared to $148 million and $87 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively. We believe TLLP is well positioned 

  December 31, 2016 | 27

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

to achieve its primary business objectives and execute business strategies based on its long-term fee-based contracts, relationship with us, strategically positioned assets and financial flexibility provided by its balanced capital structure, revolving credit facility capacity, dropdown credit facility, ability to access equity capital markets through its continuous issuance program and financial support from us.

MARKETING. Our marketing assets provide a secure and ratable offtake of high value gasoline and diesel production from our refineries. We are driving growth and improvements in our Marketing segment by focusing on higher value, branded distribution channels, adding new retail sites to our network, and implementing store improvements, to enhance our convenience store position.

Underpinning our strategy and goals for all of our businesses is a high performing culture where every employee leads according to our guiding principles and has the opportunity to make a difference. These guiding principles are as follows:

•CORE VALUES – We act individually and collectively with the highest level of integrity and we are steadfast in our commitment to safety, health and the environment.

•EXCEPTIONAL PEOPLE – We employ the best people and develop our capabilities and leadership to realize our objectives.

•SHARED PURPOSE – Everyone clearly understands and owns our vision, strategy, how they fit and what they are expected to contribute.

•POWERFUL COLLABORATION – We leverage the power of collaboration and our individual and collective expertise to create value and competitive advantage.

•SUPERIOR EXECUTION – We pursue and deliver our objectives with energy, passion and a sense of urgency to deliver industry-leading results.

By following our guiding principles, we aim to achieve strategic priorities that are focused on the delivery of operational efficiency and effectiveness, value chain optimization, financial discipline, and value-driven growth. In addition, we take a principles-based approach to conducting our business, seeking to create shared value for key stakeholders including employees, communities, business partners, government and the environment. 

STRATEGIC PRIORITIES       

OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY & EFFECTIVENESS

continuously improving safety, compliance, reliability, system improvements and cost leadership 

HIGH PERFORMING CULTURE

fostering a culture that is committed to building leadership at all levels of the organization and across our value chain with employees from diverse backgrounds and experiences while being firmly

 grounded in our guiding principles        

VALUE CHAIN OPTIMIZATION

enhancing margin capture through our supply and trading activities, optimization of our integrated businesses and customer focus 

FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE

maintaining a strong financial position by exercising capital discipline and focusing on a balanced use of free cash flow 

VALUE-DRIVEN GROWTH

extending our capabilities and growing earnings through growth in our logistics and marketing businesses and other strategic opportunities accretive to shareholder value 

28 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

The following table outlines how significant accomplishments during 2016 align with our strategic priorities:

SIGNIFICANT ACCOMPLISHMENTS DURING 2016

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  December 31, 2016 | 29

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

MARKET CONDITIONS AND PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES

Our year-over-year operating performance and results are impacted significantly by prevailing market conditions and our ability to drive value creation across our businesses through high utilization, operational effectiveness and other annual improvements to our base business model. The following sections outline the general market conditions impacting our business throughout 2016 and our delivery on previously established performance objectives designed to maximize utilization, operate effectively and improve our core operations through other annual improvements. These sections should be read in conjunction with the Results of Operations discussion in the following pages of this Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

MARKET CONDITIONS

2015 SUMMARY. During most of 2015, we experienced above average margin environments in our regions due to various events and factors impacting supply and demand. We saw crude oil price volatility continue in the fourth quarter of 2015 due to multiple factors including weak global demand, continued supply growth outside the U.S. and political factors within the U.S., namely the lifting of the crude export ban. All of these events resulted in narrowing of U.S. domestic crude differentials compared to similar world markets. Weaker seasonal product demand in the fourth quarter resulted in lower margins than previous quarters, but continued growth in West Coast gasoline demand and local supply disruptions brought about higher than normal margins in our West Coast regions for the fourth quarter. Gasoline margins were better than typically seen in the fourth quarter on growth in U.S. demand, while distillate margins were lower due to global oversupply and slowing growth in both domestic and emerging economies. 

2016 DOMESTIC. Domestic markets have continued to experience volatility, with the price of Brent crude oil increasing over 50% in 2016 and nearly 12% in the fourth quarter. Supply growth in the Middle East and Russia in conjunction with declines in US crude production resulted in narrow domestic crude differentials relative to other global regions in a post export ban environment. Supply outages, changing logistical infrastructure, political aftereffects as well as improving domestic macroeconomic conditions have influenced all portions of our business.

In the markets in which we operate, product margins continue to reflect both global and regional fundamentals. Strong regional gasoline production was offset by demand growth which kept West Coast gasoline cracks near seasonal norms. In the 4th quarter, weaker seasonal demand resulted in lower gasoline cracks than the 3rd quarter, but increased exports to Mexico and Latin America provided support with West Coast margins averaging slightly below the five-year fourth quarter average. During the first three quarters of the year, slower global economic growth with the associated slower global diesel demand growth resulted in a surplus of global inventory which weighed heavily on diesel product cracks. However, West Coast distillate margins improved in the last quarter of 2016 due to seasonal turnaround maintenance which resulted in lower production and inventory declines. While U.S. product stocks ended the year at the top of the five year historical range, West Coast inventories of both gasoline and distillate were below the five year average reflecting a stronger fundamental environment compared to the other domestic regions. We continue to monitor the impact of changes on prices and fundamentals on our business.

2016 GLOBAL. The global energy markets have also experienced volatility due to uncertainty for growth in the developing regions of the world, the OPEC/non-OPEC crude production agreement, and fluctuations in the financial markets. The market for crude oil, natural gas and refined products is affected by changes in economic conditions and the associated supply and demand balance changes. Product values and crude oil prices are set by the market and are outside our control. We expect global market conditions to drive continued volatility in our markets.

30 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES

UTILIZATION AND OPERATIONAL EFFECTIVENESS. In December 2015, we laid out plans to deliver $500 to $600 million of improvements to operating income in 2016 resulting from improved utilization and operational effectiveness as compared to our 2015 operating performance. In 2015, we experienced lower than normal utilization and operational effectiveness primarily due to the work stoppage and an extended turnaround at our Utah refinery, both of which negatively impacted our operating results during those times. As a result, we set forth these improvement objectives to provide a way to compare our operating results in 2016 to 2015, exclusive of market impacts and the annual improvements to operating income discussed below. Our expectations for 2016 were a Tesoro Index (as defined in our Glossary of Terms) of $12 to $14 per throughput barrel in our Refining segment, fuel margins of 11 to 14 cents per gallon in our Marketing segment and crude oil differentials reflecting transportation costs which impact our Refining segment results. For the full year 2016, the Tesoro Index was at the low end of the range and Marketing fuel margins were in line with expectations. Crude oil differentials were significantly narrower than expectations and resulted in lower year-over-year capture rates and refining profitability. For the full year 2016, we delivered an estimated $485 million of year-over-year improvements compared to 2015 from higher utilization and operational efficiencies versus our original commitment of $500 to $600 million, which was revised to $400 to $500 million in the second quarter of 2016. Given the results in 2016 and the expectations about the Tesoro Index and marketing fuel margins remain the same as experienced in 2016 along with the crude oil differentials existing in the market at the end of 2016, no separate improvement goal for utilization and operational effectiveness is being established for 2017.

OTHER ANNUAL IMPROVEMENTS. In December 2015, we also committed to delivering $400 to $500 million of annual improvements to operating income in 2016, consisting of $200 to $250 million in Refining, $175 to $200 million in TLLP and $25 to $50 million in Marketing. For the full year 2016, we estimate that we delivered approximately $420 million of annual improvements to operating income, including Refining segment improvements of approximately $245 million, TLLP segment improvements of approximately $130 million and Marketing segment improvements of approximately $45 million. Estimated TLLP operating income improvements were below the range primarily due to the weak commodity price environment, which impacted crude oil and natural gas volumes and organic growth. Our 2016 achievements include the following in our Refining segment:

•Renegotiated a legacy product supply contract at our Los Angeles refinery, which will allow for greater yield flexibility and increased alternatives for sale and distribution of specialty products;

•Installed a new preflash tower at our Los Angeles refinery, which allows for greater yield flexibility and energy savings;

•Sourced new types of crude oils resulting in crude optimizations;

•Shared new crude oil cargos between the Los Angeles refinery and our Martinez refinery;

•Improved crude blending capabilities at the Carson crude terminal that resulted in higher throughput volumes;

•Improved pipeline connectivity between the Los Angeles refinery sites;

•Integrated naphtha and gasoline blendstocks on the West Coast;

•Re-distributed in-bound crude oil to our Kenai refinery during maintenance and turnaround activities at our Anacortes refinery to optimize our west coast system;

•Transported intermediates from our Dickinson refinery to our Anacortes and Salt Lake City refineries for additional upgrading;

•Operated our Salt Lake City refinery’s fluid catalytic cracker during the third quarter turnaround by running intermediates from our Dickinson refinery and waxy crude oil; and

•Completed the second phase of the Salt Lake City Refinery Expansion project.

Additionally, in our TLLP segment, operating income was positively impacted by the strategic acquisition of assets from Tesoro during 2016, optimization of existing terminalling and transportation assets and the completion of the second phase of gathering systems connecting additional wells located in the North Dakota Williston Basin/Bakken Shale area (the “High Plains System”). Further, our Marketing segment experienced continued growth in its retail station network with the addition of 95 sites during the year.

As announced in November 2016, we plan to deliver $475 to $575 million of annual improvements to operating income during 2017 in addition to the improvements delivered in 2016.

  December 31, 2016 | 31

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

A discussion and analysis of the factors contributing to our results of operations is presented below. The accompanying consolidated financial statements in Item 8, together with the following information, are intended to provide investors with a reasonable basis for assessing our historical operations, but should not serve as the only criteria for predicting our future performance.

ITEMS IMPACTING COMPARABILITY

The TLLP financial and operational data presented include the historical results of all assets acquired from Tesoro prior to the acquisition dates. The acquisitions from Tesoro were transfers between entities under common control. Accordingly, the financial information of TLLP contained herein has been retrospectively adjusted to include the historical results of the assets acquired from Tesoro prior to the effective date of each acquisition for all periods presented and do not include revenue for transactions with Tesoro with the exception of regulatory tariffs on its pipeline assets. The TLLP financial data is derived from the combined financial results of the TLLP predecessor (the “TLLP Predecessor”). We refer to the TLLP Predecessor and, prior to each acquisition date, the acquisitions from Tesoro collectively, as “TLLP’s Predecessors.”

NON-GAAP MEASURES

Our management uses certain “non-GAAP” performance measures to analyze operating segment performance and non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate past performance and prospects for the future to supplement our GAAP financial information presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). These financial non-GAAP measures are important factors in assessing our operating results and profitability and include:

•EBITDA-U.S. GAAP-based net earnings before interest, income taxes, and depreciation and amortization expenses

•Debt to capitalization ratio excluding TLLP-the ratio achieved by dividing the net result of our consolidated debt less all debt owed by TLLP (both net of unamortized issuance costs) by the sum of our consolidated debt less TLLP’s total debt (both net of unamortized issuance costs) and our total equity less noncontrolling interest associated with the public ownership of TLLP

We present these measures because we believe they may help investors, analysts, lenders and ratings agencies analyze our results of operations and liquidity in conjunction with our U.S. GAAP results, including but not limited to:

•our operating performance as compared to other publicly traded companies in the refining, logistics and marketing industries, without regard to historical cost basis or financing methods;

•our ability to incur and service debt and fund capital expenditures; and

•the viability of acquisitions and other capital expenditure projects and the returns on investment of various investment opportunities.

Management also uses these measures to assess internal performance, and we believe they may provide meaningful supplemental information to the users of our financial statements. Non-GAAP measures have important limitations as analytical tools, because they exclude some, but not all, items that affect net earnings and operating income. These measures should not be considered substitutes for their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. 

32 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

HIGHLIGHTS (in millions)

RECONCILIATION OF NET EARNINGS TO EBITDA (in millions)

2016 COMPARED TO 2015

OVERVIEW. Our net earnings in 2016 of $860 million decreased from net earnings of $1.7 billion in 2015 primarily due to the weaker margin environment within our Refining segment. Similarly, EBITDA of $2.4 billion in 2016 declined $1.2 billion, or 33%, from $3.6 billion in 2015 as a result of the weaker margin environment.

GROSS MARGINS. Our gross refining margin decreased $1.2 billion during 2016 compared to 2015 primarily driven by a weaker margin environment across all the regions in which we operate. The $4.70 decrease in our gross refining margin per barrel included the benefits of higher throughput in the year due to continued demand growth and the positive impact of the net lower of cost or market inventory adjustment of $359 million reversing in 2016 compared to an additional charge of $317 million in 2015. With a continued volatile price environment, the impact of our lower of cost of market adjustment can vary and may increase in the future. TLLP revenues, net of operating expenses, increased $92 million due to higher storage fees as well as terminalling and pipeline transportation throughput volumes driven by assets acquired in the year and continued organic expansion. Our gross marketing margin decreased $68 million primarily due to lower fuel margins in 2016 partially offset by increased fuel sales in the year.

OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES. Operating expenses remained relatively flat at $2.5 billion in 2016 compared to 2015. Depreciation and amortization expenses increased $95 million to $851 million in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to depreciation and amortization associated with the Great Northern Midstream acquisition along with new assets and turnarounds placed into service during the year.

INTEREST AND FINANCING COSTS, NET.  Interest and financing costs increased approximately $57 million to $274 million during 2016 from $217 million in 2015. The increase was attributable to the write-off of deferred financing costs related to revolver amendments, bridge facility fees in anticipation of the Western Refining acquisition and new debt issuances in the year, primarily the $250 million aggregate principal amount of TLLP’s 6.125% Senior Notes due in 2021 and the $450 million aggregate principal amount of TLLP’s 6.375% Senior Notes due in 2024 issued in May 2016.

  December 31, 2016 | 33

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

OTHER INCOME. Other income during 2016 included gains of $15 million related to pipeline tariff refunds received in California, $13 million proceeds related to an insurance settlement on contaminated crude oil shipment we received in 2013 and $9 million gain related to an adjustment permitted in the agreement from the 2013 acquisition of the ARCO® brand. In 2015, other income included a gain for an insurance settlement of $11 million related to the Washington Refinery Fire.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE. Our income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $427 million in 2016 versus $936 million in 2015. The decreased income tax expense is attributable to the decrease in earnings before income taxes. The combined federal and state effective income tax rate was 33.4% and 35.6% during 2016 and 2015, respectively. Compared to 2015, the income from non-taxable noncontrolling interests attributable to TLLP was a higher percentage of earnings before income taxes. The 2016 rate also benefited from a $16 million decrease in expense related to the early adoption of Accounting Standards Updated (“ASU”) 2016-09, “Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting.” See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on ASU 2016-09.

EARNINGS (LOSS) FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF INCOME TAX. Earnings from discontinued operations related to the Hawaii Business, net of tax, were $10 million in 2016, compared to a $4 million loss in 2015. The earnings in 2016 primarily related to proceeds from the calendar year 2015 earn-out owed to the Company. The loss in 2015 was related to a change in estimate for the regulatory improvements we are required to make.

2015 COMPARED TO 2014

OVERVIEW. Our net earnings in 2015 were $1.7 billion compared with $888 million in 2014 due primarily to the stronger margin environment in our Refining segment and lower operating expenses. Similarly, EBITDA of $3.6 billion in 2015 increased $1.4 billion, or 61%, from $2.2 billion in 2014 driven by the margin environment.

GROSS MARGINS. Our gross refining margin increased $691 million during 2015 compared to 2014 primarily driven by a stronger margin environment across the California and Pacific Northwest regions. The increase in our gross refining margin was driven by an increase of $2.99 in our gross margin per barrel partially offset by the impact of the work stoppage and three refinery turnarounds on our refinery utilization during 2015 as well as the net lower of cost or market inventory adjustments of $317 million for 2015 compared to $42 million for 2014. With a continued volatile price environment, the impact of our lower of cost of market adjustments can vary and may increase in the future. TLLP revenues, net of operating expenses, increased $365 million due to higher throughput volumes driven by a full year of operating from the Rockies Natural Gas Business (defined in Item 8, Note 2), and additional operations from other acquired assets as well as continued expansion of its crude oil gathering assets. Our Marketing gross margin increased $296 million primarily driven by favorable fuel margins and strong demand.

OTHER COSTS AND EXPENSES. Operating expenses were largely in line at $2.5 billion in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to declining natural gas costs and the conversion of company-operated retail sites to MSOs that reduced costs associated with the management of station operations partially offset by increased expenses from a full year of operations from the Rockies Natural Gas Business. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $194 million to $756 million in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to depreciation and amortization associated with the Rockies Natural Gas Business and new assets placed into service. Loss on asset disposals and impairments for 2015 include various projects that were discontinued due to their lack of economic viability given the current market environment.

INTEREST AND FINANCING COSTS, NET. Interest and financing costs decreased approximately $18 million to $217 million during 2015 from $235 million during 2014. The decrease consisted primarily of financing transactions that occurred in 2014 that did not have a comparable transaction in 2015. These transactions include a $39 million charge for premiums paid, unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts related to the redemption of the 9.750% Senior Notes due 2019 and TLLP 5.875% Senior Notes due 2020 in 2014 as well as bridge fees in connection with TLLP’s Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition. These decreases were partially offset by a full year of incremental interest on TLLP’s 5.500% Senior Notes due 2019 and TLLP’s 6.250% Senior Notes due 2022.

OTHER INCOME. Other income during 2015 included an insurance settlement gain of $11 million related to the Washington Refinery Fire and in 2014 included a refund and settlement from a crude pipeline network rate case settlement of $59 million.

INCOME TAX EXPENSE. Our income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $936 million in 2015 versus $547 million in 2014 with the increase attributable to the increase in earnings before income tax. The combined federal and state effective income tax rate was 35.6% and 37.4% during 2015 and 2014, respectively. Compared to 2014, the income from non-taxable noncontrolling interests attributable to TLLP was a higher percentage of earnings before income taxes.

34 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

LOSS FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF INCOME TAX. Losses from discontinued operations related to the Hawaii Business, net of tax, were $4 million in 2015, compared to $29 million in 2014. The loss in 2014 primarily related to $42 million in charges related to regulatory improvements we are obligated to make at the Hawaii refinery to resolve the Clean Air Act matters discussed in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. The loss in 2015 is related to a change in estimate for the regulatory improvements we are required to make.

REFINING SEGMENT

HIGHLIGHTS (in millions)

We currently own and operate seven petroleum refineries located in the western United States and sell transportation fuels to a wide variety of customers. Our refineries produce the majority of the transportation fuels that we sell. Our seven refineries have a combined crude oil capacity of 895 Mbpd. We purchase crude oil and other feedstocks from domestic and foreign sources, including the Middle East, South America, western Africa, Canada, and other locations either in the spot market or through term agreements with renewal provisions. Our Marketing segment, including its branded retail network, provides a committed outlet for the majority of the gasoline produced by our refineries; however, we also sell gasoline and gasoline blendstocks, jet fuel, diesel fuel, heavy fuel oils and residual products in bulk and opportunistically export refined products to certain foreign markets.

REFINING UTILIZATION (a)

(a)Tesoro had a total refining capacity of 895 Mbpd in 2016 following the acquisition of the Dickinson refinery in June, in line with our acquisition oriented growth strategy. In December 2015, we updated our capacity to 875 Mbpd after the completion of several key capital projects. For purposes of the utilization calculation above, a total refining capacity of 850 Mbpd was used for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. 

MARKET OVERVIEW. Results from our Refining segment are highly volatile and subject to many factors that are beyond our control. Revenue is not a good proxy for financial performance as the key driver of revenue is the underlying price per barrel of crude oil. Gross refining margin, refinery throughputs, crack spreads and crude oil differentials are better metrics to measure the performance of the Refining segment.

The gross refining margin is the difference between the prices of all manufactured refined products sold and the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks used to produce refined products, including the cost of transportation and distribution paid to TLLP and third parties at contractual rates. The market for crude oil and products is affected by changes in economic conditions and supply and demand balance. Product values and crude oil prices are set by the market and are outside of our control. When evaluating the markets in which we operate, we utilize the U.S. Energy Information Administration and other industry sources, to gather supply, demand, utilization, import and export information to forecast and monitor market conditions for our operating 

  December 31, 2016 | 35

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

regions. We focus on PADD V, or the West Coast of the U.S. where the majority of our operations are located. PADD V is defined by the Petroleum Administration for Defense Districts (“PADD”) as the states of Alaska, Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, Oregon and Washington.

As a performance benchmark and a comparison with other industry participants, we utilize the West Coast and Mid-Continent crack spreads. The crack spread is a measure of the difference between market prices for crude oil and refined products and is a commonly used proxy within the industry to estimate or identify trends in gross refining margins. Crack spreads can fluctuate significantly over time as a result of market conditions and supply and demand balances. The West Coast 321 crack spread is calculated using 3 barrels of Alaska North Slope crude oil (“ANS”) producing 2 barrels of Los Angeles CARB gasoline and 1 barrel of Los Angeles CARB diesel. The Mid-Continent 321 crack spread is calculated using 3 barrels of West Texas Intermediate crude oil (“WTI”) producing 2 barrels of Group 3 gasoline and 1 barrel of Group 3 diesel.

Our actual gross refining margins differ from these crack spreads based on the actual slate of crude oil we run at our refineries and the products we produce. The global commodity markets for crude oil and refined products are subject to significant volatility resulting in rapidly changing prices and margin environments. Our refineries process a variety of crude oils that are sourced from around the world. The slate of crude oil we process can vary over time as a result of changes in market prices and shipping rates. Additionally, our refining gross margin is impacted by the changing crude oil price differentials, which is the difference between the benchmark crude oils, WTI and Brent crude oil (“Brent”), and the actual crude oil we run at our refineries. We may experience financial risk associated with price volatility of crude oil and refined products and we may utilize financial hedge instruments to help mitigate such risks where possible.

KEY INFORMATION USED TO MONITOR OUR BUSINESS - CRUDE OIL DIFFERENTIALS (in $/barrel)

Source: PLATTS

WEST COAST. Average U.S. West Coast crack spreads were down approximately 35.9% in 2016 compared to 2015 but were up approximately 55.9% in 2015 compared to 2014. The decreased crack spreads in 2016 resulted from increased supply year over year, partially offset by continued growth in demand. 2015 crack spreads were up versus 2014 due to several extended unplanned refinery outages in the West Coast (PADD V) region, including our own as discussed below, which reduced West Coast refinery utilization in the year.

36 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

MID-CONTINENT. Average Mid-Continent crack spreads were down approximately 10.9% in 2016 compared to 2015 but were up approximately 10.2% in 2015 versus 2014. Margins and differentials both decreased in 2016 over 2015 resulting in lower gross refining margin. The region had experienced strong growth driven by crude oil drilling in recent years, but 2016 experienced lower crude oil prices and significantly reduced drilling activities which lowered crude oil supply, which led to decreasing differentials, and lowered product demand, which reduced margins. The WTI to Bakken differential decreased approximately $0.91 per barrel, increasing the price of Bakken, which resulted in a lower gross margin in 2016 compared to 2015. Bakken crude oil represented about 57% of the crude oil consumed by our Mid-Continent system in 2016.

OPERATIONAL DATA AND RESULTS. Management uses various operating metrics to evaluate performance and efficiency and to compare profitability to other companies in the industry. These measures include:

•Gross refining margin per barrel is calculated by dividing gross refining margin (revenues less costs of feedstocks, purchased refined products, transportation and distribution) by total refining throughput; and

•Manufacturing costs before depreciation and amortization expense (“Manufacturing Costs”) per barrel is calculated by dividing Manufacturing Costs by total refining throughput.

Investors and analysts use these financial measures to help analyze and compare companies in the industry on the basis of operating performance. These financial measures should not be considered alternatives to segment operating income, revenues, costs of sales and operating expenses or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

REFINING THROUGHPUT (Mbpd)

  December 31, 2016 | 37

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

REFINING SEGMENT OPERATING DATA AND RESULTS (dollars in millions, except per barrel amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 COMPARED TO 2015

OVERVIEW. Operating income for our Refining segment decreased $1.3 billion, or 71%, to $535 million in 2016 compared to 2015 due to a weaker margin environment. Average U.S. West Coast and Mid-Continent crack spreads were down approximately $5.53 per barrel in 2016 at an average $16.18 per barrel compared to an average $21.71 per barrel in 2015. Total refinery utilization of 93% in 2016 was largely in line with the 93% experienced in 2015.

REFINING THROUGHPUT. Total refining throughput increased 38 Mbpd, or 5%, to 825 Mbpd in 2016 compared to 787 Mbpd in 2015. The increase is primarily attributable to the California region where work stoppages and large planned turnarounds in 2015 negatively impacted throughput, the Anacortes refinery where a turnaround in mid-2015 decreased throughput and the Dickinson refinery, which was acquired in June 2016.

GROSS REFINING MARGIN. Our gross refining margin per barrel decreased $4.70 per barrel, or 31%, to $10.42 per barrel in 2016 compared to 2015 given a weaker margin environment across all regions, particularly California and Mid-Continent, partially offset by the positive impact of the lower of cost or market adjustment in 2016.

Total gross refining margin decreased $1.2 billion, or 28%, to $3.1 billion in 2016 compared to 2015. Gross margins in the California, Pacific Northwest and Mid-Continent regions decreased by $824 million, $165 million and $209 million, respectively. Declining crack spreads and crude oil differentials in the regions within which we operate largely contributed to the decrease in gross refining margin in the year. Partially offsetting the regional decreases was continued demand growth for our refined products and a $359 million benefit from lower of cost or market adjustments reversing in 2016 related to our inventory compared to an additional $317 million charge in 2015. Our continued focus on realizing business improvements and synergies also contributed to our results across all regions.

38 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

REFINING SEGMENT OPERATING DATA AND RESULTS (dollars in millions, except per barrel amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 COMPARED TO 2014

OVERVIEW. Operating income for our Refining segment increased $678 million, or 57%, to $1.9 billion in 2015 compared to 2014 due to a stronger margin environment. Average U.S. West Coast crack spreads margins were approximately $25 per barrel, over $9 per barrel higher, in 2015 compared to 2014. Total refinery utilization was 93% in 2015 compared to 97% in 2014 primarily as a result of the work stoppage and an increase in our stated overall refining capacity to 875 Mbpd compared to 850 Mbpd in 2014.

REFINING THROUGHPUT. Total refining throughput decreased 38 Mbpd, or 5%, to 787 Mbpd in 2015 as compared to 825 Mbpd in 2014. The decrease is primarily due the work stoppage and large planned turnarounds at our Los Angeles and Martinez refineries and project activity at our Salt Lake City refinery. Our California region was most significantly impacted by the work stoppage at our Martinez refinery resulting in it being idled and reduced throughput in the Carson portion of our Los Angeles refinery.

GROSS REFINING MARGINS. Our gross refining margin increased $2.99 per barrel, or 25%, to $15.12 per barrel in 2015 compared to 2014 given a stronger margin environment across the California and Pacific Northwest regions, which was offset by the impact of work stoppages and three refinery turnarounds during 2015.

Total gross refining margin increased $691 million, or 19%, to $4.3 billion in 2015 compared to 2014. Gross margins in the California and Pacific Northwest regions increased by $920 million and $97 million, respectively, while margins in the Mid-Continent decreased by $326 million. The gross margin increases in the California and the Pacific Northwest regions were due to favorable market conditions caused by strong clean product demand growth and supported by lower consumer prices as a result of falling crude oil price. The West Coast (PADD V) region also experienced several unplanned refinery outages, which impacted overall regional supply. Margins decreased in the Mid-Continent region primarily as a result of lower crude oil differentials. Our continued focus on realizing business improvements and synergies also contributed to our results across all regions. Partially offsetting the regional increases was a $317 million impact from lower of cost or market adjustments related to our inventory in 2015 compared to $42 million in 2014.

(a) Sources of total refined product sales include refined products manufactured at our refineries and refined products purchased from third parties. Total refined product sales include sales of manufactured and purchased refined products. Refined product sales include all sales through our Marketing segment as well as in bulk markets and exports through our Refining segment.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  December 31, 2016 | 39

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

REFINING SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS BY REGION (in millions, except per barrel amounts)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Included in the Mid-Continent region’s other operating expenses is $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, related to our acquisition of Great Northern Midstream LLC. Revenues associated with those costs are recognized in gross refining margin.

TLLP SEGMENT

HIGHLIGHTS (in millions)

TLLP is a publicly traded limited partnership that was formed to own, operate, develop and acquire logistics assets. A significant portion of its assets are integral to the success of Tesoro’s refining and marketing operations and generate revenue by charging fees for gathering crude oil, natural gas, and water, for terminalling, transporting and storing crude oil and refined products and for processing and fractionating NGLs.

40 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OPERATIONAL DATA AND RESULTS. Management uses average revenue per barrel and average revenue per MMBtu to evaluate performance and compare profitability to other companies in the industry. We calculate average revenue per barrel as revenue divided by total throughput and total processing volumes, respectively, while average revenue per MMBtu is calculated as revenue divided by total volume. Investors and analysts use these financial measures to help analyze and compare companies in the industry on the basis of operating performance. These financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to segment operating income, revenues and operating expenses or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP.

MARKET OVERVIEW. During the past year, spot prices of the commodities that TLLP handles, including crude oil, natural gas, and refined products, declined, while natural gas liquids increased. The lower price levels along with increased volatility in the commodity price environment created challenges for crude oil and natural gas producers who modified their drilling and production plans. The U.S. oil and gas drilling rig count continued to see declines in the first half of 2016 but reversed course in the second half of the year leaving year-over-year count relatively unchanged. Looking forward, price appreciation, improved producer economics, advanced drilling techniques and better well management along with a backlog of uncompleted wells available for completion could positively impact overall U.S. production volumes.

Lower retail prices and favorable economic conditions throughout 2016 supported increased demand for refined products from TLLP’s downstream refining and marketing customers. Changes in the U.S. political landscape, namely around the lifting of the 40 year old crude oil export ban in December 2015, had a minimal impact on TLLP’s business and TLLP believes this will continue to be the case in the short term. TLLP continues to monitor the impact of these changes in market prices and fundamentals as it relates to TLLP’s business. Currently, TLLP believes its diversified portfolio, which is underpinned by long-term contracts, many of which are supported by minimum volume commitments, adequately supports its goals and objectives outlined above.

The results of operations for TLLP’s natural gas gathering and processing operations are shown in Mbpd, per barrel, MMBtu and per MMBtu amounts.

TLLP SEGMENT OPERATING DATA

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b) TLLP commenced natural gas gathering and processing operations with the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business in December 2014. Per day calculations only reflect the period of 2014 that TLLP owned the Rockies Natural Gas Business. 

  December 31, 2016 | 41

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

TLLP SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 COMPARED TO 2015

OVERVIEW. Operating income for our TLLP segment increased $94 million to $487 million due to higher revenues, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. 

REVENUES AND THROUGHPUT. Terminalling and pipeline transportation throughput increased as a result of terminalling assets from the Alaska Storage and Terminalling Assets acquisition, stronger customer demand and organic growth projects adding new capabilities to TLLP’s system. Gas gathering volume decreased largely due to the deconsolidation of RGS in 2016 while crude oil pipeline throughput increased due to increased activity and the completion of expansion projects. Natural gas fee-based processing was down in the year due to limited drilling activity and lower resulting production in the areas we service. Revenues for 2016 increased $108 million, or 9.7%, to $1.2 billion primarily driven by the full year impact of the LA Storage and Handling Assets purchased from Tesoro in November 2015 and the Alaska Storage and Terminalling Assets purchased in 2016.

OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES. Operating expenses increased $16 million in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily resulting from the inclusion of gross operating expenses related to TLLP’s transactions with RGS in 2016 that were previously eliminated upon consolidation as well as additional expenses related to acquisitions during 2016 partially offset by a reduction in the environmental remediation costs recognized in 2016 compared to 2015 related to the 2013 release of crude oil in a rural field northeast of Tioga, North Dakota.

42 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

TLLP SEGMENT OPERATING RESULTS (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2015 COMPARED TO 2014

OVERVIEW. Operating income for our TLLP segment increased $229 million to $393 million due to higher revenues, offset by an increase in operating expenses resulting from increased labor and operating costs associated with the acquired operations. The Rockies Natural Gas Business, which was acquired in December 2014, contributed significantly towards the increase in TLLP’s operating income during 2015.

REVENUES AND THROUGHPUT. Gathering throughput volume increased as a result of the assets acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition and the continuing expansion of the High Plains System. TLLP commenced natural gas gathering and processing operations with the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business in December 2014. The increase in volumes for crude oil gathering pipeline throughput was almost entirely due to third-party volumes. NGLs processing throughput and fee-based processing throughput volumes also increased as a result of a full year of operations of the assets acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition. These higher throughput volumes resulted in an increase to revenues of $512 million during 2015 to $1.1 billion compared to $600 million in 2014.

OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES. Operating expenses increased $147 million in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily related to operations acquired in the Rockies Natural Gas Business acquisition in late 2014. Included in 2015 operating expenses is an incremental accrual of $24 million related to the 2013 release of crude oil in a rural field northeast of Tioga, North Dakota compared to $18 million recognized in 2014. General and administrative expenses increased by $29 million in 2015 due to higher allocations of overhead costs associated with increased costs to support the growth of the business.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(b)TLLP commenced natural gas gathering and processing operations with the acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business in December 2014.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  December 31, 2016 | 43

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

MARKETING SEGMENT

HIGHLIGHTS

We sell gasoline and diesel fuel in the western U.S. through branded and unbranded channels. Our branded operations are made up of Jobber/Dealers. Our unbranded business includes volumes sold through agreements with third-party distributors/operators. Our branded and unbranded channels provide profitable and committed outlets for the majority of the gasoline produced by our refineries. Our Marketing segment included a network of retail stations under the ARCO®, Shell®, Exxon®, Mobil®, USA GasolineTM, RebelTM, ThriftyTM and Tesoro® brands. Our unique brand portfolio allows us to regionally select premium and value brands consistent with consumer preferences. In addition to added profitability, our Marketing business enables our refineries to run optimally, which lowers overall operating costs per barrel.

OPERATIONAL DATA AND RESULTS. Management uses fuel margin per gallon to compare fuel results to other companies in the industry. There are a variety of ways to calculate fuel margin per gallon; different companies may calculate it in different ways. We calculate fuel margin per gallon by dividing fuel gross margin by fuel sales volumes. Investors and analysts may use fuel margin per gallon to help analyze and compare companies in the industry on the basis of operating performance. This financial measure should not be considered an alternative to revenues, segment operating income or any other measure of financial performance presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Fuel margin and fuel margin per gallon include the effect of intersegment purchases from the Refining segment.

NUMBER OF BRANDED STATIONS

44 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

MARKETING SEGMENT OPERATING DATA AND RESULTS (dollars in millions, except cents per gallon)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2016 COMPARED TO 2015

OVERVIEW. Operating income decreased $69 million, or 8%, to $830 million in 2016 compared to $899 million in 2015 primarily due to lower gasoline margins in 2016 in all of the regions we operate in, particularly in the West Coast (PADD V) region. Higher gasoline prices in 2015 were experienced in the West Coast (PADD V) region during the second and third quarters as a result of several unplanned refinery outages, largely returning to normal by the fourth quarter.

GROSS MARGIN.  Gross margin decreased $68 million to $1.2 billion during 2016 compared to $1.3 billion in 2015. The decrease is primarily due to lower gasoline margins in 2016, offset in part by a 3% year over year increase in fuel sales driven by increased demand and growth in our retail site network.

OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES. Operating and other expenses were relatively flat year over year with $368 million in 2016 compared to $367 million in 2015.

2015 COMPARED TO 2014

OVERVIEW. Operating income increased $346 million, or 63%, to $899 million in 2015 compared to $553 million in 2014, primarily as a result of increased fuel sales volumes driven by strong demand and growth in our retail site network and reduced operating expenses.

GROSS MARGIN. Gross margin increased $296 million to $1.3 billion during 2015 compared to $970 million in 2014. We experienced higher fuel margin driven by favorable market conditions and strong demand. Fuel sales volumes increased 4% during 2015 and 2014 from strong demand attributed to lower fuel prices and continued economic improvement in the markets in which we operate.

OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES. The decrease of $52 million in operating expenses was primarily driven by the conversion of our retail stations to the MSO model that reduced costs associated with management of station operations.

(a)In December 2014, we converted our company-operated retail stations to MSO retail stations. The impact of this change was not material to our Marketing segment results.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  December 31, 2016 | 45

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY

OVERVIEW

We operate in an environment where our capital resources and liquidity are impacted by changes in the price of crude oil and refined products, availability of trade credit, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors beyond our control. These factors include the level of consumer demand for transportation fuels, weather conditions, fluctuations in seasonal demand, governmental regulations, geo-political conditions and overall market and global economic conditions. See “Important Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for further information related to risks and other factors. Future capital expenditures, as well as borrowings under our credit agreements and other sources of capital, may be affected by these conditions. Debt is described in greater detail in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

CAPITALIZATION

CAPITAL STRUCTURE (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)In connection with our acquisition of the Dickinson Refinery, we assumed $66 million of term loan debt.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

SENIOR NOTES BY MATURITY (in millions)

Our debt, net of unamortized issuance costs, to capitalization ratio was 46% and 34% at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our debt, net of unamortized issuance costs, to capitalization ratio, excluding TLLP, was 35% and 19% at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which excludes TLLP total debt, net of unamortized issuance costs and TLLP capital leases of $4.1 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and excludes noncontrolling interest of $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. TLLP’s debt is non-recourse to Tesoro, except for Tesoro Logistics GP, LLC.

2016 DEBT TRANSACTIONS

During 2016, both Tesoro and TLLP were active in the debt markets, in part due to acquisition related activities. In anticipation of the Western Refining merger, Tesoro completed a $1.6 billion senior notes offering in December 2016 and entered into a financing commitment letter in November 2016 committing banks to provide up to $2.2 billion in the form of a bridge credit facility. In addition, the Company amended its revolving credit facility to take advantage of improved terms and to better position itself for funding the Western Refining transaction with an incremental $1.0 billion capacity, at which time the commitment letter was reduced to $1.2 billion and ultimately terminated. In connection with acquisitions from Tesoro, TLLP completed a $750 million offering in December 2016 and completed another offering of $700 million in May 2016. In addition to a senior notes exchange in February 2016, TLLP entered in a new $1.0 billion Dropdown Credit Facility and amended its revolving credit facility in January 2016.

See Note 12 in Item 8 for a more detailed discussion regarding the company’s debt transactions in the year.

CREDIT FACILITIES OVERVIEW

Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations with additional sources available under borrowing capacity from our revolving lines of credit. We ended 2016 with $3.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents, no borrowings outstanding under the Tesoro Corporation revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) or the TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility and $330 million of borrowings outstanding under the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility. We believe available capital resources will be adequate to meet our capital expenditure, working capital and debt service requirements.

  December 31, 2016 | 47

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

AVAILABLE CAPACITY UNDER REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITIES (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITIES EXPENSES AND FEES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

COVENANTS. Our Revolving Credit Facility, as amended, senior notes, TLLP Revolving Credit Facility, TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility and TLLP senior notes include certain negative, affirmative and financial covenants, a number of which will either no longer apply or become less restrictive if an investment grade rating from either Moody's Investors Service or S&P Global Ratings is achieved, that may limit or restrict the ability of Tesoro and its subsidiaries to:

•pay dividends and make other distributions with respect to our capital stock and purchase, redeem or retire our capital stock;

•enter into certain hedging agreements;

•incur additional indebtedness;

•sell assets unless the proceeds from those sales are used to repay debt or are reinvested in our business;

•incur liens on assets to secure certain debt;

•engage in certain business activities;

•make certain payments and distributions from our subsidiaries;

•engage in certain investments, mergers or consolidations and transfers of assets; and

•enter into non-arm’s length transactions with affiliates.

We do not believe that the limitations will restrict our ability to pay dividends (distributions for TLLP) or repurchase stock under our current programs. We also have financial covenants that require Tesoro or TLLP to maintain certain interest coverage and leverage ratios. There were no changes to the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility covenants during the year ended December 31, 2016. We were in compliance with our debt covenants as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our debt obligations.

TLLP REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY AMENDMENT. On January 29, 2016, TLLP amended its existing secured TLLP Revolving Credit Facility. As a result of the amendment, TLLP decreased the aggregate available facility limit from $900 million to $600 million and improved terms related to pricing and financial covenants.

48 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

TLLP DROPDOWN CREDIT FACILITY. On January 29, 2016, TLLP syndicated a new $1.0 billion secured TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility. The primary use of proceeds under this facility will be to fund TLLP asset acquisitions. This facility provides TLLP a flexible capital structure with a segregated source of financing for future asset acquisitions including transactions with Tesoro. The terms, covenants and restrictions under this facility are substantially the same with its amended secured TLLP Revolving Credit Facility. 

The secured TLLP Revolving Credit Facility and the secured TLLP Dropdown Credit Facility ratably share collateral comprised primarily of TLLP property, plant and equipment and both facilities mature January 29, 2021. In addition, upon an upgrade of TLLP’s corporate family rating to investment grade, certain covenants and restrictions under each facility will automatically be eliminated or improved. See further discussion in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

SHARE REPURCHASES

We are authorized by our Board of Directors (the “Board”) to purchase shares of our common stock in open market transactions at our discretion. The Board’s authorization has no time limit and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Purchases of our common stock can be made to offset the dilutive effect of stock-based compensation awards and to meet our obligations under employee benefit and compensation plans, including the exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock and to fulfill other stock compensation requirements. We purchased approximately 3.2 million shares of our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2016 at an average price of $78.56 per share and 6.9 million shares of our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2015 at an average price of $93.60 per share for approximately $250 million and $644 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In October 2015, our Board approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program to become effective upon the full completion of the current $1.0 billion share repurchase authorized in July 2014. In connection with the Merger with Western Refining, our Board approved a new $1.0 billion share repurchase program. We have over $2.1 billion remaining under our authorized programs.

CASH DIVIDENDS

On February 3, 2017, our Board declared a cash dividend of $0.550 per share, payable on March 15, 2017 to shareholders of record on February 28, 2017.

CASH DIVIDENDS PAID

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CASH FLOW SUMMARY

Working capital (excluding cash) decreased $270 million in 2016 primarily related to the 4.250% senior notes due 2017 and the timing of our payments for crude oil and refined product purchases partially offset by a higher inventory balance due to higher crude oil prices and the timing of receivables. Working capital (excluding cash) increased $191 million in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily related to the timing of our payments for crude oil and refined product purchases, which was offset by timing of receivables, and the net decrease in inventories, which included a $359 million net lower of cost or market inventory adjustment due to the lower price environment we experienced during 2015.

COMPONENTS OF OUR CASH FLOWS (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

  December 31, 2016 | 49

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

2016 COMPARED TO 2015

OPERATING ACTIVITIES. Net cash from operating activities decreased $827 million, or 39%, to $1.3 billion in 2016 compared to $2.1 billion in 2015. The decrease in net cash from operating activities was primarily due to $830 million in lower net earnings in 2016 versus 2015 coupled with a $676 million change in the lower cost of market adjustment offset by change in working capital in the period.

INVESTING ACTIVITIES. Net cash used in investing activities increased $188 million, or 17%, to $1.3 billion in 2016 compared to $1.1 billion in 2015 primarily due to funds used for acquisitions in the year partially offset by reduced capital expenditures in 2016. See “Capital Expenditures” in this Item.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES. Net cash from financing activities during 2016 totaled $2.4 billion compared to net cash used of $1.1 billion in 2015. The $3.4 billion year on year change was primarily due to $3.1 billion of proceeds from debt offerings in 2016, $265 million more proceeds from issuances of TLLP common units and $394 million less purchases of common stock in the year partially offset by no borrowings under the TLLP term loan credit agreement in 2016 versus $250 million in 2015. The 2016 debt offerings primarily consisted of the $1.6 billion of senior notes issuances in late 2016 in anticipation of the Western Refining transaction, the $700 million of senior notes issuances by TLLP in May 2016 and the $750 million of senior notes issued in December 2016 by TLLP. Dividend payments and payments to noncontrolling interests increased $55 million during 2016 compared to 2015.

2015 COMPARED TO 2014

OPERATING ACTIVITIES. Net cash from operating activities increased $767 million, or 56%, to $2.1 billion in 2015 compared to $1.4 billion in 2014. The increase in net cash from operating activities was primarily attributable to $802 million in higher net earnings in 2015 offset by an $86 million increase in turnaround and branding charges during 2015.

INVESTING ACTIVITIES. Net cash used in investing activities decreased $2.0 billion, or 64% to $1.1 billion in 2015 compared to $3.2 billion in 2014 primarily due to cash paid of $2.5 billion for TLLP’s acquisition of the Rockies Natural Gas Business with no comparable acquisition in 2015. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in cash capital expenditures of $345 million primarily in our Refining segment. See “Capital Expenditures” in this Item.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES. Net cash used in financing activities during 2015 totaled $1.1 billion compared to net cash from financing activities of $1.6 billion in 2014. The $2.6 billion change was primarily due to TLLP’s financing activities during 2014 including senior note issuances of $1.3 billion, net proceeds of approximately $949 million from the issuance of TLLP common units, and borrowings on the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility to fund its 2014 acquisitions. Additionally, we completed the issuance of $300 million of 5.125% senior notes used to repay the 9.750% Senior Notes due 2019. Dividend payments and payments to noncontrolling interests increased $173 million and purchases of common stock under our share repurchase programs increased $144 million during 2015 versus 2014.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Our capital spending reflects the Company’s emphasis on long term strategic priorities including continued focus on safety, reliability and value-driven growth. Growth capital expenditures include purchases or construction of new assets and expansion of existing facilities or services that increase throughput capacity or operational capabilities of our assets. Maintenance capital expenditures include projects to extend the life or maintain equipment reliability and integrity. Tesoro regulatory capital expenditures include projects to attain or maintain compliance with regulatory standards. We monitor the effectiveness of our investments in capital projects as part of our focus on financial discipline and continuous improvement. In addition, for major capital projects, we routinely review project assumptions and project execution as well as obtain third-party evaluations to assist in improving our project planning and execution. Actual and estimated amounts described below include amounts representing capitalized interest and labor. Tesoro primarily funds capital expenditures with cash generated from operations. TLLP primarily funds its capital expenditures with cash generated from operations, reimbursements for certain growth and maintenance capital expenditures, borrowings under the TLLP Revolving Credit Facility and issuances of additional TLLP debt and equity securities, as needed.

50 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

2016 CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Tesoro capital expenditures exclude TLLP.

2017 EXPECTED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Tesoro capital expenditures exclude TLLP.

Cost estimates for projects currently in process or under development are subject to further review, analysis and permitting requirements resulting in revisions to our current spend estimates.

MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECTS IN PROCESS OR UNDER DEVELOPMENT (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)The integration and compliance project at the Los Angeles refinery is designed to improve the flexibility of gasoline and diesel yields and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. The proposed project, subject to project scoping, engineering and regulatory approval, includes decommissioning the fluid catalytic cracking unit at our Wilmington, California facility. Of the total expected capital expenditure related to this project, we anticipate a portion may be incurred and paid by TLLP.

(b)The Mixed Xylenes Project is a portion of the Clean Products Upgrade Project at our Anacortes, Washington refinery that will help diversify our product mix through the extraction of existing mixed xylene from gasoline and improve our capability to deliver cleaner local transportation fuels and global feedstocks, primarily for polyester. The Mixed Xylenes Project and its components remain subject to final board and regulatory approval.

(c)The Enterprise Resource Planning Project will simplify business processes by implementing a standardized and scalable platform across the Company to transform our business information and technology systems and to further streamline our operations, reduce costs and provide for future growth. We expect this project to be a complex, multi-year process that will require significant investments in software and technology. We completed the design phase in October 2016 and have transitioned to the build phase of this process.

(d)The Vancouver Energy Terminal project is a partnership with Savage Companies to construct, own and operate a unit train unloading and marine loading terminal at Port of Vancouver, USA with a total capacity of 360 Mbpd allowing for the delivery of cost-advantaged North American crude oil to the U.S. West Coast. The project cost estimate will be updated once the project has completed the permitting process in the state of Washington. The project’s construction is estimated to take nine to twelve months, however initial operations are expected to begin within a few months of construction start. Effective September 1, 2016, we became majority owner of Vancouver Energy and as a result are reporting the total project costs above.

(e)The regulatory and compliance project for the Avon Wharf in Martinez, California is required under the California building code for Marine Oil Terminal Engineering and Maintenance Standards (“MOTEMS”). The project is nearly complete and has replaced the marine berth with a MOTEMS compliant structure that will improve clean product movements and has received all regulatory approval and permits.

  December 31, 2016 | 51

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

(f)The Mandan Tier 3 Project is designed to lower the sulfur content in gasoline, which aligns with the new Federal Tier 3 standards. The project will install a gasoline hydrotreater and associated infrastructure with completion expected before the end of 2019. The Mandan Tier 3 Project remains subject to final board approval as well as the review and approval by regulatory agencies. 

(g)The Naphtha Isomerization Project is a portion of the Clean Products Upgrade Project at our Anacortes, Washington refinery that will improve our capability to deliver cleaner local transportation fuels. The project is progressing with construction and is designed to lower the sulfur content in gasoline, which aligns with the new Federal Tier 3 standards.

TURNAROUNDS AND BRANDING CHARGES

In addition to our capital spending program, we have expenditures for turnarounds, catalyst and branding charges. 

SIGNIFICANT PLANNED TURNAROUNDS BY LOCATION AND BRANDING CHARGES (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

We have not entered into any transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements, other than our leasing arrangements described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 that would result in off-balance sheet liabilities.

ENVIRONMENTAL

We are a party to various litigation and contingent loss situations, including environmental and income tax matters, arising in the ordinary course of business. Although we cannot predict the ultimate outcomes of these matters with certainty, we have accrued for the estimated liabilities when appropriate. We believe that the outcome of these matters will not have a material impact on our liquidity or financial position, although the resolution of certain of these matters could have a material impact on our interim or annual results of operations. Additionally, if applicable, we accrue receivables for probable third-party recoveries.

ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws, which change frequently, regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and may require us to remove or mitigate the environmental effects of the disposal or release of petroleum or chemical substances at various sites, install additional controls or make other modifications to certain emission sources, equipment or facilities.

Future expenditures may be required to comply with the Clean Air Act and other federal, state and local requirements for our various sites, including our refineries, tank farms, pipelines and currently and previously owned or operated terminal and retail station properties. The impact of these legislative and regulatory requirements, including any greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program or low carbon fuel standards, could result in increased compliance costs, additional operating restrictions on our business and an increase in the cost of the products we manufacture, which could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, consolidated financial position, or results of operations.

The Energy Independence and Security Act was enacted into federal law in December 2007 creating a second Renewable Fuels Standard (“RFS2”) requiring the total volume of renewable transportation fuels (including ethanol and advanced biofuels) sold or introduced in the U.S. to reach 20.5 billion gallons in 2015 and to increase to 36.0 billion gallons by 2022. These requirements could reduce future demand growth for petroleum products that we manufacture. In the near term, the RFS2 presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for the ethanol, alternative fuel and refining and marketing industries. We are currently meeting the RFS2 requirements through a combination of RINs that were carried over from prior periods, blending renewable fuels obtained from third parties and purchases of RINs in the open market. The spending related to the purchases of RINs for 2016 was not material to our operations and the spending for 2017 is not expected to be material based on our operations and the current regulatory environment. Actual costs related to RINs may differ due to changes in the market price of RINs and the ultimate destinations of our products. Additional expenditures could be required to logistically accommodate the increased use of renewable transportation fuels. While we cannot currently estimate the ultimate impact of this statute and implementing its regulations for future blending mandates, and currently believe that the outcome will not have a material impact on our liquidity or financial position, the ultimate outcome could have a material impact on our results of operations.

52 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In California, Assembly Bill 32 (“AB 32”) created a statewide cap on greenhouse gas emissions by requiring that the state return to 1990 emission levels by 2020. In 2016, Senate Bill 32 (“SB 32”) set a new emissions reduction target of 40% below 1990 levels by 2030. AB 32 focuses on using market mechanisms, such as a cap-and-trade program and a low carbon fuel standard (“LCFS”), to achieve emissions reduction targets. The LCFS became effective in January 2010 and requires a 10% reduction in the carbon intensity of gasoline and diesel fuel by 2020. In 2011, CARB approved cap-and-trade requirements that became effective in January 2013, and all of AB 32 related regulations are to be fully implemented by 2020. In December 2011, a U.S. District Court ruled that the LCFS violates the U.S. Constitution. CARB appealed the decision and, on September 18, 2013, the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the lower court’s decision and remanded the case to the lower court to rule on whether the ethanol provisions of the LCFS are unconstitutional. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the lower court’s ruling on the LCFS, and the implementation and implications of AB 32 and SB 32 will take many years to realize. On January 1, 2015, transportation fuels were brought into the California cap-and-trade program, making fuel suppliers responsible for carbon emission from their products. The cost for carbon emissions is being passed through to customers. While we believe that the cap and trade requirements will not materially impact our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations, we cannot currently predict the impact of the LCFS and other AB 32 or expected SB 32-related regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES. We are incurring and expect to continue to incur expenses for environmental remediation liabilities at a number of currently and previously owned or operated refining, pipeline, terminal and retail station properties. We have accrued liabilities totaling $227 million and $255 million, including $22 million and $33 million for TLLP, at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.

On October 17, 2016, the U.S. 5th Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the July 10, 2015 federal court order denying coverage pursuant to an insurance policy for environmental remediation liabilities at our Martinez refinery. In November 2016, the Court of Appeals denied our petitions for a rehearing. The liabilities are included in our accruals as we have not recognized possible insurance recoveries under the policies. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our environmental obligations.

OTHER MATTERS

In the ordinary course of business, we become party to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and governmental investigations, including environmental, regulatory and other matters. Large, and sometimes unspecified, damages or penalties may be sought from us in some matters. We have not established accruals for these matters unless a loss is probable and the amount of loss is currently estimable.

WASHINGTON REFINERY FIRE.  The naphtha hydrotreater unit at our Washington refinery was involved in a fire in April 2010, which fatally injured seven employees and rendered the unit inoperable. The Washington State Department of Labor & Industries (“L&I”) initiated an investigation of the incident. L&I completed its investigation in October 2010, issued a citation and assessed approximately a $2 million fine, which we appealed. We disagree with L&I’s characterizations of operations at our Washington refinery and believe, based on available evidence and scientific reviews, that many of the agency’s conclusions are mistaken. We filed an appeal of the citation in January 2011. In separate September 2013, November 2013 and February 2015 orders, the Board of Industrial Insurance Appeals (“BIIA”) granted partial summary judgment in our favor rejecting 33 of the original 44 allegations in the citation as lacking legal or evidentiary support. The hearing on the remaining 11 allegations concluded in July 2016, and we expect the judge to issue a recommended decision for the BIIA’s review in 2017. While we cannot currently estimate the final amount or timing of its resolution of this matter, we have established an accrual based on our best estimate at this time.

ENVIRONMENTAL. We have investigated conditions at certain active wastewater treatment units at our Martinez refinery pursuant to an order received in 2004 from the San Francisco Bay Regional Water Quality Control Board that named us as well as two previous owners of the Martinez refinery. We cannot currently estimate the amount of the ultimate resolution of the order, but we believe it will not have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

On October 26, 2016, the Utah Supreme Court rejected the Utah Physicians for a Healthy Environment’s and the Utah Chapter of the Sierra Club’s (“Petitioners”) challenge of an air permit issued by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality (“UDEQ”) to our Salt Lake City refinery in September 2012. Petitioners had filed a Request for Agency Action (the “Request”) with UDEQ challenging UDEQ’s permitting of our refinery conversion project alleging that the permit did not conform to the requirements of the Clean Air Act. After proceedings before an administrative law judge and the Executive Director of UDEQ’s subsequent dismissal of Petitioners’ Request, Petitioners filed a petition for review with the Utah Court of Appeals in December 2014, and the Court of Appeals certified the case to the Utah Supreme Court. On December 27, 2016 the Utah Supreme Court denied the Petitioners’ petition for rehearing.

  December 31, 2016 | 53

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

In response to incidents in February and March 2014 at our Martinez refinery involving sulfuric acid exposure at the Alkylation Unit, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency is conducting an investigation to evaluate the Martinez refinery’s compliance with certain federal environmental acts and the Risk Management Plan requirements under the Clean Air Act. While we cannot currently predict the timing and the resolution of this investigation, we believe the outcome will not have a material impact on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.

TAX. We are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign tax laws and regulations. Newly enacted tax laws and regulations, and changes in existing tax laws and regulations, could result in increased expenditures in the future. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our tax matters.

LONG-TERM COMMITMENTS

During the ordinary course of business, we enter into contractual commitments for purchases associated with the operation of our refineries along with other debt service and lease arrangements (see Notes 12 and 15 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information). We also have minimum contractual spending requirements for certain capital projects. The contractual commitments detailed below do not include our contractual obligations to TLLP under our various fee-based commercial agreements as these related-party transactions are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. 

SUMMARY OF CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS (in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes maturities of principal and interest payments, excluding capital lease obligations. Amounts and timing may be different from our estimated commitments due to potential voluntary debt prepayments and borrowings. Interest payments assume the interest rate in effect as of December 31, 2016.

(b)Capital lease obligations include amounts classified as interest. Operating lease obligations primarily represent our future minimum noncancellable lease commitments. Operating lease obligations primarily include lease arrangements with initial or remaining noncancellable terms in excess of one year and are not reduced by minimum rentals to be received by us under subleases.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(d)Represents long-term commitments primarily for the transportation of crude oil, refined products and NGLs as well as to purchase industrial gases, chemical processing services and utilities at our refineries. These purchase obligations are based on the contract’s minimum volume requirements.

(e)Minimum contractual spending requirements for certain capital projects.

We also have other noncurrent liabilities pertaining to our defined benefit plans and other postretirement benefits, environmental liabilities and asset retirement obligations. With the exception of amounts classified as current, there is uncertainty as to the timing of future cash flows related to these obligations. As such, we have excluded the future cash flows from the contractual commitments table above. See additional information on pension and other postretirement benefits, environmental liabilities and asset retirement obligations in Notes 14 and 15, respectively, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

In addition, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows with our unrecognized tax benefits, with the exception of amounts classified as current, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement. Accordingly, we have excluded from the table $6 million of unrecognized tax benefits recorded as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Related to these unrecognized tax benefits, and also excluded from the table, is a liability for potential interest and penalties of $2 million at December 31, 2016. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for further information.

54 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

PENSION FUNDING

We provide a qualified defined benefit retirement plan for all eligible employees, with benefits based age and compensation. Our long-term expected return on plan assets is 6.50% as of December 31, 2016, and the actual return on our funded employee pension plan assets was a $30 million, or 7.1%, gain in 2016 and a $15 million, or 3.8%, loss in 2015. Based on a 4.12% discount rate and fair values of plan assets as of December 31, 2016, the assets in our funded employee pension plan were equal to approximately 54% of the projected benefit obligation. For funding purposes, the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act, as signed into law in July 2012 and later modified by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (“BBA”) stipulates that the discount rate must remain within a specified corridor of a 25-year average corporate bond rate, with such corridor widening from 10% to 30% between 2012 and 2024. On the BBA basis, the adjusted funding target attainment percentage (a funding status measure defined under applicable pension funding regulations) was 101% at January 1, 2016. Although our funded employee retirement plan fully meets all of the funding requirements under applicable laws and regulations, we contributed $60 million during 2016 to improve the plan’s funded status. Future contributions are affected by returns on plan assets, discount rates, employee demographics, regulatory environments and other factors. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for additional information on our benefit plans.

ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which require us to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. For additional information concerning certain estimates and assumptions, see the respective footnotes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. We believe that the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting policies, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective and complex judgments.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS. Long-lived assets (which include property, plant, and equipment, intangible assets with defined useful lives, deferred refinery turnaround and catalyst costs) are evaluated for potential impairment when an asset disposition is probable or when there are indicators of impairment (for example, current period operating losses combined with a history of operating losses or a temporary shutdown of a refinery) and, if so, assessing whether the asset net book values are recoverable from estimated future undiscounted cash flows. The actual amount of an impairment loss to be recorded, if any, is equal to the amount by which the asset’s net book value exceeds its fair market value. Fair market value is based on the present values of estimated future cash flows in the absence of quoted market prices. Estimates of future cash flows and fair market values of assets require subjective assumptions with regard to several factors, including an assessment of global market conditions, future operating results and forecasts of the remaining useful lives of the assets. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Providing sensitivity analysis if other assumptions were used in performing the impairment evaluations is not practicable due to the significant number of assumptions involved in the estimates.

GOODWILL AND OTHER IDENTIFIED INTANGIBLE ASSETS WITH INDEFINITE LIVES. Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently should an event occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. Such events or circumstances may be a significant change in business climate, economic and industry trends, legal factors, negative operating performance indicators, significant competition, changes in strategy, or disposition of a reporting unit or a portion thereof. Goodwill impairment testing is performed at the reporting unit level on November 1 of each year and when circumstances change that might indicate impairment.

We test goodwill for impairment by performing an optional qualitative assessment process and/or using a two-step quantitative assessment process. If we choose to perform a qualitative assessment process and determine it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the carrying value of the net assets is more than the fair value of the reporting unit, the two-step quantitative assessment process is then performed; otherwise, no further testing is required. We may elect not to perform the qualitative assessment process and, instead, proceed directly to the two-step quantitative assessment process. For reporting units where the two-step quantitative assessment process is performed, the first step involves comparing the carrying value of net assets, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill is not considered impaired and the second step of the process is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its fair value, the second step measures the impairment loss, if any.

  December 31, 2016 | 55

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  

We elected to perform our annual goodwill impairment analysis using a two-step quantitative assessments process on the goodwill recorded in five reporting units of our TLLP segment and the qualitative assessment process on the remaining goodwill in the reporting units in our other two segments as of November 1, 2016.

As part of our two-step quantitative goodwill impairment process for TLLP’s five reporting units, we engaged a third-party appraisal firm to assist in the determination of estimated fair value for each reporting unit. This determination includes estimating the fair value of each reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors for each reporting unit, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows and discount rates. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. The determination of the fair value of the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the selection of appropriate peer group companies, control premiums appropriate for acquisitions in the industries in which we compete, the discount rates, terminal growth rates, and forecasts of revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures.

Factors utilized in the qualitative assessment include, among other things, macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, company specific operating results and other relevant entity-specific events affecting individual reporting units.

We determined that no impairment charges resulted from our November 1, 2016 goodwill impairment assessment. Furthermore, the fair value of each of the five reporting units tested in step one of the goodwill impairment test were materially in excess of the carrying value, and as such, we were not required to perform step two. There were no impairments of goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

We evaluate our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and at other times when an event occurs or circumstances change such that an impairment may exist. In evaluating our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value. If, after completing the qualitative assessment, we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset is greater than its carrying amount, the asset is not impaired. If we conclude it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying value, we would then proceed to a quantitative impairment test, which consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible assets to their carrying amounts. There were no impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

INCOME TAXES. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we must assess the likelihood that our deferred income tax assets will be recovered through future taxable income. We must establish a valuation allowance to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely. Significant management judgment is required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred income tax assets. We have recorded a valuation allowance of $26 million on certain federal and state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as of December 31, 2016, most of which were obtained with the acquisition of Virent. The valuation allowance is primarily due to certain tax restrictions placed on Virent’s loss carryforwards after the change in control. The valuation allowance on other tax credit carryforwards pre-dating the Virent acquisition is based on our estimate of taxable income in each jurisdiction in which we operate and the period over which deferred income tax assets will be recoverable. We may need to establish an additional valuation allowance if actual results differ from these estimates or we make adjustments to these estimates in future periods. We also recognize the financial statement effects of a tax position when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination. 

PENSION AND OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS. Accounting for pensions and other postretirement benefits involves several assumptions and estimates including discount rates, expected rate of return on plan assets, rates of compensation, health care cost trends, inflation, retirement rates and mortality rates. We must assume a rate of return on funded pension plan assets in order to estimate our obligations under our defined benefit plans. Due to the nature of these calculations, we engage an actuarial firm to assist with these estimates and the calculation of certain employee benefit expenses. We record an asset for our plans overfunded status or a liability if the plans are underfunded. The funded status represents the difference between the fair value of our plans’ assets and the projected benefit obligations. While we believe the assumptions we used are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions would affect pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations. We determine the discount rate primarily by reference to the effective yields on high quality corporate bonds that have a comparable cash flow pattern to the expected payments to be made under our plans. The expected return on plan assets is based upon the weighted averages of the expected long-term rates of return for the broad categories of investments held in our plans and also uses a three-year average of the market value of plan assets. These assumptions can have a significant effect on the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements.

56 | Tesoro Corporation  

  MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

ONE-PERCENTAGE-POINT CHANGE IN EXPECTED RATE OF RETURN AND DISCOUNT RATE

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 for more information regarding costs and assumptions.

ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES. We record environmental liabilities when environmental assessments and/or proposed environmental remedies are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Usually, the timing of our accruals coincides with assessing the liability and then completing a feasibility study or committing to a formal plan of action. When we complete our analysis or when we commit to a plan of action, we accrue a liability based on the minimum range of the expected costs, unless we consider another amount more likely. We base our cost estimates on the extent of remedial actions required by applicable governing agencies, experience gained from similar environmental projects and the amounts to be paid by other responsible parties.

Accruals for our environmental liabilities require judgment due to the uncertainties related to the magnitude of the liability and timing of the remediation effort. Our environmental liability estimates are subject to change due to potential changes in environmental laws, regulations or interpretations, additional information related to the extent and nature of the liability, and potential improvements in remediation technologies. We do not discount our estimated liabilities to present value. An estimate of the sensitivity for changes in those factors is not practicable due to the number of contingencies that must be assessed, the number of underlying assumptions, and the wide range of possible outcomes.

ACQUISITIONS. We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of these items requires management’s judgment, the utilization of independent valuation experts, and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions with respect to the timing and amounts of future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, market prices, and asset lives, among other items. The judgments made in the determination of the estimated fair value assigned to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, as well as the estimated useful life of each asset and the duration of each liability, can materially impact the financial statements in periods after acquisition, such as through depreciation and amortization.

While management believes those expectations and assumptions are reasonable, they are inherently uncertain. Unanticipated market or macroeconomic events and circumstances may occur, which could affect the accuracy or validity of the estimates and assumptions.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND DISCLOSURES

New accounting standards and disclosures are discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK