ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

FLIR was founded in 1978, originally providing infrared imaging systems that were installed on vehicles for use in conducting energy audits. Later, we expanded our focus to other applications and markets for our technology, in particular, designing and selling stabilized thermal imaging systems for aircraft used by law enforcement. We have since grown substantially, due to increasing demand for infrared products across a growing number of markets, and having executed a series of acquisitions. Today we are one of the world leaders in the design, manufacture and marketing of thermal imaging and stabilized camera systems for a wide variety of applications in the commercial, industrial and government markets, internationally as well as domestically.  

Our Thermography business primarily consists of the design and manufacture of hand-held thermal imaging systems that can detect and measure minute temperature differences, which are useful for a wide variety of industrial and commercial applications. Uses for our Thermography products include high-end predictive and preventative maintenance, research and development, test and measurement, leak detection and scientific analysis. Our Thermography products are primarily produced at our facilities in Stockholm. A growing distribution network has enabled us to penetrate existing and emerging markets and applications worldwide.  

Our Commercial Vision Systems (“CVS”) business is focused on the development, manufacture and sale of generally lower cost uncooled products to emerging commercial markets where the primary requirement is to see at night or in adverse conditions. These markets are developing rapidly and include such uses as automotive night vision, recreational marine, firefighting, airborne law enforcement and commercial security. CVS also sells camera cores, readout integrated circuits and other sub-components to OEMs in certain markets. Our infrared sensor business, which supplies both internal and external customers, is also part of CVS. Vertical integration into infrared sensors provides us with the ability to design and produce infrared detectors, allowing us to reduce our costs and open new markets. Our CVS products are primarily produced at our Santa Barbara facility.  

Our Government Systems business is focused primarily on markets where very high performance is required. The primary market for these products is government customers, who use our hand-held and fixed mounted products for such applications as force protection, counter terrorism, search and rescue, perimeter security, navigation safety, law enforcement, narcotics detection, maritime and border patrol, and anti-piracy. Our Government Systems products are primarily produced at our Portland, Boston and Stockholm facilities. A substantial portion of our revenue in the Government Systems business is derived from sales to government agencies and we are continuing to expand our military program business, both in the US and internationally.  

International revenue accounted for approximately 39 percent, 45 percent and, 44 percent of our revenue in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of revenue in the future. We have exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations and changing dynamics of foreign competitiveness based on variations in the value of the US dollar relative to other currencies. Factors contributing to this variability include significant manufacturing activity in Stockholm, significant sales denominated in currencies other than the US dollar, and cross currency fluctuations between such currencies as the US dollar, Euro and Swedish Kroner. During 2006 and 2007, there were significant fluctuations in the values of the major currencies in which we conduct business, in particular, a weakening of the US dollar against the Euro and the Swedish Kroner. The impact of those fluctuations is reflected throughout our consolidated financial statements, but in the aggregate, did not have a material impact on our results of operations.  

We typically experience longer payment cycles on our international sales, which can have an adverse impact upon our liquidity. In addition, substantial portions of our operations are conducted outside the United States, including manufacturing in Stockholm and sales operations worldwide. International sales and operations may be subject to risks such as the imposition of governmental controls, export license requirements, restrictions on the export of critical technology, political and economic instability, trade restrictions, labor union activities, changes in tariffs and taxes, difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, and general economic conditions.  

22  

Table of Contents 

We experience fluctuations in orders and sales due to seasonal variations and customer sales cycles, such as the seasonal pattern of contracting by the US and certain foreign governments, the frequent requirement by certain customers to take delivery of equipment prior to the end of December due to funding considerations, and the tendency of commercial enterprises to fully utilize annual capital budgets prior to expiration. Such events have resulted and could continue to result in certain fluctuations in quarterly results in the future. As a result of such quarterly fluctuations in operating results, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

This discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, inventories, goodwill, warranty obligations, contingencies and income taxes on an on-going basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the related judgments and estimates affect the preparation of our consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue recognition. The majority of our revenue is recognized upon shipment of the product to the customer at a fixed or determinable price and with a reasonable assurance of collection, passage of title to the customer as indicated by the shipping terms and fulfillment of all significant obligations, pursuant to guidance provided by Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, “Revenue Recognition,” issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in December 2003.  

We design, market and sell our products primarily as commercial, off-the-shelf products. Many of our Government Systems and Commercial Vision Systems customers, particularly those who use our airborne systems, request different system configurations, based on standard options or accessories that we offer. In general, our revenue arrangements do not involve acceptance provisions based upon customer specified acceptance criteria. In those limited circumstances when customer specified acceptance criteria exist, revenue is deferred until customer acceptance if we cannot demonstrate that the system meets those specifications prior to shipment. For any contracts with multiple elements (i.e., training, installation, additional parts) undelivered at the end of a reporting period, we recognize revenue on the delivered elements only after we have determined that the delivered elements have stand alone value and any undelivered elements have objective and reliable evidence of fair value. In addition, judgments are required in evaluating the credit worthiness of our customers. Credit is not extended to customers and revenue is not recognized until we have determined that collectibility is reasonably assured.  

We also have a limited number of design and development contracts, principally with governmental customers for which revenues and related costs are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method.  

Allowance for doubtful accounts. Our policy is to maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Credit limits are established through a process of reviewing the financial history and stability of each customer. Where appropriate, we obtain credit rating reports and financial statements of the customer when determining or modifying their credit limits. We regularly evaluate the collectibility of our trade receivable balances based on a combination of factors. When a customer’s account balance becomes past due, we initiate dialogue with the customer to determine the cause. If it is determined that the customer will be unable to meet its financial obligation to us, such as in the case of a bankruptcy filing, deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial position or other material events   

23  

Table of Contents 

 impacting their business, we record a specific allowance to reduce the related receivable to the amount we expect to recover given all information presently available. Actual write-offs during the past three years have not been material to our results of operations.  

We also record an allowance for all other customers based on certain other factors including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience with individual customers. As of December 31, 2007, our accounts receivable balance of $203.4 million is reported net of allowances for doubtful accounts of $1.3 million. We believe our reported allowances at December 31, 2007, are adequate. If the financial conditions of those customers were to deteriorate, however, resulting in their inability to make payments, we may need to record additional allowances that would result in additional selling, general and administrative expenses being recorded for the period in which such determination is made.  

Inventory. As a designer and manufacturer of high technology infrared systems, we are exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventories becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. These factors include, but are not limited to, technological changes in our markets, our ability to meet changing customer requirements, competitive pressures in products and prices, and the availability of key components from our suppliers. Our policy is to record inventory write-downs when conditions exist that suggest that our inventories may be in excess of anticipated demand or are obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. We regularly evaluate the ability to realize the value of our inventories based on a combination of factors including the following: historical usage rates, forecasted sales or usage, product end of life dates, estimated current and future market values and new product introductions. Purchasing requirements and alternative usage avenues are explored within these processes to mitigate inventory exposure. When recorded, our write-downs are intended to reduce the carrying value of our inventories to their net realizable value and establish a new cost basis. As of December 31, 2007, our inventories of $179.4 million are stated net of inventory write-downs of $21.4 million. If actual demand for our products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those that we project, additional inventory write-downs may be required in the future.  

Goodwill. We have recorded goodwill in connection with our business acquisitions. We review goodwill in June of each year, or on an interim basis if required, for impairment to determine if events or changes in business conditions indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Such reviews assess the fair value of the assets based upon our estimates of the future cash flows we expect the assets to generate within the boundaries of the applicable business divisions of the Company. Our current review indicates that no adjustments are necessary for the goodwill assets, which have a carrying value of $176.2 million as of December 31, 2007.  

Product warranties. Our products are sold with warranty provisions that require us to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of our products over a specified period of time, generally twelve months, at no cost to our customers. Our policy is to establish warranty reserves at levels that represent our estimate of the costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements at the time that revenue is recognized. We believe that our recorded liability of $6.6 million at December 31, 2007 is adequate to cover our future cost of materials, labor and overhead for the servicing of our products sold through that date. If actual product failures or material or service delivery costs differ from our estimates, our warranty liability would need to be revised accordingly.  

Contingencies. We are subject to the possibility of loss contingencies arising in the normal course of business. We consider the likelihood of loss or impairment of an asset or the incurrence of a liability, as well as our ability to reasonably estimate the amount of loss in determining loss contingencies. An estimated loss is accrued when it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. We regularly evaluate current information available to us to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted.  

Income taxes. We record our deferred tax assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. Valuation allowances against deferred tax assets are recorded when a determination is made that the deferred tax assets are not likely to be realized in the future. In making that determination, on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis, we estimate our future taxable income based upon historical operating results and external market data. Future levels of taxable income are dependent upon, but not limited to, general economic conditions, competitive   

24  

Table of Contents 

 pressures, and other factors beyond our control. As of December 31, 2007, we have determined that no valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets of $13.3 million is required. If we should determine that we may be unable to realize our deferred tax assets to the extent reported, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination is made.  

Results of Operations  

The following table sets forth for the indicated periods certain items as a percentage of revenue:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005  

Revenue. Revenue for 2007 totaled $779.4 million, an increase of 35.5 percent over the $575.0 million of revenue in 2006. Revenue from the Thermography business segment increased 19.4 percent from $219.2 million in 2006 to $261.8 million in 2007. The increase in Thermography revenue was primarily due to the introduction of new products and increased unit sales in most of our existing product lines. Revenue from the Government Systems business segment increased 47.9 percent from $258.4 million in 2006 to $382.3 million in 2007. The increase was primarily due to significant increases in unit sales of most of our products. Revenue from the Commercial Vision Systems business segment increased 38.9 percent from $97.3 million in 2006 to $135.2 million in 2007. The increase in Commercial Vision Systems revenue was also primarily due to an increase in unit sales across all major product lines of the segment.  

Revenue for 2006 totaled $575.0 million, an increase of 13.1 percent over the $508.6 million of revenue in 2005. Revenue from the Thermography business segment increased 19.4 percent from $183.6 million in 2005 to $219.2 million in 2006. The increase in Thermography revenue was primarily due to sales of the InfraCAM® product which was launched in 2006 and increased unit sales in most of our other product lines. Revenue from the Government Systems business segment increased 7.1 percent from $241.4 million in 2005 to $258.4 million in 2006. The increase in Government Systems revenue was primarily due to an increase in sales of gimbaled products, partially offset by a decrease in sales of hand-held and fixed mounted products. Revenue from the Commercial Vision Systems business segment increased 16.4 percent from $83.6 million in 2005 to $97.3 million in 2006. The increase in Commercial Vision Systems revenue was due to increased unit sales across all product lines.  

International revenue in 2007 totaled $301.9 million, representing 38.7 percent of revenue. This compares with international revenue in 2006 which totaled $259.9 million, representing 45.2 percent of revenue and $221.7   

25  

Table of Contents 

 million in 2005, representing 43.6 percent of revenue. While the sales mix between domestic and international sales may fluctuate slightly from year to year, we anticipate the mix to be approximately 55 percent to 60 percent domestic and 40 percent to 45 percent international on a long-term basis.  

Gross profit. Gross profit in 2007 was 55.6 percent of revenue, compared to 54.8 percent of revenue in 2006. The increase in gross profit as a percentage of revenue was primarily due to cost efficiencies realized by increased volumes in our Government Systems and Commercial Vision Systems manufacturing facilities.  

Gross profit in 2006 was 54.8 percent of revenue, compared to 54.4 percent of revenue in 2005. The slight increase in gross profit was primarily due to the product mix within our three business segments and cost efficiencies in our Santa Barbara operations, offset by stock-based compensation expense of $1.2 million included in our 2006 cost of goods sold.  

Cost of goods sold includes materials, labor and overhead costs incurred in the manufacturing of products and services sold in the period. Material costs include raw materials, purchased components and sub-assemblies, outside processing and inbound freight costs. Labor and overhead costs consist of direct and indirect manufacturing costs, including wages and fringe benefits, operating supplies, depreciation, occupancy costs, and purchasing, receiving and inspection costs.  

Research and development. Research and development expenses were $72.5 million, or 9.3 percent of revenue, in 2007 compared to $60.6 million, or 10.5 percent of revenue, in 2006. The increase in research and development expenses was due to the continued investment in new product development in all business segments to enable future growth. We believe that spending levels are sufficient to support the development of new products and the continued growth of the business. We expect research and development expenses to be approximately 10 percent of revenue on a long-term basis.  

Research and development expenses were $60.6 million, or 10.5 percent of revenue, in 2006 compared to $51.5 million, or 10.1 percent of revenue, in 2005. The increase in research and development expenses was due to the growth in the business and the impact of stock-based compensation of $3.1 million in 2006.  

We have also incurred expenses associated with customer funded design and development contracts. Such expenses were $8.9 million in 2007, $11.6 million in 2006 and $10.6 million in 2005. These expenses are reported as cost of goods sold since the related funding is reported as revenue.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $168.9 million, or 21.7 percent of revenue, in 2007 compared to $117.4 million, or 20.5 percent of revenue in 2006. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was due to the continued growth in the business, including costs associated with new product launches and increased performance incentive and stock-based compensation costs. In addition, during 2007 we incurred significantly higher legal and accounting costs related to the investigation of our historical stock option practices and various other legal matters (See Note 11, “Contingencies,” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). We anticipate selling, general and administrative expenses in the future to increase at a slower rate than revenue.  

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $117.4 million, or 20.5 percent of revenue, in 2006 compared to $99.2 million, or 19.5 percent of revenue in 2005. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was due to the growth in the business and the impact of stock-based compensation of $6.6 million in 2006.  

Interest expense. Interest expense totaled $10.2 million, $9.0 million and $7.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Interest expense is primarily attributable to the accrual of interest on the convertible notes that were issued in June 2003, the amortization of costs related to the issuance of the notes and interest on short-term borrowings.  

26  

Table of Contents 

Interest income. Interest income was $5.6 million, $3.4 million and $2.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in interest income was primarily due to an increase in invested cash.  

Other income, net. We reported other income of $3.9 million, $1.3 million and $1.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The other income is primarily currency gains on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our European operations.  

Income taxes. Our income tax provision was $54.4 million, $31.7 million, and $31.5 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective tax rates for 2007, 2006 and 2005 were 28.5 percent, 23.9 percent, and 25.7 percent, respectively. The mix in taxable income between our US and foreign operations impacted the income tax provisions in each of these years. Our effective tax rate is lower than the US Federal tax rate of 35 percent because of lower foreign tax rates, the effect of foreign tax credits and other federal and state tax credits.  

At December 31, 2007, we had US tax net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) totaling approximately $3.0 million and state tax NOLs totaling approximately $7.3 million which expire in the years 2019 through 2025. Additionally, we have federal tax credits available aggregating $2.0 million and various state tax credits available aggregating $0.3 million, net of federal benefit, which expire in the years 2008 through 2017. The utilization of stock option exercise deductions is generally accounted for as a direct increase in additional paid-in capital rather than as a reduction in our income tax provision.  

Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 “Accounting for Income Taxes” requires that the tax benefits described above be recorded as assets when the benefits are more likely than not to be recognized. To the extent that we assess the realization of such assets to not be more likely than not, a valuation allowance is required to be recorded. Based on this guidance, we believe that the net deferred tax assets of $13.3 million reflected on the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet, are realizable based on future forecasts of taxable income over a relatively short time horizon and therefore, we have not recorded a valuation allowance.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

At December 31, 2007, we had $203.7 million in cash and cash equivalents compared to $138.6 million at December 31, 2006. The increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to cash provided from operations and proceeds from the exercise of stock options, offset by the acquisition of Extech Instruments Corporation, capital expenditures and repayments of borrowings under our credit agreement.  

Cash provided by operating activities in 2007 totaled $116.1 million compared to $115.2 million in 2006. The slight increase in cash provided from operating activities was primarily due to an increase in net earnings, offset by increases in accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets.  

At December 31, 2007, we had accounts receivable in the amount of $203.4 million compared to $167.5 million at December 31, 2006. The increase of $35.9 million in the receivable balance was primarily due to the increase in revenue in the fourth quarter of 2007 compared to the fourth quarter of 2006.  

At December 31, 2007, we had inventories of $179.4 million compared to $135.9 million at December 31, 2006. The 32 percent increase in inventories was primarily due to an increase in purchases of materials to support business growth, increased backlog of orders and new product introductions.  

At December 31, 2007, we had prepaid expenses and other current assets of $53.7 million compared to $29.2 million at December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily due to estimated tax payments for 2007 made to both federal and foreign jurisdictions, increases in vendor advances and increases in sales demonstration units related to recently introduced products.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Accounts payable increased from $40.6 million at December 31, 2006 to $54.0 million at December 31, 2007. The increase primarily relates to the increase in inventories and overall Company growth.  

Accrued payroll and related liabilities increased from $25.8 million at December 31, 2006 to $39.4 million at December 31, 2007. The increase was primarily due to the timing of payroll payments, increased headcount and increased annual incentive accruals.  

Accrued income taxes payable decreased from $17.3 million at December 31, 2006 to $3.8 million at December 31, 2007. The decrease relates to prepayments of estimated taxes in foreign jurisdictions that were greater than the expected 2007 tax liability in those jurisdictions.  

Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 totaled $87.5 million, primarily consisting of capital expenditures, principally for expansions and improvements in most of our manufacturing facilities, the purchase of equipment to be utilized in the fabrication of microbolometers at a third-party site, costs associated with the continued implementation of an enterprise resource planning system and the acquisition of Extech Instruments Corporation. Cash used for investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2006 totaled $43.4 million, primarily consisting of capital expenditures, including the purchase of a facility in Orlando, Florida, expansions and improvements in our manufacturing facilities and the implementation of an enterprise resource planning system.  

On October 6, 2006, we signed a Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) with Bank of America, N.A., Union Bank of California, N.A., U.S. Bank National Association and other Lenders. The Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million, five-year revolving line of credit. We have the right, subject to certain conditions including approval of additional commitments by qualified lenders, to increase the line of credit by an additional $150 million until October 6, 2011. The Credit Agreement includes a $100 million sublimit multicurrency option, permitting us and certain of our designated subsidiaries to borrow in Euro, Kroner, Sterling and other agreed upon currencies. Under the Credit Agreement, borrowings will bear interest based upon the prime lending rate of the Bank of America or Eurodollar rates with a provision for a spread over Eurodollar rates based upon the Company’s leverage ratio. The Eurodollar interest rate was 5.65 percent and the prime lending rate was 7.25 percent at December 31, 2007. These rates were 6.10 percent and 8.25 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2006. The Credit Agreement requires us to pay a commitment fee on the amount of unused credit at a rate, based on our leverage ratio, which ranges from 0.175 percent to 0.325 percent. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the commitment fee rate was 0.175 percent. The Credit Agreement contains five financial covenants that require the maintenance of certain leverage ratios, in addition to minimum levels of EBITDA and consolidated net worth, a maximum level of capital expenditures and, commencing December 31, 2009, a minimum liquidity of cash and availability under the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is collateralized by substantially all assets of the Company. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had $19.0 million and $45.5 million, respectively, outstanding under the Credit Agreement and were in compliance with all of the financial covenants. We had $6.6 million and $5.5 million of letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which reduces the total available credit.  

Our Sweden subsidiary has a 30 million Swedish Kroner (approximately $4.7 million) line of credit with an interest rate at 4.70 percent at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, the Company had no amounts outstanding on this line of credit. The 30 million Swedish Kroner line of credit is secured primarily by accounts receivable and inventories of the Sweden subsidiary and is subject to automatic renewal on an annual basis.  

In June 2003, we issued $210 million of 3.0 percent senior convertible notes due in 2023 in a private offering pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $203.9 million. Issuance costs are being amortized over a period of seven years. Interest is payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 of each year. The holders of the notes may convert all or some of their notes into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 90.1224 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes prior to the maturity date in certain circumstances. We may redeem for cash all or part of the notes on or after June 8, 2010.  

28  

Table of Contents 

The convertible notes are eligible for conversion at the option of the note holders. As of December 31, 2007, notes with a value of $4,000 have been converted into 360 shares of the Company’s common stock. We do not currently anticipate any more conversions of these notes before 2010.  

We believe that our existing cash combined with the cash we anticipate to generate from operating activities, and our available credit facilities and financing available from other sources will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements for the foreseeable future. We do not have any significant commitments nor are we aware of any significant events or conditions that are likely to have a material impact on our liquidity or capital resources.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

As of December 31, 2007, we leased our non-owned facilities under operating lease agreements. We also leased certain operating machinery and equipment and office equipment under operating lease agreements. Except for these operating lease agreements, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.  

Contractual Obligations  

As of December 31, 2007, our contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Principal and interest obligations on our long-term debt are based upon the assumption that all convertible notes are held to their maturity in 2023. Post-retirement obligations are based upon actuarial assumptions. Actual payments may differ in terms of both timing and amounts.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements.  

29  

Table of Contents 

  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK