Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General Overview

Overview

We own, operate, and lease shared wireless infrastructure. See "Item 1. Business" for a further discussion of our business, including our long-term strategy, our REIT status, certain key terms of our lease agreements, and growth trends in the wireless industry. Site rental revenues represented 82% of our 2015 consolidated net revenues. The vast majority of our site rental revenues is of a recurring nature and has been contracted for in a prior year.

Business Fundamentals and Results

The following are certain highlights of our business fundamentals and results as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015:

•Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes (see "Item 1. Business—2015 Industry Highlights and Company Developments—REIT Election").

•Potential growth resulting from wireless network expansion and new entrants

◦We expect wireless carriers will continue their focus on improving network quality and expanding capacity by adding additional antennas or other equipment on our wireless infrastructure.

◦We expect existing and potential new wireless carrier demand for our wireless infrastructure will result from (1) new technologies, (2) increased usage of wireless applications (including mobile entertainment, mobile internet usage, and machine-to-machine applications), (3) adoption of other emerging and embedded wireless devices (including smartphones, laptops, tablets, and other devices), (4) increasing smartphone penetration, (5) wireless carrier focus on expanding quality and capacity, or (6) the availability of additional spectrum.

◦Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate additional tenancy, either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure.

◦Wireless carriers continue to invest in their networks.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪An approximate 6% increase from new leasing activity.

▪An approximate 3% increase from cash escalations.

▪An approximate 4% decrease in site rental revenues caused by the non-renewal of tenant leases, primarily resulting from Sprint's decommissioning of its legacy Nextel iDEN network.

•Site rental revenues under long-term tenant leases with contractual escalations

◦Initial terms of five to 15 years with multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Revenues predominately from large wireless carriers[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Majority of land interests under our towers under long-term control[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Relatively fixed wireless infrastructure operating costs 

◦Our wireless infrastructure operating costs tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation and are not typically influenced by tenant additions.

•Minimal sustaining capital expenditure requirements

◦Sustaining capital expenditures represented approximately 3% of net revenues.

•Debt portfolio with long-dated maturities extended over multiple years, with the majority of such debt having a fixed rate (see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a further discussion of our debt) 

◦After giving effect to our 2016 Refinancings described below, 81% of our debt has fixed rate coupons.

◦Our debt service coverage and leverage ratios were comfortably within their respective financial maintenance covenants. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt Covenants" for a further discussion of our debt covenants.

◦During the second quarter 2015, we (1) issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of the May 2015 tower revenue notes, (2) repaid $250.0 million of August 2010 tower revenue notes with an anticipated repayment date 

 23

of August 2015, (3) repaid all of the previously outstanding WCP securitized notes, and (4) repaid a portion of our outstanding borrowings under our previously outstanding 2012 Credit Facility. 

◦In January 2016, we completed a new senior unsecured $5.5 billion 2016 Credit Facility and utilized the proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay all outstanding borrowings under the previously outstanding 2012 Credit Facility. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facility."

◦In February 2016, we issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of investment grade senior unsecured notes and utilized the proceeds, along with cash on hand, to (1) repay in full all outstanding borrowings under the $1.0 billion Senior Unsecured 364-Day Revolving Credit Facility ("364-Day Facility")(and, in connection therewith, terminate all commitments thereunder), and (2) to repay $500.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the 2016 Revolver. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities."

◦Collectively, the completion of the 2016 Credit Facility, the repayment of the 2012 Credit Facility, the issuance of $1.5 billion senior unsecured notes and the use of proceeds from such notes are referred to herein as the "2016 Refinancings."

•Significant cash flows from operations

◦Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.8 billion.

◦We expect to grow our core business of providing access to our wireless infrastructure as a result of contractual escalators and anticipated demand for our wireless infrastructure.

•Returning cash flows provided by operations to stockholders in the form of dividends (see also "Item 1. Business")

◦During 2015, we paid common stock dividends totaling approximately $1.1 billion. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Common Stock Dividend" for a discussion of the increase to our quarterly dividend in the fourth quarter of 2015.

•Investing capital efficiently to grow long-term dividends per share (see also "Item 1. Business")

◦Discretionary capital expenditures of $804.0 million, including wireless infrastructure improvements in order to support additional site rentals, construction of wireless infrastructure, and land purchases. See also discussion of the Sunesys Acquisition below.

Common Stock Dividend

During each of the first three quarters of 2015, we paid a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.82 per share, totaling approximately $821.1 million. In October 2015, we increased our quarterly dividend, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, from an annual amount of $3.28 per share to an annual amount of $3.54 per share. As such, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.885 per share in October 2015, which represented an increase of 8% from the quarterly dividend declared during each of the first three quarters of 2015. We currently expect such dividends to result in aggregate annual cash payments of approximately $1.2 billion during the next 12 months. Over time, we expect to increase our dividend per share generally commensurate with our realized growth in cash flows. Future dividends are subject to the approval of our board of directors. See notes 12 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.

Sale of CCAL

In May 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our 77.6% owned Australian subsidiary, CCAL, to a consortium of investors led by Macquarie Infrastructure and Real Assets. On May 28, 2015, we completed the sale of CCAL. At closing, we received net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion after accounting for our ownership interest, repayment of intercompany debt owed to us by CCAL and estimated transaction fees and expenses, exclusive of the impact of foreign currency swaps related to the CCAL sale. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

As part of the sale of CCAL, in January 2016, we received an installment payment of approximately $124 million from the Buyer, inclusive of the impact of the related foreign currency swap (see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements). During the second quarter 2015, we used net proceeds from the sale of CCAL, together with net proceeds from the May 2015 tower revenue notes, to (1) repay $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of August 2010 tower revenue notes with an anticipated repayment date of August 2015, (2) repay all of the previously outstanding WCP securitized notes, (3) repay portions of outstanding borrowings under our previously outstanding 2012 Credit Facility, and (4) to pay related fees and expenses. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements.

We entered into foreign currency swaps to manage and reduce our foreign currency risk associated with the sale of CCAL. These swaps are not included in discontinued operations. See note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.

 24

Sunesys Acquisition

In April 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Sunesys for approximately $1.0 billion in cash, subject to certain limited adjustments. On August 4, 2015, we closed the Sunesys Acquisition utilizing $835.0 million in 2012 Revolver borrowings and cash on hand. Prior to the closing, Sunesys was a wholly owned subsidiary of Quanta Services, Inc., and a fiber services provider that owned or had rights to nearly 10,000 miles of fiber in major metropolitan markets across the U.S., including Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Chicago, Atlanta, Silicon Valley, and northern New Jersey. Approximately 60% of Sunesys' fiber miles were located in the top 10 BTAs. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.

Outlook Highlights

The following are certain highlights of our 2016 outlook that impact our business fundamentals described above.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We expect total capital expenditures for 2016 to equal or exceed 2015 levels with a continued increase in the construction of new small cells. We also expect sustaining capital expenditures of approximately 2% of net revenues for full year 2016.

 25

Results of Operations

The following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP") which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts (see "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).

Comparison of Consolidated Results

The following is a comparison of our 2015, 2014 and 2013 consolidated results of operations: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Percentage is not meaningful

(a)Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion, which are shown separately.

 26

Results of Operations

We have determined that presently, following the sale of CCAL, we have one reportable operating segment consisting of our U.S. operations, which is consistent with our current operational and financial reporting structure. Our financial results are currently reported to the chief operating decision maker and the board of directors in this manner. 

Prior to its sale in May 2015, CCAL, our previously 77.6% owned subsidiary that owned and operated towers in Australia, was a reportable segment. As a result of the sale of CCAL, our historical financial statements have been reclassified for all periods presented to include CCAL on a discontinued operations basis. See also "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Sale of CCAL." 

We will continue our evaluation of our operating segments following the disposition of CCAL, and our change in strategic focus primarily to our U.S. business. To the extent we make changes to our financial reporting or organizational structure, including the integration of the Sunesys Acquisition, we will evaluate any impact such changes may have to our segment reporting.

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate our operating performance and operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted ("Adjusted EBITDA"). Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector or other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See "Item 2. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for a discussion of our use of Adjusted EBITDA, including its definition and a reconciliation to net income (loss).

2015 and 2014. See note 4 in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the impact of the Sunesys Acquisition.

Net revenues for 2015 increased by $125.1 million, or 4%, from 2014. This increase in net revenues resulted from (1) an increase in site rental revenues of $151.8 million, or 5%, and (2) a decrease in network services and other revenues of $26.7 million, or 4%, in each case as compared to 2014. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight-line accounting, in no particular order: tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of tenant leases, escalations, construction of new wireless infrastructure including small cells, acquisitions, including the Sunesys Acquisition, and non-renewals of tenant leases, predominately Sprint's decommissioning of its legacy Nextel iDEN network. Tenant additions were influenced by our customers' ongoing efforts to improve network quality and capacity. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company" and "Item 1. Business—2015 Industry Highlights and Company Developments."

Site rental gross margins for 2015 increased by $94.1 million, or 5%, from 2014. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 5% increase in site rental revenues.

Network services and other revenues for 2015 decreased $26.7 million, or 4%, from 2014, and is a reflection of (1) the volume of activity from carrier network enhancements and (2) the volume and mix of network services and other work. Our network services offering is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long-term contracts. Network services and other gross margin for 2015 increased by $16.2 million, or 6%, from 2014, and is a reflection of changes in the volume and mix of network services and other work. 

General and administrative expenses for 2015 increased by $53.6 million, or 21%, from 2014 and represented 8% of net revenues in 2015 and 7% of net revenues in 2014. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges. See also note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in general and administrative expenses was related to the growth in our business, including the expansion in size of our wireless infrastructure portfolio primarily due to acquisitions and growth in small cells.

Adjusted EBITDA for 2015 increased by $67.9 million, or 3%, from 2014. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental activities, partially offset by the aforementioned increase in general and administrative expenses.

Depreciation, amortization, and accretion for 2015 increased by $50.4 million, or 5%, from 2014. This increase predominately resulted from capital expenditures and acquisitions, including the Sunesys Acquisition.

Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs decreased by $46.2 million, or 8%, from 2014 to 2015, primarily as a result of a $44.4 million decrease in the amortization of previously settled interest rate swaps.

As a result of repaying and redeeming certain of our debt, we incurred net losses of $4.2 million and $44.6 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings, see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

 27

Our acquisition and integration expenses for 2014 were $34.1 million and were related to our 2012 and 2013 acquisitions. See notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements.

Other income (expense) for 2015 was income of $57.0 million, compared to income of $12.0 million for 2014. This change was predominately a result of gains recorded during 2015 on foreign currency swaps that we entered into to manage and reduce our foreign currency risk related to our May 2015 sale of CCAL. See note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.

The benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2015 was a benefit of $51.5 million compared to a benefit of $11.2 million for 2014. For 2015, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to (1) our REIT status, including the dividends paid deduction, and (2) the de-recognition of net deferred tax liabilities related to the inclusion of small cells in the REIT in January 2016, which resulted in a non-cash income tax benefit of $33.8 million. For 2014, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to our REIT status, including the dividends paid deduction. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, decreased from 2014 to 2015 due to the sale of CCAL occurring mid-period on May 28, 2015. In addition, during 2015, we recorded a gain on the sale of discontinued operations, net of tax, of $1.0 billion.

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2015 was income of $1.5 billion compared to income of $390.5 million for 2014. The increase in net income was predominately due to a the gain recorded on the sale of CCAL. 

2014 and 2013. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the impact of the the AT&T Acquisition.

Net revenues for 2014 increased by $673.0 million, or 23%, from 2013. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in (1) site rental revenues of $495.2 million, or 21%, and (2) network services and other revenues of $177.8 million, or 36%, in each case as compared to 2013. The AT&T Acquisition increased our site rental revenues for 2014 compared to 2013. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. This increase in site rental revenues was also impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight-line accounting, in no particular order: tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of tenant leases, escalations, construction of new wireless infrastructure, other acquisitions, and non-renewals of tenant leases. Tenant additions were influenced by our customers' upgrading to long-term evolution ("LTE") networks and their ongoing efforts to improve network quality and capacity. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company."

Site rental gross margins for 2014 increased by $276.0 million, or 16%, from 2013. The increase in site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 21%, increase in site rental revenues, primarily as a result of the AT&T Acquisition (which had lower initial margins due to lower average tenancy that the average tenancy for our other wireless infrastructure) and the growth in our site rental activities.

Network services and other revenues for 2014 increased $177.8 million, or 36%, from 2013, and is a reflection of (1) the volume of activity from carrier network enhancements such as LTE upgrades, (2) changes in volume and mix, and (3) the expansion in size of our wireless infrastructure portfolio due to the T-Mobile Acquisition and AT&T Acquisition. Our network services offering is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long-term contracts. Network services and other gross margin for 2014 increased by $81.5 million, or 43%, from 2013, primarily as a result of the previously mentioned factors that increased network services and other revenues. 

General and administrative expenses for 2014 increased by $43.8 million, or 21%, from 2013 and represented 7% of net revenues in both 2014 and 2013. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges. See also note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in general and administrative expenses in nominal dollars was commensurate with the growth in our business, including (1) the expansion in size of our wireless infrastructure portfolio primarily due to acquisitions and (2) the growth in network services. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of tenant additions on our existing wireless infrastructure.

Adjusted EBITDA for 2014 increased by $335.5 million, or 20%, from 2013. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the AT&T Acquisition and the growth in our site rental and network services activities.

Depreciation, amortization, and accretion for 2014 increased by $244.4 million, or 33%, from 2013. The increase predominately resulted from the fixed asset and intangible asset additions recorded related to the AT&T Acquisition.

Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs decreased $16.3 million, or 3%, from 2013 to 2014, as a result of our refinancing activities, partially offset by additional borrowings under the 2012 Credit Facility to partially fund the AT&T Acquisition. During 2014, we issued $850.0 million of 4.875% senior notes, which provided us with funding to (1) repay $300.0 

 28

million of the January 2010 tower revenue notes and (2) redeem all of the previously outstanding 7.125% senior notes. In 2013 and 2014, we completed several debt transactions, resulting in (1) lowering our average cost of debt, (2) funding for our acquisitions, (3) the refinancing of certain of our debt, and (4) the extension of certain of our debt maturities. As a result of repaying and redeeming certain of our debt, we incurred net losses of $44.6 million and $37.1 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings, see note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Our acquisition and integration expenses for 2014 and 2013 were $34.1 million and $25.6 million, respectively, and related to our 2012 and 2013 acquisitions. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.

The benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2014 was a benefit of $11.2 million compared to a provision of $191.0 million for 2013. For 2014, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to our REIT status, including the dividends paid deduction. For 2013, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to the de-recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities related to our REIT election resulting in a non-cash income tax charge of $67.4 million. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 11 to our consolidated financial statements.

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2014 was income of $390.5 million compared to income of $90.1 million for 2013. The increase in net income was predominately due to a change in our benefit (provision) for income taxes due to our REIT status as further discussed herein. 

Dividends on preferred stock for 2014 and 2013 represented the dividends related to our Convertible Preferred Stock.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

General. Our core business generates revenues under long-term leases (see "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Overview") predominately from the largest U.S. wireless carriers. Our strategy is to create long-term stockholder value via a combination of (1) growing cash flows generated from our portfolio of wireless infrastructure, (2) returning a meaningful portion of our cash provided by operating activities to our stockholders in the form of dividends and (3) investing capital efficiently to grow cash flows and long-term dividends per share. We measure our efforts to create "long-term stockholder value" by the combined payment of dividends to stockholders and growth in our per share results. See "Item 1. Business—Strategy" for a further discussion of our strategy. 

We have and expect to continue to engage in discretionary investments that we believe will maximize long-term stockholder value. Our historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing, repaying, or redeeming our debt. Based on recent small cell activity, we expect to spend an increased percentage of our discretionary investments on the construction of new small cell networks. We seek to fund our discretionary investments with both net cash provided by operating activities and cash available from financing capacity, such as the use of our undrawn availability from the 2016 Revolver, debt financings and issuances of equity or equity related securities. 

We seek to maintain a capital structure that we believe drives long-term stockholder value and optimizes our weighted-average cost of capital. We target a leverage ratio of approximately four to five times Adjusted EBITDA and interest coverage of approximately three times Adjusted EBITDA, subject to various factors such as the availability and cost of capital and the potential long-term return on our discretionary investments. We may choose to increase or decrease our leverage or coverage from these targets for various periods of time. 

Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We expect to continue to pay minimal cash income taxes as a result of our REIT status and our NOLs. See "Item 1. Business—2015 Industry Highlights and Company Developments—REIT Election," "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview" and note 11 to our consolidated financial statements.

 29

Liquidity Position. The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Exclusive of restricted cash.

(b)Availability at any point in time is subject to reaffirmation of the representations and warranties in, and there being no default under, our credit agreement. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities" and "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt Covenants."

(c) Amounts represent the Company's capitalization and liquidity position as of December 31, 2015, after giving effect to the receipt of the installment payment from the sale of CCAL in January 2016 and our 2016 Refinancings.

Over the next 12 months: 

•Our liquidity sources may include (1) cash on hand, (2) net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments), (3) undrawn availability from our 2016 Revolver, and (4) issuances of equity pursuant to our ATM Program. Our liquidity uses over the next 12 months are expected to include (1) debt service obligations of approximately $89 million (principal payments), (2) common stock dividend payments expected to be $3.54 per share, or an aggregate of approximately $1.2 billion, subject to future approval by our board of directors (see "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Common Stock Dividend"), (3) Convertible Preferred Stock dividend payments of approximately $45 million, and (4) sustaining and discretionary capital expenditures (expected to be equal to or greater than current levels). During the next 12 months, we expect that our liquidity sources should be sufficient to cover our expected uses. As CCIC is a holding company, this cash flow from operations is generated by our operating subsidiaries.

•We have no scheduled contractual debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a tabular presentation of our debt maturities as of December 31, 2015 and a discussion of anticipated repayment dates.

Summary Cash Flows Information 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2015 from 2014 was due primarily to growth in our core business, including a net benefit from changes in working capital. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2014 from 2013 was due primarily to (1) the AT&T Acquisition, (2) growth in our core business and net benefit from changes in working capital, and (3) growth in our network services. Changes in working capital (including changes in accounts receivable, deferred site rental receivables, deferred rental revenues, prepaid ground leases, restricted cash, and accrued interest) can have a significant impact on net cash provided by operating activities, largely due to the timing of prepayments and receipts. We expect to grow our net cash provided by operating activities in the future (exclusive of movements in working capital) if we realize expected growth in our core business.

 30

Investing Activities

Capital Expenditures

Our capital expenditures are categorized as discretionary or sustaining, as described below.

•Discretionary capital expenditures are those capital expenditures made with respect to activities which we believe exhibit sufficient potential to enhance long-term stockholder value. They consist of improvements to existing wireless infrastructure, construction of new wireless infrastructure, and, to a lesser extent, purchases of land assets under towers as we seek to manage our interests in the land beneath our towers. Improvements to existing wireless infrastructure to accommodate tenant additions typically vary based on, among other factors: (1) the type of wireless infrastructure, (2) the scope, volume, and mix of work performed on the wireless infrastructure, (3) existing capacity prior to installation, or (4) changes in structural engineering regulations and standards. Our decisions regarding capital expenditures are influenced by the availability and cost of capital and expected returns on alternative uses of cash, such as payments of dividends and investments. 

•Sustaining capital expenditures consist of (1) corporate-related capital improvements and (2) maintenance on our wireless infrastructure assets that enable our customers' ongoing quiet enjoyment of the wireless infrastructure. 

A summary of our capital expenditures for the last three years is as follows (in thousands of dollars): 

Discretionary capital expenditures increased from 2014 to 2015 primarily as a result of (1) improvements to existing wireless infrastructure to accommodate new leasing and (2) the construction of new small cells. Our sustaining capital expenditures have historically been less than 2% of net revenues annually and were approximately 3% of net revenues in 2015 due to expansion of our office facilities. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Outlook Highlights" for a discussion of our expectations surrounding 2016 capital expenditures.

Sale of CCAL. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our May 2015 sale of CCAL, our previously 77.6% owned Australian subsidiary.

 31

Foreign Currency Swaps. During May 2015, in conjunction with our sale of CCAL, we entered into foreign currency swaps to manage and reduce our foreign currency risk associated with the sale of CCAL. See note 9 to our consolidated financial statements.

Acquisitions. Acquisitions consist of the acquisition of businesses such as towers and small cells, including fiber portfolios. See notes 4 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the 2015 Sunesys Acquisition, 2014 Land Acquisitions, and 2013 AT&T Acquisition.

Financing Activities

We seek to allocate cash generated by our operations in a manner that will enhance long-term stockholder value, which may include various financing activities, such as (in no particular order) paying dividends on our common stock (currently expected to total an aggregate of approximately $1.2 billion during the next 12 months, subject to future approval by our board of directors), paying dividends on our Convertible Preferred Stock (expected to be approximately $45 million in 2016), purchasing our common stock, or purchasing, repaying, or redeeming our debt. See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2014, our financing activities predominately related to (1) paying an aggregate of $624.3 million in dividends on our common stock, (2) amending our previously outstanding 2012 Credit Facility and (3) issuing $850.0 million of 4.875% senior notes, due in April 2022, which provided us with funding to repay $300.0 million of January 2010 tower revenue notes and redeem all of the previously outstanding 7.125% senior notes. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview" and note 8 to our consolidated financial statements.

In 2015, our financing activities predominately related to (1) paying an aggregate of $1.1 billion in dividends on our common stock, (2) amending our previously outstanding 2012 Credit Facility and (3) issuing $1.0 billion in May 2015 tower revenue notes which provided us with funding to repay $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of August 2010 tower revenue notes, redeem all of the previously outstanding WCP securitized notes, and repay portions of outstanding borrowings under our previously outstanding 2012 Credit Facility. See also "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Common Stock Dividend" for a discussion of the increase to our common stock dividend during the fourth quarter of 2015.

In January 2016, we completed a new senior unsecured $5.5 billion 2016 Credit Facility and utilized the proceeds, together with cash on hand, to repay all outstanding borrowings under the previously outstanding 2012 Credit Facility. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Facility."

In February 2016, we issued $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of investment grade senior unsecured notes ("2016 Senior Unsecured Notes"), which consist of (1) $600.0 million aggregated principal amount of 3.4% senior notes with a final maturity date of February 2021, and (2) $900.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.45% senior notes with a final maturity date of February 2026. 

We used the net proceeds from the 2016 Senior Unsecured Notes offering, together with cash on hand, to (1) repay in full all outstanding borrowings under the 364-Day Facility (and, in connection therewith, terminate all commitments thereunder), and (2) to repay $500.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the 2016 Revolver. 

Incurrences, Purchases and Repayments of Debt. See notes 8 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our recent issuances, purchases, and repayments of debt. Our debt issuances extended the maturities of our debt portfolio, provided funding for our acquisitions and our repayment of previously existing debt, and lowered our cost of debt. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview—Liquidity Position." After giving effect to our 2016 Refinancings, approximately 48% of our debt is secured. Certain of our wireless infrastructure is held in subsidiaries whose equity interests have been pledged, directly or indirectly, along with other collateral to secure such indebtedness. See notes 8 and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.

Common Stock. As of December 31, 2015, 2014, and 2013, we had 333.8 million, 333.9 million, and 334.1 million common shares outstanding, respectively. In October 2013, we issued 41.4 million shares of common stock, the net proceeds of which were used to partially fund the AT&T Acquisition. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we paid an aggregate of $1.1 billion in dividends on our common stock. See "Item 1. Business—Strategy" and note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 

ATM Program. In August 2015, we established an ATM Program through which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $500.0 million to or through sales agents. Sales, if any, under the ATM Program may be made by means of ordinary brokers' transactions on the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise at market prices prevailing at the time of sale, at prices related to prevailing market prices or, subject to our specific instructions, at negotiated prices. We intend to use the net proceeds from any sales under the ATM Program for general corporate purposes, which may include the funding of future acquisitions or investments and the repayment or repurchase of any outstanding 

 32

indebtedness. As of February 15, 2016, no shares of common stock were sold under the ATM Program. See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Convertible Preferred Stock. In October 2013, we issued 9.8 million shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, the net proceeds of which were used to partially fund the AT&T Acquisition. Unless converted earlier, each outstanding share of the Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically convert on November 1, 2016. Currently, each share of Convertible Preferred Stock will convert into shares of common stock at a conversion rate between 1.1538 shares (based on the current maximum conversion price of $86.67) and 1.4421 shares (based on the current minimum conversion price of $69.34), depending on the applicable market value of the common stock and subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. At any time prior to November 1, 2016, holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock may elect to convert all or a portion of their shares into common stock at the minimum conversion rate of 1.1538, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments.

Credit Facility. 

During 2015, we repaid a total of $1.4 billion and borrowed $1.8 billion under the previously outstanding 2012 Revolver.

In January 2016, we completed a new unsecured $5.5 billion 2016 Credit Facility, consisting of (1) a $2.5 billion unsecured 2016 Revolver maturing on January 21, 2021, (2) a $1.0 billion Senior Unsecured 364-Day Revolving Credit Facility ("364-Day Facility") maturing on January 19, 2017, and (3) a $2.0 billion Senior Unsecured Term Loan A Facility ("2016 Term Loan A") maturing on January 21, 2021. As of February 15, 2016, the 364-Day Facility was terminated. See note 19 to our consolidated financial statements.

The 2016 Credit Facility bears interest at a per annum rate equal to LIBOR plus 1.125% to 2.000%, based on our senior unsecured debt rating. 

The proceeds of the loans under the 2016 Credit Facility, together with cash on hand, were used to repay all outstanding borrowings under the previously outstanding 2012 Credit Facility. 

The 2016 Revolver may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include the financing of capital expenditures, acquisitions, and purchases of our common stock. See notes 4, 8, and 19 to our consolidated financial statements.

As of February 15, 2016, there was approximately $2.1 billion in availability under the 2016 Revolver. 

Restricted Cash. Pursuant to the indentures governing certain of our operating companies' debt securities, all rental cash receipts of the issuers of these debt instruments and their subsidiaries are restricted and held by an indenture trustee. The restricted cash in excess of required reserve balances is subsequently released to us in accordance with the terms of the indentures. During 2012, $316.6 million of restricted cash was held by the trustee in connection with the redemption of the 7.75% secured notes. That amount was subsequently released in January 2013 when the 7.75% secured notes were redeemed in their entirety. See also notes 2 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements.

Contractual Cash Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2015, after giving effect to our 2016 Refinancings. These contractual cash obligations relate primarily to our outstanding borrowings or lease obligations for land interests under our towers. The debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates on the tower revenue notes (see footnote (b)). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)The following items are in addition to the obligations disclosed in the above table:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We are contractually obligated to pay or reimburse others for property taxes related to our wireless infrastructure.

 33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We have legal obligations for open purchase order commitments obtained in the ordinary course of business that have not yet been fulfilled.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(d)Interest payments on the floating rate debt are based on estimated rates currently in effect.

(e)Amounts relate primarily to lease obligations for the land interests on which our wireless infrastructure resides and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights. See table below summarizing remaining terms to expiration.

The following chart summarizes our rights to the land interests under our towers, including renewal terms at our option, as of December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the leases for land interests under our towers had an average remaining life in excess of 30 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

(a)Without consideration of the term of the tenant lease.

(b)Inclusive of fee interests and perpetual easements.

 34

Debt Covenants

The credit agreement governing the 2016 Credit Facility contains financial maintenance covenants. We are currently in compliance with these financial maintenance covenants and, based upon our current expectations, we believe we will continue to comply with these financial maintenance covenants. In addition, certain of our debt agreements also contain restrictive covenants that place restrictions on us and may limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional debt and liens, purchase our securities, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, undertake transactions with affiliates, make other investments, pay dividends or distribute excess cash flow. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt covenants. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." The following are ratios applicable to the financial maintenance covenants under the credit agreement governing our 2016 Credit Facility as of December 31, 2015 after giving effect to the receipt of the installment payment from the sale of CCAL in January 2016 and our 2016 Refinancings. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Failure to comply with the financial maintenance covenants would, absent a waiver, result in an event of default under the credit agreement governing our 2016 Credit Facility.

(b)As defined in the credit agreement governing our 2016 Credit Facility.

(c)Applicable solely to the extent that the senior unsecured debt rating by any two of S&P, Moody's and Fitch is lower than BBB-, Baa3 or BBB-, respectively. If applicable, the consolidated interest coverage ratio must be greater than or equal to 2.50.

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.

Accounting and Reporting Matters

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The following is a discussion of the accounting policies and estimates that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations or (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The critical accounting policies and estimates for 2015 are not intended to be a comprehensive list of our accounting policies and estimates. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP. In other cases, management is required to exercise judgment in the application of accounting principles with respect to particular transactions.

Revenue Recognition. 82% of our total revenue for 2015 consists of site rental revenues, which are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the relevant lease (generally ranging from five to 15 years), regardless of whether the payments from the tenant are received in equal monthly amounts. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases), upfront payments or rent free periods, the revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the lease. When calculating our straight-line rental revenues, we consider all fixed elements of tenant contractual escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions contain a variable element (such as an escalator tied to an inflation-based index) in addition to a minimum. To the extent we acquire below-market tenant leases for contractual interests with tenants on the acquired wireless infrastructure (for example with respect to small cells) we record deferred credits and amortize such deferred credits to site rental revenues over their estimated lease term. Since we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis, a portion of the site rental revenue in a given period represents cash collected or contractually collectible in other periods. Our assets related to straight-line site rental revenues are included in "other current assets" and "deferred site rental receivables, net." Amounts billed or received prior to being earned are deferred and reflected in "deferred revenues" and "other long-term liabilities." See notes 2 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

As part of our effort to provide comprehensive wireless infrastructure solutions, we offer certain network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, which represent approximately 18% of our total revenues for 2015. Network services and other revenue consists of (1) site development services and (2) installation services. Network services revenues are recognized after completion of the applicable service. We account for network services separately from the customer's site rental. See "Item 1. Business—The Company" for a further discussion of our business. 

 35

Accounting for Acquisitions — General. As described in "Item 1. Business," much of our wireless infrastructure has been acquired in various transactions from the four largest wireless carriers (or their predecessors) through transactions consummated since 1999. We evaluate each of our acquisitions to determine if it should be accounted for as a business combination or as an acquisition of assets. For our business combinations, we allocate the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Any purchase price in excess of the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Accounting for Acquisitions—Valuation" below. 

The determination of the final purchase price allocation could extend over several quarters resulting in the use of preliminary estimates that are subject to adjustment until finalized. Such changes could have a significant impact on our financial statements. 

Accounting for Acquisitions — Leases. With respect to business combinations that include towers that we lease and operate, such as the AT&T, T-Mobile, and Sprint leased and subleased towers, we evaluate such agreements to determine treatment as capital or operating leases. The evaluation of such agreements for capital or operating lease treatment includes consideration of each of the lease classification criteria under ASC 840-10-25, namely (1) the transfer of ownership provisions, (2) the existence of bargain purchase options, (3) the length of the remaining lease term, and (4) the present value of the minimum lease payments. With respect to the AT&T Acquisition, T-Mobile Acquisition, and the Sprint towers acquired in the Global Signal Acquisition, we determined that the tower leases were capital leases and the underlying land leases were operating leases based upon the lease term criterion, after considering the fragmentation criteria applicable under ASC 840-10-25 to leases involving both land and buildings (i.e., towers). We determined that the fragmentation criteria was met, and the tower leases could be accounted for as capital leases apart from the land leases, which are accounted for as operating leases, since (1) the fair value of the land in the aforementioned business combinations was greater than 25% of the total fair value of the leased property at inception and (2) the tower lease expirations occur beyond 75% of the estimated economic life of the tower assets.

Accounting for Acquisitions — Valuation. As of December 31, 2015, our largest asset was property and equipment, which primarily consists of wireless infrastructure, followed by goodwill and intangible assets. Our identifiable intangible assets predominately relate to the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the nature and composition of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets.

The fair value of the vast majority of our assets and liabilities is determined by using either:

(1)estimates of replacement costs (for tangible fixed assets such as towers), or

(2)discounted cash flow valuation methods (for estimating identifiable intangibles such as site rental contracts and customer relationships and above-market and below-market leases).

The purchase price allocation requires subjective estimates that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements, including the amount of depreciation, amortization, and accretion expense. The most important estimates for measurement of tangible fixed assets are (1) the cost to replace the asset with a new asset and (2) the economic useful life after giving effect to age, quality, and condition. The most important estimates for measurement of intangible assets are (1) discount rates and (2) timing and amount of cash flows including estimates regarding customer renewals and cancellations. The most important estimates for measurement of above and below-market leases is the determination of (1) favorability or unfavorability to the current market terms and (2) applicable lease term, including whether renewals or extensions should be measured. With respect to business combinations that include towers that we lease and operate, such as the T-Mobile, Sprint, and AT&T leased and subleased towers, we evaluate such agreements to determine treatment as capital or operating leases and identification of any bargain purchase options. 

We record the fair value of obligations to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements, pursuant to our ground leases or easements, to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. In determining the fair value of these asset retirement obligations we must make several subjective and highly judgmental estimates such as those related to: (1) timing of cash flows, (2) future costs, (3) discount rates, and (4) the probability of enforcement to remove the towers or small cells or remediate the land. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Useful Lives. We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets for purposes of determining depreciation, amortization, and accretion expense that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of tangible assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our wireless infrastructure which is depreciated with an estimated useful life equal to the shorter of (1) 20 years or (2) the term of the lease (including optional renewals) for the land interests under the wireless infrastructure.

 36

The useful life of our intangible assets is estimated based on the period over which the intangible asset is expected to benefit us and gives consideration to the expected useful life of other assets to which the useful life may relate. We review the expected useful lives of our intangible assets on an ongoing basis and adjust if necessary. Amortization expense for intangible assets is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of each of the intangible assets. The useful life of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets is limited by the maximum depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure (20 years), as a result of the interdependency of the wireless infrastructure and site rental contracts and customer relationships. In contrast, the site rental contracts and customer relationships are estimated to provide economic benefits for several decades because of the low rate of tenant cancellations and high rate of renewals experienced to date. Thus, while site rental contracts and customer relationships are valued based upon the fair value of the site rental contracts and customer relationships which includes assumptions regarding both (1) tenants' exercise of optional renewals contained in the acquired leases and (2) renewals of the acquired leases past the contractual term including exercisable options, the site rental contracts are amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years as a result of the useful life being limited by the depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Intangibles. We review the carrying values of property and equipment, intangible assets, or other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We utilize the following dual grouping policy for purposes of determining the unit of account for testing impairment of the site rental contracts and customer relationships:

(1)we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups, and

(2)we separately pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant tenant or by tenant grouping for individually insignificant tenants, as appropriate.

We first pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing, because we view wireless infrastructure as portfolios and wireless infrastructure in a given portfolio and its related tenant leases are not largely independent of the other wireless infrastructure in the portfolio. We re-evaluate the appropriateness of the pooled groups at least annually. This use of grouping is based in part on (1) our limitations regarding disposal of wireless infrastructure, (2) the interdependencies of wireless infrastructure portfolios, and (3) the manner in which wireless infrastructure is traded in the marketplace. The vast majority of our site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment are pooled into the U.S. owned wireless infrastructure group. Secondly, and separately, we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant tenant or by tenant grouping for individually insignificant tenants, as appropriate, for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing because we associate the value ascribed to site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets to the underlying contracts and related customer relationships acquired.

Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an asset's financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an asset's financial performance compared to forecasted results, or (3) changes affecting the utility and estimated future demands for the asset. When considering the utility of our assets, we consider events that would meaningfully impact (1) our wireless infrastructure or (2) our customer relationships. For example, consideration would be given to events that impact (1) the structural integrity and longevity of our wireless infrastructure or (2) our ability to derive benefit from our existing customer relationships, including events such as bankruptcy or insolvency or loss of a significant customer. During 2015, there were no events or circumstances that caused us to review the carrying value of our intangible assets or property and equipment due in part to our assets performing consistently with or better than our expectations.

If the sum of the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from an asset, or portfolio group, significant tenant or tenant group (for individually insignificant tenants), as applicable, is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss may be recognized. If the carrying value were to exceed the undiscounted cash flows, measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the fair value of the asset, which is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. The most important estimates for such calculations of undiscounted cash flows are (1) the expected additions of new tenants and equipment on our wireless infrastructure and (2) estimates regarding tenant cancellations and renewals of leases. We could record impairments in the future if changes in long-term market conditions, expected future operating results or the utility of the assets results in changes for our impairment test calculations which negatively impact the fair value of our property and equipment and intangible assets, or if we changed our unit of account in the future.

 37

When grouping assets into pools for purposes of impairment evaluation, we also consider individual towers, nodes, and third party land interests within a grouping for which we currently have no tenants. Approximately 2% of our total towers currently have no tenants. We continue to pay operating expenses on these towers in anticipation of obtaining tenants on these towers in the future, primarily because of the individual tower site demographics. We estimate, based on current visibility, potential tenants on approximately half of these towers. To the extent we do not believe there are long-term prospects of obtaining tenants on an individual tower, node, or third party land interest and all other possible avenues for recovering the carrying value has been exhausted, including sale of the asset, we appropriately reduce the carrying value of such assets to fair value.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Goodwill. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. The annual test begins with goodwill and all intangible assets being allocated to applicable reporting units. We then perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. During 2015, we sold our Australian operations and our reporting units changed from U.S. operations and Australian operations to towers and small cells. We performed a relative fair value allocation of goodwill when the change in reporting units occurred. See notes 3 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements regarding the sale of CCAL and change in reportable segments.We performed our most recent annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2015, which resulted in no impairments. This assessment included consideration of our market capitalization which exceeded over three times the aggregate carrying amount of the reporting units as of December 31, 2015. 

Deferred Income Taxes. Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our REIT taxable income is generally not subject to federal and state income taxes as a result of the deduction for dividends paid and any usage of our remaining NOLs. Accordingly, the only provision or benefit for federal income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2015 relates to TRSs. Furthermore, as a result of the deduction for dividends paid, some or all of our NOLs related to our REIT may expire without utilization. See "Item 1. Business—2015 Industry Highlights and Company Developments—REIT Election" for a discussion of the impact of our REIT election. 

Our TRSs will continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state income taxes and foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located. See "Item 1. Business—2015 Industry Highlights and Company Developments—REIT Election" for a discussion of  our inclusion of small cells in the REIT effective January 1, 2016. Our ability to utilize our NOLs is dependent, in part, upon our having sufficient future earnings to utilize our NOLs before they expire. If market conditions change materially and we determine that we will be unable to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to utilize our NOLs, we would be required to record an additional valuation allowance, which would reduce our earnings. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. The change in our valuation allowance has no effect on our cash flows. For a further discussion of our benefit (provision) for income taxes and our REIT conversion, see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations" and note 11 to our consolidated financial statements.

Accounting Pronouncements

Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and accretion, as adjusted, or Adjusted EBITDA. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is set forth in "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations." Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income or loss, net income or loss, net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities, or other income statement or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write-down charges, acquisition and integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, amortization of prepaid lease purchase price adjustments, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, gains (losses) on retirement of long-term obligations, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, gains (losses) on foreign currency swaps, impairment of available-for-sale securities, interest income, other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations and stock-based compensation expense. The reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to our net income (loss) is set forth below. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations 

 38

as determined in accordance with GAAP, and our definition of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)The above reconciliation excludes the items included in the Company's Adjusted EBITDA definition which are not applicable to the periods shown.

We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because:

•it is the primary measure used by our management to evaluate the economic productivity of our operations, including the efficiency of our employees and the profitability associated with their performance, the realization of lease revenue under our long-term leases, our ability to obtain and maintain our tenants, and our ability to operate our wireless infrastructure effectively;

•it is the primary measure of profit and loss used by management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segment;

•it is similar to the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations;

•although specific definitions may vary, it is widely used in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure to measure operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, amortization and accretion, which can vary depending upon accounting methods and the book value of assets; and

•we believe it helps investors meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations (1) from period to period and (2) to our competitors by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results.

Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:

•with respect to compliance with our debt covenants, which require us to maintain certain financial ratios including, or similar to, Adjusted EBITDA;

•as the primary measure of profit and loss for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;

•as a performance goal in employee annual incentive compensation;

•as a measurement of operating performance because it assists us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as it removes the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization, and accretion) from our operating results;

•in presentations to our board of directors to enable it to have the same measurement of operating performance used by management;

•for planning purposes, including preparation of our annual operating budget;

•as a valuation measure in strategic analyses in connection with the purchase and sale of assets; and

•in determining self-imposed limits on our debt levels, including the evaluation of our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio.

 39

There are material limitations to using a measure such as Adjusted EBITDA, including the difficulty associated with comparing results among more than one company, including our competitors, and the inability to analyze certain significant items, including depreciation and interest expense, that directly affect our net income or loss. Management compensates for these limitations by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with their analysis of net income (loss).

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk