Item 1. Business

General

Rockwell Automation, Inc. (Rockwell Automation or the Company) is a leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information solutions that help manufacturers achieve competitive advantages for their businesses. Our products, solutions and services are designed to meet our customers’ needs to reduce total cost of ownership, maximize asset utilization, improve time to market and reduce enterprise business risk.

The Company continues the business founded as the Allen-Bradley Company in 1903. The privately-owned Allen-Bradley Company was a leading North American manufacturer of industrial automation equipment when the former Rockwell International Corporation (RIC) purchased it in 1985. 

The Company was incorporated in Delaware in connection with a tax-free reorganization completed on December 6, 1996, pursuant to which we divested our former aerospace and defense businesses (the A&D Business) to The Boeing Company (Boeing). In the reorganization, RIC contributed all of its businesses, other than the A&D Business, to the Company and distributed all capital stock of the Company to RIC’s shareowners. Boeing then acquired RIC. RIC was incorporated in 1928.

2
As used herein, the terms “we”, “us”, “our”, “Rockwell Automation”, or the “Company” include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to our continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.

Whenever an Item of this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to information in our Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareowners to be held on February 2, 2016 (the Proxy Statement), or to information under specific captions in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), or in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (the Financial Statements), the information is incorporated in that Item by reference. All date references to years and quarters refer to our fiscal year and quarters unless otherwise stated.

Operating Segments

We have two operating segments: Architecture & Software and Control Products & Solutions. In 2015, our total sales were $6.3 billion. Our Architecture & Software operating segment recorded sales of $2.7 billion (44 percent of our total sales) in 2015. Our Control Products & Solutions operating segment recorded sales of $3.6 billion (56 percent of our total sales) in 2015.

Our Architecture & Software operating segment is headquartered in Mayfield Heights, Ohio, and our Control Products & Solutions operating segment is headquartered in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Both operating segments conduct business globally. Major markets served by both segments consist of consumer industries, including food and beverage, home and personal care and life sciences; transportation, including automotive and tire; and heavy industries, including oil and gas, mining and metals.

Additional information with respect to our operating segments, including a description of our operating segments and their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the three years ended September 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013 is contained in Note 15 in the Financial Statements and under the caption Results of Operations in MD&A.

Geographic Information

In 2015, sales to customers in the United States accounted for 55 percent of our total sales. Outside the United States, we sell in every region. The largest sales outside the United States on a country-of-destination basis are in Canada, China, the United Kingdom, Mexico, Italy, Germany, and Brazil. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of risks associated with our operations outside the United States. Sales and property information by major geographic area for each of the past three years is contained in Note 15 in the Financial Statements.

Competition

Our competitors range from large diversified corporations that also have business interests outside of industrial automation to smaller companies that specialize in niche industrial automation products, solutions and services. Factors that influence our competitive position include the breadth of our product portfolio and scope of solutions, technology differentiation, knowledge of customer applications, installed base, distribution network, quality of products, solutions and services, global presence and price. Our major competitors of both segments include Siemens AG, ABB Ltd, Schneider Electric SA, Emerson Electric Co., Mitsubishi Electric Corp. and Honeywell International Inc.

Distribution

In the United States, Canada and certain other countries, we sell primarily through independent distributors in conjunction with our direct sales force. In the remaining countries, we sell through a combination of our direct sales force and to a lesser extent, through independent distributors. Approximately 70 percent of our global sales are through independent distributors. Sales to our largest distributor in 2015, 2014 and 2013 were approximately 10 percent of our total sales. The independent distributors typically do not carry products that compete with our products. 

Research and Development

Our research and development spending for the years ended September 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $307.3 million, $290.1 million and $260.7 million, respectively. Customer-sponsored research and development was not significant in 2015, 2014 or 2013.

Employees

At September 30, 2015, we had approximately 22,500 employees. Approximately 8,500 were employed in the United States.

3
Raw Materials

We purchase a wide range of equipment, components, finished products and materials used in our business. The raw materials essential to the manufacture of our products generally are available at competitive prices. We have a broad base of suppliers and subcontractors. We depend upon the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of risks associated with our reliance on third party suppliers.

Backlog

Our total order backlog consists of (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Backlog is not necessarily indicative of results of operations for future periods due to the short-cycle nature of most of our sales activities. Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond 2016 were approximately $148 million as of September 30, 2015.

Environmental Protection Requirements

Information about the effect of compliance with environmental protection requirements and resolution of environmental claims is contained in Note 14 in the Financial Statements and in Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Patents, Licenses and Trademarks

We own or license numerous patents and patent applications related to our products and operations. While in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important in the operation of our business, we do not believe that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect our business or financial condition. Various claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been made to us. We believe that none of these claims or requests will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for a discussion of risks associated with our intellectual property.

The Company’s name and its registered trademark “Rockwell Automation®” and other trademarks such as “Allen-Bradley®”, “A-B®” and “PlantPAx Process Automation System™” are important to both of our business segments. In addition, we own other important trademarks that we use, such as “ICS Triplex™” for our control products and systems for industrial automation, and “Rockwell Software®” and “FactoryTalk®” for our software offerings.

Seasonality

Our business segments are not subject to significant seasonality. However, the calendarization of our results can vary and may be affected by the seasonal spending patterns of our customers due to their annual budgeting processes and their working schedules.

Available Information

We maintain a website at http://www.rockwellautomation.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), as well as our annual report to shareowners and Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, are available free of charge on this site through the "Investor Relations" link as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports with the SEC. All reports we file with the SEC are also available free of charge via EDGAR through the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Our Guidelines on Corporate Governance and charters for our Board committees are also available on our website. The information contained on and linked from our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

4
Item 1A. Risk Factors