PART I  

 Item 1. Business  

PepsiCo, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “PepsiCo” and the “Company” mean PepsiCo, Inc. and its divisions and subsidiaries.  

Our Divisions  

We are a leading global snack and beverage company. We manufacture, market and sell a variety of salty, convenient, sweet and grain-based snacks, carbonated and non-carbonated beverages and foods.  

Our commitment to sustainable growth, defined as Performance with Purpose, is focused on generating healthy financial returns while giving back to the communities we serve. This includes meeting consumer needs for a spectrum of convenient foods and beverages, reducing our impact on the environment through water, energy and packaging initiatives, and supporting our employees through a diverse and inclusive culture that recruits and retains world-class talent. In September 2007, we were again included on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and were also added to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. These lists are compiled annually.  

We are organized into four divisions:  

    •  Frito-Lay North America,  

    •  PepsiCo Beverages North America,  

    •  PepsiCo International, and  

    •  Quaker Foods North America.  

Our North American divisions operate in the United States and Canada. Our international division sells products in approximately 200 countries, with our largest operations in Mexico and the United Kingdom. Financial information concerning our divisions and geographic areas is presented in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements and additional information concerning our division operations, customers and distribution network is presented under the heading “ Our Business” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis.”  

Frito-Lay North America  

Frito-Lay North America (FLNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks. These snacks include Lay’s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Tostitos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, branded dips, Fritos corn chips, Ruffles potato chips, Quaker Chewy granola bars, SunChips multigrain snacks, Rold Gold pretzels, Santitas tortilla chips, Grandma’s cookies, Frito-Lay nuts, Munchies snack mix, Gamesa cookies, Funyuns onion flavored rings, Quaker Quakes corn and rice snacks, Miss Vickie’s potato chips, Stacy’s pita chips, Smartfood popcorn, Chester’s   

1  

Table of Contents 

 fries, branded crackers and Flat Earth crisps. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. FLNA’s net revenue was $11.6 billion in 2007, $10.8 billion in 2006 and $10.3 billion in 2005 and approximated 29% of our total net revenue in 2007, 31% of our total net revenue in 2006 and 32% of our total net revenue in 2005.  

PepsiCo Beverages North America  

PepsiCo Beverages North America (PBNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist, Propel, Tropicana juice drinks, Dole, SoBe Life Water, Naked juice and Izze. PBNA also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea, coffee and water products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PBNA licenses the Aquafina water brand to its bottlers and markets this brand. PBNA sells concentrate and finished goods for some of these brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded products are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. The bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PBNA’s net revenue was $10.2 billion in 2007, $9.6 billion in 2006 and $9.1 billion in 2005 and approximated 26% of our total net revenue in 2007, 27% of our total net revenue in 2006 and 28% of our total net revenue in 2005.  

PepsiCo International  

PepsiCo International (PI) manufactures through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates, a number of leading salty and sweet snack brands including Gamesa, Lay’s, Doritos, Walkers, Cheetos, Ruffles and Sabritas. Further, PI manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand cereals and snacks. PI also manufactures, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods under the brands Pepsi, 7UP, Mirinda, Mountain Dew, Gatorade and Tropicana. These brands are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, PI operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. PI also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through a joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name). In addition, PI licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. PI’s net revenue was $15.8 billion in 2007, $13.0 billion in 2006 and $11.4 billion in 2005 and approximated 40% of our total net revenue in 2007, 37% of our total net revenue in 2006 and 35% of our total net revenue in 2005.  

Quaker Foods North America  

Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA’s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Life cereal, Cap’n Crunch cereal, Quaker grits, Rice-A-Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. QFNA’s net revenue was $1.9 billion in 2007, $1.8 billion in 2006 and $1.7 billion in 2005 and approximated 5% of our total net revenue in each of 2007, 2006 and 2005.  

2  

Table of Contents 

New Organizational Structure  

In the fourth quarter of 2007, we announced a strategic realignment of our organizational structure into three new business units, as follows:  

    (1)  PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF), which includes FLNA, QFNA and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses (LAF), including our Sabritas and Gamesa businesses in Mexico;  

    (2)  PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes PBNA and all of our Latin American beverage businesses; and  

    (3)  PepsiCo International (PI), which includes all PepsiCo businesses in the United Kingdom, Europe, Asia, Middle East and Africa.  

In 2008, our three business units will be comprised of six reportable segments, as follows:  

    •  FLNA,  

    •  QFNA,  

    •  LAF,  

    •  PAB,  

    •  United Kingdom & Europe, and  

    •  Middle East, Africa & Asia.  

In the first quarter of 2008, our historical segment reporting will be restated to reflect the new structure. The segment amounts and discussions reflected in this Form 10-K reflect the management reporting that existed through fiscal year-end 2007.  

Our Distribution Network  

Our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (DSD), broker-warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. These distribution systems are described under the heading “Our Distribution Network” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis.”  

Ingredients and Other Supplies  

The principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are aspartame, cocoa, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, juice and juice concentrates, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include polyethylene terephthalate (PET) resin used for plastic bottles, film packaging used for snack foods,   

3  

Table of Contents 

 aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. These ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased mainly in the open market. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. When we have decided to pass along price increases in the past, we have done so successfully. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our commodity costs.  

Our Brands  

We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Alegro, Amp, Aquafina, Aunt Jemima, Cap’n Crunch, Cheetos, Cracker Jack, Diet Pepsi, Doritos, Duyvis, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Gamesa, Gatorade, Grandma’s, Izze, Lay’s, Life, Matutano, Mirinda, Mountain Dew, Mug, Naked, Near East, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi One, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Quakes, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Ruffles, Sabritas, Sakata, 7UP and Diet 7UP (outside the United States), Sierra Mist, Simba, Smith’s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Life Water, Sonric’s, Stacy’s, SunChips, Tostitos, Tropicana, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister and Walkers. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products, including Lipton, Starbucks, Dole and Ocean Spray. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness.  

We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others.  

Seasonality  

Our beverage and food divisions are subject to seasonal variations. Our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our business.  

Our Customers  

Our customers include authorized bottlers and independent distributors, including foodservice distributors and retailers. We normally grant our bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide the Company with the right to charge our bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Retail consolidation continues to increase the importance of major customers. In 2007, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam’s Club (Sam’s), represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 31% of our 2007 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam’s) representing approximately 18%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. In addition, sales to The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) represented approximately 9% of our total net revenue. See “ Our Customers” and “Our Related Party Bottlers” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis” and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers.  

Our Competition  

Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. In U.S. measured channels, we have a similar share of CSD (carbonated soft drinks) consumption and a larger share of liquid refreshment beverages consumption, as compared to our chief beverage competitor, The Coca-Cola Company. However, The Coca-Cola Company has a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside the United States. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack industry worldwide. Our snack brands face local and regional competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, and compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products and the introduction of new products. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively.  

5  

Table of Contents 

  (1)  The categories and category share information in the charts above are defined by the sources of the information: Information Resources, Inc. and A.C. Nielsen Corporation. The above charts exclude data from certain customers such as Wal-Mart that do not report data to these services.  

  (2)  Due to unavailability of data from A.C. Nielsen Corporation, the following categories are not included for the Convenience and Gas (C&G) channel: dips, popcorn and rice cakes.  

Research and Development  

We engage in a variety of research and development activities. These activities principally involve the development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $364 million in 2007, $282 million in 2006 and $280 million in 2005 and are reported as selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance  

The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government  

6  

Table of Contents 

 entities and agencies in markets where we operate. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses.  

In the United States, we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, laws regulating the sales of products in schools, and various other federal statutes and regulations. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including California Proposition 65 which requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. Many food and beverage producers who sell products in California, including PepsiCo, may be required to provide warning labels on their products. See also “Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”  

In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as local in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business.  

The cost of compliance with U.S. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our operations.  

We are subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business, including laws relating to water consumption and treatment. We are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. Environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.  

Employees  

As of December 29, 2007, we employed approximately 185,000 people worldwide, including approximately 66,000 people employed within the United States. Our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good.  

Available Information  

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports, are also available free of charge on our internet website at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any of our other filings with the SEC.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factor s  

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements  

We discuss expectations regarding our future performance, such as our business outlook, in our annual and quarterly reports, press releases, and other written and oral statements. These “forward-looking statements” are based on currently available information, operating plans and projections about future events and trends. They inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in any such forward-looking statements. Investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The discussion of risks below and elsewhere in this report is by no means all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our trends and future results.  

Demand for our products may be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences and tastes or if we are unable to innovate or market our products effectively.  

We are a consumer products company operating in highly competitive markets and rely on continued demand for our products. To generate revenues and profits, we must sell products that appeal to our customers and to consumers. Any significant changes in consumer preferences and any inability on our part to anticipate and react to such changes could result in reduced demand for our products and erosion of our competitive and financial position. Our success depends on our ability to respond to consumer trends, such as consumer health concerns about obesity, product attributes and ingredients. In addition, changes in product category consumption or consumer demographics could result in reduced demand for our products. Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, weather, negative publicity resulting from regulatory action or litigation against companies in the industry, or a downturn in economic conditions. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ willingness to purchase our products. See also “Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation” below.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Our continued success is also dependent on our product innovation, including maintaining a robust pipeline of new products, and the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns and marketing programs. There can be no assurance as to our continued ability either to develop and launch successful new products or variants of existing products, or to effectively execute advertising campaigns and marketing programs. In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products and advertising campaigns are inherently uncertain, especially as to their appeal to consumers. Our failure to successfully launch new products could decrease demand for our existing products by negatively affecting consumer perception of existing brands, as well as result in inventory write-offs and other costs.  

Any damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to selling our branded products. If we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, safety and integrity, our reputation could be jeopardized. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns or the incidence of product contamination or tampering, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. If any of our products becomes unfit for consumption, misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability. A widespread product recall or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity. Failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities or adverse publicity regarding our responses to health concerns, our environmental impacts, including agricultural materials, packaging, energy and water use and waste management, or other sustainability issues, could jeopardize our reputation. Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls or to provide accurate and timely financial statement information could also hurt our reputation. Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these reasons could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation.  

If we are not able to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, successfully implement our ongoing business transformation initiative or outsource certain functions effectively our business could suffer.  

We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach.  

We have embarked on a multi-year business transformation initiative that includes the delivery of an SAP enterprise resource planning application, as well as the migration to   

9  

Table of Contents 

 common business processes across our operations. There can be no certainty that these programs will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to deliver our goals may impact our ability to (1) process transactions accurately and efficiently and (2) remain in step with the changing needs of the trade, which could result in the loss of customers. In addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue.  

In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale.  

Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets.  

Our operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, disruption of supply or shortages of raw materials and other supplies.  

We and our business partners use various raw materials and other supplies in our business, including aspartame, cocoa, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, juice and juice concentrates, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include PET resin used for plastic bottles, film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. Some of these raw materials and supplies are available from a limited number of suppliers. We are exposed to the market risks arising from adverse changes in commodity prices, affecting the cost of our raw materials and energy. The raw materials and energy which we use for the production of our products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility and fluctuations in availability caused by changes in global supply and demand, weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty or governmental controls. We purchase these materials and energy mainly in the open market. If commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in raw materials and energy costs, we may not be able to increase our prices to offset these increased costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income.  

Our profitability may also be adversely impacted due to water scarcity and regulation. Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world. As demand for water continues to increase, we and our business partners may face disruption of supply or increased costs to obtain the water needed to produce our products.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Our business could suffer if we are unable to compete effectively.  

Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and effective distribution. Increased competition and actions by our competitors could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in our market share, either of which could adversely affect our results. See “Our Competition” for more information about our competitors.  

Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, including bottlers, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers, to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our or their manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics such as avian flu, strikes or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain.  

Trade consolidation, the loss of any key customer, or failure to maintain good relationships with our bottling partners could adversely affect our financial performance.  

We must maintain mutually beneficial relationships with our key customers, including our retailers and bottling partners, to effectively compete. There is a greater concentration of our customer base around the world generally due to the continued consolidation of retail trade. As retail ownership becomes more concentrated, retailers demand lower pricing and increased promotional programs. Further, as larger retailers increase utilization of their own distribution networks and private label brands, the competitive advantages we derive from our go-to-market systems and brand equity may be eroded. Failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retailers and adversely affect our financial performance.  

Retail consolidation continues to increase the importance of major customers. In 2007, sales to Wal-Mart (including Sam’s) represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 31% of our 2007 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam’s) representing approximately 18%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. Loss of any of our key customers, including Wal-Mart, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Furthermore, if we are unable to provide an appropriate mix of incentives to our bottlers through a combination of advertising and marketing support, they may take actions that, while maximizing their own short-term profit, may be detrimental to us or our brands. Such actions could have an adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, any deterioration of our relationships with our bottlers could adversely affect our business or financial performance. See “ Our Customers” and “ Our Related Party Bottlers” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis” and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers.  

Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.  

The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Such regulatory environment changes include changes in food and drug laws, laws related to advertising and deceptive marketing practices, accounting standards, taxation requirements, competition laws and environmental laws, including laws relating to the regulation of water rights and treatment. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities.  

In particular, governmental bodies in jurisdictions where we operate may impose new labeling, product or production requirements, or other restrictions. For example, we are one of several companies that have been sued by the State of California under Proposition 65 to force warnings that certain potato-based products contain acrylamide. Acrylamide is a chemical compound naturally formed in a wide variety of foods when they are cooked (whether commercially or at home), including french fries, potato chips, cereal, bread and coffee. It is believed that acrylamide may cause cancer in laboratory animals when consumed in significant amounts. Studies are underway by various regulatory authorities and others to assess the effect on humans due to acrylamide in the diet. If we were required to label any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in California under Proposition 65, sales of those products could suffer not only in California but elsewhere. In addition, if consumer concerns about acrylamide increase as a result of these studies, other new scientific evidence, or for any other reason, whether or not valid, demand for our products could decline and we could be subject to additional lawsuits or new regulations that could affect sales of our products, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may also have enforcement powers that can subject us to actions such as   

12  

Table of Contents 

 product recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our sales or damage our reputation. See also “Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance.”  

If we are unable to hire or retain key employees, it could have a negative impact on our business.  

Our continued growth requires us to develop our leadership bench and to implement programs, such as our long-term incentive program, designed to retain talent. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire or retain key employees. We compete to hire new employees, and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any unplanned turnover could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitive advantage.  

Our business may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic or environmental conditions or political or other developments and risks in the countries in which we operate.  

Unfavorable global economic or environmental changes, political conditions or other developments may result in business disruption, supply constraints, foreign currency devaluation, inflation, deflation or decreased demand. Unstable economic and political conditions or civil unrest in the countries in which we operate could have adverse impacts on our business results or financial condition. Our operations outside of the United States accounted for 44% and 35% of our net revenue and operating profit, respectively, for the year ended December 29, 2007. Our continued success depends on our ability to broaden and strengthen our presence in emerging markets, such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, and to create scale in key international markets.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments  

PepsiCo has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2007 fiscal year and that remain unresolved.  

 Item 2. Properties