Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  

AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions)    

General    

During 2008, the Company continued to strengthen its financial performance through the implementation of the Company’s strategic plan and the expansion of its national platform. The Company has been successful in growing many of its focus areas, in such areas as esoteric testing, disease management and companion diagnostics.  

Effective January 1, 2007, the Company commenced its successful implementation of its ten-year agreement with United Healthcare Insurance Company (“UnitedHealthcare”) and became its exclusive national laboratory provider. Over a period of several years, the Company will continue to perform more of UnitedHealthcare’s testing. During the first three years of the ten-year agreement, the Company has committed to reimburse UnitedHealthcare up to $200.0 for transition costs related to developing expanded networks in defined markets. Since the inception of this agreement, approximately $74.6 of such transition payments were billed to the Company by UnitedHealthcare and approximately $74.4 had been remitted by the Company. Based on trend rates of the transition payment amounts billed by UnitedHealthcare during 2008 and 2007, the Company believes that its total reimbursement commitment under this agreement will be approximately $125.6. The Company is amortizing the total estimated transition costs over the life of the contract. 

Effective January 1, 2008 the Company acquired additional partnership units in its Ontario, Canada (“Ontario”) joint venture for approximately $140.9 in cash (net of cash acquired), bringing the Company’s percentage interest owned up to 85.6%. Concurrent with this acquisition, the terms of the joint venture’s partnership agreement were amended. Based upon the amended terms of this agreement, the Company began including the consolidated operating results, financial position and cash flows of the Ontario joint venture in the Company’s consolidated financial statements on January 1, 2008. The amended joint venture’s partnership agreement also enables the holders of the minority interest to put the remaining partnership units to the Company in defined future periods, at an initial amount equal to the consideration paid by the Company in 2008, and subject to adjustment based on market value formulas contained in the agreement. The initial difference of $123.0 between the value of the put and the underlying minority interest was recorded as additional minority interest liability and as a reduction to additional paid-in capital in the consolidated financial statements. The contractual value of the put, in excess of the current minority interest of $22.5, totals $98.8 at December 31, 2008. 

Seasonality 

The majority of the Company’s testing volume is dependent on patient visits to doctor’s offices and other providers of health care. Volume of testing generally declines during the year-end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year. 

Results of Operations  

Effective January 1, 2008, the Company began consolidating the results of its Ontario joint venture. Certain analysis of the Company’s operating results is provided below, excluding the impact of this consolidation, in order to facilitate comparison with the prior period’s results. 

36  

Years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 

Net Sales 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in net sales for the three years ended December 31, 2008 has been driven primarily by volume growth in the Company’s Managed Care business, the impact of acquisitions and the Company’s continued shift in test mix to higher priced genomic and esoteric tests. Excluding the Ontario operation, Managed Care revenue as a percentage of net sales has increased from 42.6% in 2006 to 44.5% in 2008. Excluding the Ontario operation,the Company’s genomic and esoteric volume increased as a percentage of accessions from 19.7% in 2006 to 21.6% in 2008. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded a $7.5 cumulative revenue adjustment relating to certain historic overpayments made by Medicare for claims submitted by a subsidiary of the Company. Net sales of the Ontario joint venture were $249.0 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. 

Cost of Sales 

Years Ended December 31,   

% Change    

2008    

2007    

2006    

2008    

2007    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Cost of sales as a % of sales   

58.4%   

58.4%   

57.4%    

Cost of sales, which includes primarily laboratory and distribution costs, has increased over the three year period ended December 31, 2008 primarily due to increased volume in the Company’s Managed Care business, the impact of acquisitions and the continued shift in test mix to higher cost genomic and esoteric testing. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales has increased during the three year period ended December 31, 2008 from 57.4% in 2006 to 58.4% in 2008 and 2007. Excluding the Ontario operation, cost of sales as a percentage of net sales was 59.1% for 2008. The increase in cost of sales from 2007 to 2008 as a percentage of net sales is primarily due to increases in the cost of materials, which is caused by shifts in the Company’s test mix. From 2006 to 2007, the increase in cost of sales was driven by the Company’s roll-out of patient service centers and other customer service infrastructure, along with  

37  

increases in cost of materials due to shifts in the Company’s test mix. Labor and testing supplies comprise over 75% of the Company’s cost of sales. 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 

Years Ended December 31,   

% Change    

2008    

2007    

2006    

2008    

2007    

Selling, general and  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

SG&A as a % of sales   

20.8%   

19.9%   

21.7%    

Total selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) as a percentage of sales over the three year period ended December 31, 2008 have ranged from 21.7% to 19.9%. Excluding the Ontario operation, SG&A as a percentage of net sales was 21.0% for 2008. Bad debt expense increased to 6.2% of net sales in 2008 as compared with 4.8% in 2007 primarily due to an increase of $45.0 in the Company’s provision for doubtful accounts recorded in the second quarter of 2008, due to the impact of the economy, higher patient deductibles and copayments, and recent acquisitions on the collectibility of accounts receivable balances. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company also recorded charges of $3.7 related to the acceleration of the recognition of stock compensation and certain defined benefit plan obligations due to the retirement of the Company’s Executive Vice President of Corporate Affairs which was effective December 31, 2008. From 2006 to 2007, the decrease in SG&A as a percentage of net sales was due to 2006 including charges of $12.3 primarily related to the acceleration of the recognition of stock compensation due to the retirement of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, which was effective December 31, 2006. In addition, the Managed Care volume and revenue growth in 2007 drove an increase in net sales of $477.4, or 13.3%, while the Company controlled costs and also made reductions in work force.  

Amortization of Intangibles and Other Assets 

Years Ended December 31,   

% Change    

2008    

2007    

2006    

2008    

2007    

Amortization of intangibles  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets over the three year period ended December 31, 2008 primarily reflects certain acquisitions closed during 2008 and 2007.  

Restructuring and Other Special Charges 

Years Ended December 31,    

2008    

2007    

2006     

Restructuring and other  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

During 2008, the Company recorded charges primarily related to work force reductions and the closing of redundant and underutilized facilities. For 2008, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $32.4. Of this amount, $20.9 related to severance and other employee costs in connection with the general work force reductions and $13.4 related to contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and equipment. The Company also recorded a credit of $1.9, comprised of $1.2 of previously recorded facility costs and $0.7 of employee severance benefits relating to changes in cost estimates accrued in prior periods. These restructuring initiatives are expected to provide annualized cost savings of approximately $62.0. 

During the third quarter of 2008, the Company also recorded a special charge of $5.5 related to estimated uncollectible amounts primarily owed by patients in the areas of the Gulf Coast severely impacted by hurricanes similar to losses incurred during the 2005 hurricane season. 

38  

During 2007, the Company recorded charges related to reductions in work force and consolidation of redundant and underutilized facilities. For 2007, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $50.6. Of this amount, $24.8 related to employee severance benefits for employees primarily in management, administrative, technical, service and support functions and $19.4 related to contractual obligations and other costs associated with the closure of facilities. The charges also included a write-off of approximately $6.5 of accounts receivable balances remaining on a subsidiary’s billing system that was abandoned during the year and $0.9 related to settlement of a preacquisition employment liability. The Company also recorded a credit of $1.0, comprised of $0.7 of previously recorded facility costs and $0.3 of employee severance benefits. 

During the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $1.0 related to certain expense-reduction initiatives undertaken across the Company’s corporate and divisional operations. This net charge was the result of a charge of $2.4 related to employee severance benefits for employees primarily in administrative and support functions, and a credit of $1.4 related to occupying a testing facility that had previously been shut down. 

Interest Expense 

Years Ended December 31,   

% Change    

2008    

2007    

2006    

2008    

2007    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The increase in interest expense for 2008 as compared to 2007 was primarily due to borrowings outstanding under the Term Loan Facility since October 2007 and the Revolving Facility that totaled $475.0 and $70.8, respectively, at December 31, 2008. The increase in interest expense for 2007 as compared to 2006 was driven primarily by borrowings under the five-year, $500.0 Term Loan Facility in October 2007. 

Income from Joint Venture Partnerships 

Years Ended December 31,   

% Change    

2008    

2007    

2006    

2008    

2007    

Income from joint  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Income from investments in joint venture partnerships represents the Company’s ownership share in joint venture partnerships. During 2007 and 2006, a significant portion of this income was derived from investments in Ontario and Alberta, Canada, and was earned in Canadian dollars. Effective January 1, 2008, the income from the Ontario operation is included in the consolidated operating results of the Company, which is the primary reason for the lower income from investments in joint venture partnerships in 2008 as compared with 2007. From 2006 to 2007, the increase in income from the investments in joint venture partnerships was driven by improvement in operational performance and favorable exchange rates. 

Income Tax Expense 

Years Ended December 31,    

2008    

2007    

2006     

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Income tax expense as a % 

of income before tax   

39.9%   

40.6%   

40.1%    

The effective tax rate for 2008 was favorably impacted by the fifth protocol amending the existing tax treaty with Canada entered into force December 15, 2008. A net reduction of $7.1 of the Company’s income tax expense was recorded to reflect the impact of amending prior period income tax returns as a result of this treaty change. The increase in the effective tax rate for 2007 as compared to 2006 was primarily the result of higher foreign related earnings. 

39  

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position 

The Company’s strong cash-generating capability and financial condition typically have provided ready access to capital markets. The Company’s principal source of liquidity is operating cash flow. This cash-generating capability is one of the Company’s fundamental strengths and provides substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. In addition, the Company has senior unsecured credit facilities that are further discussed in “Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” 

Operating Activities 

In 2008, the Company’s operations provided $780.9 of cash, net of $42.4 in transition payments to UnitedHeathcare, reflecting the Company’s solid business results. The growth in the Company’s cash flow from operations primarily resulted from improved cash collections and lower payments for income taxes of $60.6 ($211.8 in 2008 as compared with $272.4 in 2007). The Company continued to focus on efforts to increase cash collections from all payers, as well as on-going improvements to the claim submission processes.  

The Company did not make any contributions to its defined benefit pension plan in 2008, 2007 and 2006. However, based upon the underlying value of the defined pension plan’s assets and the amount of the pension plan’s benefit obligation as of December 31, 2008, the Company plans to contribute $54.8 to the defined benefit pension plan during 2009. 

Due to the stock market’s performance in 2008, the fair value of assets in the defined pension plan decreased significantly from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. As a result, the Company’s projected pension expense for the defined pension plan and the nonqualified supplemental retirement plan is expected to increase from $19.5 in 2008 to $34.2 in 2009. See “Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further discussion of the Company’s pension and postretirement plans. 

Investing Activities 

Capital expenditures were $156.7, $142.6 and $115.9 for 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $130.0 in 2009. The Company will continue to make important investments in its business, including information technology. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations, as well as borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facilities as needed.  

The Company remains committed to growing its business through strategic acquisitions and licensing agreements. The Company has invested a total of $603.1 over the past three years in strategic business acquisitions. These acquisitions have helped strengthen the Company’s geographic presence along with expanding capabilities in the specialty testing businesses. The Company believes the acquisition market remains attractive, especially in light of recent credit market corrections, with a number of opportunities to strengthen its scientific capabilities, grow esoteric testing capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas. 

The Company has invested a total of $2.1 over the past three years in licensing new testing technologies and had $40.5 net book value of capitalized patents, licenses and technology at December 31, 2008. While the Company continues to believe its strategy of entering into licensing and technology distribution agreements with the developers of leading-edge technologies will provide future growth in revenues, there are certain risks associated with these investments. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risk that the licensed technology will not gain broad acceptance in the marketplace; or that insurance companies, managed care organizations, or Medicare and Medicaid will not approve reimbursement for these tests at a level commensurate with the costs of running the tests. Any or all of these circumstances could result in impairment in the value of the related capitalized licensing costs. 

40  

Financing Activities 

On October 26, 2007, the Company entered into senior unsecured credit facilities totaling $1,000.0. The credit facilities consist of a five-year Revolving Facility in the principal amount of $500.0 and a five-year, $500.0 Term Loan Facility. The balances outstanding on the Company’s Term Loan Facility at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $475.0 and $500.0, respectively. The balances outstanding on the Company’s Revolving Facility at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $70.8 and $0.0, respectively. The senior unsecured credit facilities bear interest at varying rates based upon LIBOR plus a percentage based on the Company’s credit rating with Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. 

The senior credit facilities contain certain debt covenants, which require that the Company maintain leverage and interest coverage ratios of 2.5 to 1.0 and 5.0 to 1.0, respectively. Both ratios are calculated in relation to EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization). The covenants also restrict the payment of dividends. The Company is in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2008. 

On September 15, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (“Lehman”), whose subsidiaries have a $28.0 commitment in the Company’s Revolving Facility, filed for bankruptcy. Accordingly, the Company does not expect Lehman will fulfill its pro rata share of any future borrowing requests under the Revolving Facility. The Company is considering various options regarding this current limitation on the Revolving Facility. 

On March 31, 2008, the Company entered into a three-year interest rate swap agreement to hedge variable interest rate risk on the Company’s variable interest rate term loan. Under the swap the Company will, on a quarterly basis, pay a fixed rate of interest (2.92%) and receive a variable rate of interest based on the three-month LIBOR rate on an amortizing notional amount of indebtedness equivalent to the term loan balance outstanding. The swap has been designated as a cash flow hedge. Accordingly, the Company recognizes the fair value of the swap in the consolidated balance sheet and any changes in the fair value are recorded as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The fair value of the interest rate swap agreement is the estimated amount that the Company would pay or receive to terminate the swap agreement at the reporting date. The fair value of the swap was a liability of $13.5 at December 31, 2008 and is included in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. The Company is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparty to the swap agreement. Management does not expect the counterparty to fail to meet its obligation given the strong creditworthiness of the counterparty to the agreement. 

As of December 31, 2008, the interest rates on the Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Facility were 3.67% and 1.89%, respectively. 

During 2008, the Company repurchased $330.6 of stock representing 4.6 shares. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had outstanding authorization from the Board of Directors to purchase approximately $95.2 of Company common stock. 

On September 22, 2006, the Company announced that it had commenced an exchange offer related to its zero-coupon subordinated notes due 2021. In the exchange offer, the Company offered to exchange a new series of zero-coupon convertible subordinated notes due September 11, 2021 (the “New Notes”) and an exchange fee of $2.50 per $1,000 aggregate principal amount at maturity for all of the outstanding zero-coupon subordinated notes due 2021 (the “Old Notes”). 

The purpose of the exchange offer was to exchange the Old Notes for the New Notes with certain different terms, including the addition of a net share settlement feature. The net share settlement feature requires the Company to satisfy its obligation due upon conversion to holders of the New Notes in cash for a portion of the conversion obligation equal to the accreted principal of the New Notes and in shares for the remainder of the conversion value. In addition, the New Notes provide that the Company eliminate its option to issue shares in lieu of paying cash if and when the Company repurchases the New Notes at the option of holders.  

On October 23, 2006, the exchange offer expired. Following settlement of the exchange, $741.2 in aggregate principal amount at maturity of the New Notes and $2.6 in aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Old Notes were outstanding. 

41  

Credit Ratings    

The Company’s debt ratings of Baa3 from Moody’s and BBB from Standard and Poor’s contribute to its ability to access capital markets.  

Contractual Cash Obligations [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a)    

Contingent future licensing payments will be made if certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met.    

(b)   

Holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may require the Company to purchase in cash all or a portion of their notes on September 11, 2011 at $819.54 per note ($604.7 in the aggregate). Should the holders put the notes to the Company on that date, the Company believes that it will be able to satisfy this contingent obligation with cash on hand, borrowings on the revolving credit facility, and additional financing if necessary. As announced by the Company on January 6, 2009, the zero-coupon subordinated notes may not be converted during the period of January 1, 2009 through March 31, 2009 because the common stock trading price conversion feature of the zero-coupon subordinated notes was not triggered by fourth quarter 2008 trading prices. See “Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information regarding the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes.    

(c)   

The table does not include obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are included in “Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Benefits under the Company’s postretirement medical plan are made when claims are submitted for payment, the timing of which are not practicable to estimate. The Company plans to contribute $54.8 to the defined benefit pension plan during 2009.    

(d)   

The table does not include the Company’s contingent obligation to reimburse up to $200.0 in transition costs during the first three years of the UnitedHealthcare contract. The Company anticipates that it has approximately $51.2 remaining to be paid out on this contingent obligation.    

(e)   

The table does not include the Company’s reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. The Company had an $86.7 and $66.5 reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which is included in “Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Substantially all of these tax reserves are classified in other long-term liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007.     

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

The Company does not have transactions or relationships with “special purpose” entities, and the Company does not have any off balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases. 

42  

Other Commercial Commitments 

At December 31, 2008, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $97.4, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs and contractual guarantees on obligations under the Company’s contract with UnitedHealthcare. The UnitedHealthcare contract requires that the Company provide a $50.0 letter of credit, as security for the Company’s contingent obligation to reimburse up to $200.0 in transition costs during the first three years of the contract. Letters of credit provided by the Company are secured by the Company’s senior credit facilities and are renewed annually, around mid-year. 

Effective January 1, 2008 the Company acquired additional partnership units in its Ontario, Canada (“Ontario”) joint venture for approximately $140.9 in cash (net of cash acquired), bringing the Company’s percentage interest owned up to 85.6%. Concurrent with this acquisition, the terms of the joint venture’s partnership agreement were amended. Based upon the amended terms of this agreement, the Company began including the consolidated operating results, financial position and cash flows of the Ontario joint venture in the Company’s consolidated financial statements on January 1, 2008. The amended joint venture’s partnership agreement also enables the holders of the minority interest to put the remaining partnership units to the Company in defined future periods, at an initial amount equal to the consideration paid by the Company in 2008, and subject to adjustment based on market value formulas contained in the agreement. The initial difference of $123.0 between the value of the put and the underlying minority interest was recorded as additional minority interest liability and as a reduction to additional paid-in capital in the consolidated financial statements. The contractual value of the put, in excess of the current minority interest of $22.5, totals $98.8 at December 31, 2008. 

At December 31, 2008, the Company was a guarantor on approximately $6.4 of equipment leases. These leases were entered into by a joint venture in which the Company owns a fifty percent interest and have a remaining term of approximately three years. 

Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its senior credit facilities, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its anticipated short-term and long-term cash needs; however, the Company continually reassesses its liquidity position in light of market conditions and other relevant factors.  

New Accounting Pronouncements 

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159 “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities – Including an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 115.” (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159 permits an entity to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be measured at fair value. The Company adopted this Statement as of January 1, 2008 and has elected not to apply the fair value option to any of its financial instruments. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements – an amendment of ARB No. 51.” SFAS No. 160 requires all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries as equity in the consolidated financial statements. This Statement is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2009. Earlier adoption is prohibited. Beginning in 2009, the Company will report minority interests in subsidiaries as equity in accordance with SFAS No. 160. 

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), a revised version of SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations.” The revision is intended to simplify existing guidance and converge rulemaking under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with international accounting rules. This statement applies prospectively to business combinations where the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. An entity may not apply it before that date. Beginning in 2009, the Company will record acquisitions in accordance with SFAS 141(R). 

In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, “Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133.” SFAS 161 requires additional disclosures about the objectives of using derivative instruments, the method by which the derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under FASB Statement No. 133 and its related  

43  

interpretations, and the effect of derivative instruments and related hedged items on financial position, financial performance, and cash flows. SFAS 161 also requires disclosure of the fair values of derivative instruments and their gains and losses in a tabular format. SFAS 161 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after November 15, 2008. Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, the Company will provide the additional disclosures in accordance with SFAS 161. 

In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 142-3, “Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets,” which amends the factors that should be considered in developing renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.” This pronouncement requires enhanced disclosures concerning a company’s treatment of costs incurred to renew or extend the term of a recognized intangible asset. FSP 142-3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company does not expect the adoption of FSP 142-3 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 

In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS 162, “The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.” SFAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the accounting principles to be used. Any effect of applying the provisions of this statement will be reported as a change in accounting principle in accordance with SFAS No. 154, “Accounting Changes and Error Corrections.” SFAS 162 is effective sixty days following the SEC’s approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board amendments to AU Section 411, “The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity With Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.” The Company does not expect the adoption of this statement will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 

In May 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No. APB 14-1, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that May be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion.” APB 14-1 requires that the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) be separately accounted for in a manner that reflects an issuer’s nonconvertible debt borrowing rate. The resulting debt discount is amortized over the period the convertible debt is expected to be outstanding as additional non-cash interest expense. APB 14-1 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years. Retrospective application to all periods presented is required except for instruments that were not outstanding during any of the periods that will be presented in the annual financial statements for the period of adoption but were outstanding during an earlier period. APB 14-1 impacts the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes, and will require that additional interest expense essentially equivalent to the portion of issuance proceeds retroactively allocated to the instrument’s equity component be recognized over the period from the zero-coupon subordinated notes’ issuance in 2001 through September 2004 (the first date holders of these notes had the ability to put them back to the Company). The Company has evaluated the impact of APB 14-1 and anticipates that its retrospective application will have no impact on results of operations for periods following 2004, but will result in an increase in opening additional paid-in capital and a corresponding decrease in opening retained earnings, net of deferred tax impacts, on post-2004 consolidated balance sheets. 

In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157-3, “Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active” (“FSP 157-3”). FSP 157-3 clarified the application of SFAS No. 157 in an inactive market. It demonstrated how the fair value of a financial asset is determined when the market for that financial asset is inactive. FSP 157-3 was effective upon issuance, including prior periods for which financial statements had not been issued. The implementation of this standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

In December 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 132(R)-1, “Employers’ Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets” (“FSP 132(R)-1”). FSP 132(R)-1 applies to an employer that is subject to the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 132(R). The objectives of the disclosures about plan assets in an employers’ defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan are to provide users of financial statements with an understanding of: (1) how investment allocation decisions are made, including the factors that are pertinent to an understanding of investment policies and strategies, (2) the major categories of plan assets, (3) the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets, (4) the effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) on changes in plan assets for the period, and (5) significant concentrations of risk within  

44  

plan assets. An employer should consider those overall objectives in providing detailed disclosures about plan assets. FSP 132(R)-1 is effective for years ending after December 15, 2009. Early application is permitted. Upon initial application, the provisions of FSP 132(R)-1 are not required for earlier periods that are presented for comparative periods. The Company is currently evaluating the impact the adoption of FSP 132(R)-1 could have on its consolidated financial statements. 

Critical Accounting Policies 

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. While management believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company’s Audit Committee periodically reviews the Company’s significant accounting policies. The Company’s critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following: 

•   

Revenue recognition and allowances for doubtful accounts;    

•   

Pension expense;    

•   

Accruals for self insurance reserves; and    

•   

Income taxes    

Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts 

Revenue is recognized for services rendered when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The Company’s sales are generally billed to three types of payers – clients, patients and third parties, such as managed care companies, Medicare and Medicaid. For clients, sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company’s client list price, less any negotiated discount. Patient sales are recorded at the Company’s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients. The Company bills third-party payers in two ways – fee-for-service and capitated agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company’s patient fee schedule amount, and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. The majority of the Company’s third-party sales are recorded using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, estimated fee schedules are maintained for each payer. Adjustments to the estimated payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to revenue. These adjustments are not material to the Company’s results of operations in any period presented. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated fee schedules based upon historical payment trends. Under capitated agreements with managed care companies, the Company recognizes revenue based on a negotiated monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of the number or costs of services performed.  

The Company has a formal process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period of time they have been outstanding. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level. The Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for doubtful accounts involves judgment, and considers such factors as the age of the underlying receivables, historical and projected collection experience, and other external factors that could affect the collectibility of its receivables. Accounts are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the Company’s write-off policy (e.g., when they are deemed to be uncollectible). In the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance, accounts are progressively reserved based on the historical timing of cash collections relative to their respective aging categories within the Company’s receivables. These collection and reserve processes, along with the close monitoring of the billing process, help reduce the risks of material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection or reimbursement experience. The following table presents the percentage of the Company’s net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category at December 31, 2008 and 2007: 

45  

Days Outstanding   

2008   

2007    

0 – 30   

43.6%   

42.5%    

31 – 60   

19.2%   

22.2%    

61 – 90   

11.3%   

10.6%    

91 – 120   

7.4%   

7.6%    

121 – 150   

4.4%   

4.7%    

151 – 180   

4.1%   

3.7%    

181 – 270   

8.2%   

7.3%    

271 – 360   

1.5%   

1.2%    

Over 360   

0.3%   

0.2%    

The above table excludes the Ontario operation’s percentage of net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category. The provincial government is the primary customer of the Ontario operation. The Company believes that including the aging for Ontario would not be representative of the majority of the accounts receivable by aging category for the Company. 

Pension Expense 

Substantially all employees of the Company are covered by a defined benefit retirement plan (the “Company Plan”). The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years of credited service and compensation earned while an employee of LabCorp. The Company also has a nonqualified supplemental retirement plan which covers its senior management group and provides for additional benefits, due in part to limitations on benefits and pay imposed on the Company Plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.  

The Company’s net pension cost is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit retirement plans were a 6.5% discount rate and an 8.5% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets as of December 31, 2008.  

Discount Rate 

The Company uses a laddered bond portfolio model to develop a discount rate assumption used to value the benefit obligations of its retirement plans. The Company follows paragraph 186 of Financial Accounting Standard 106 in developing this rate. The Company obtains information on high-quality corporate (AA rating or higher) bonds from a nationally recognized credit rating agency with maturities that match the anticipated cash outflows of each plan. These bonds are then reviewed and outliers are discarded. The results of this analysis form the basis for the discount rate assumption used by the Company. A one percentage point reduction in the discount rate would have resulted in an increase in 2008 retirement plan expense of $3.6. 

Return on Plan Assets    

In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews its asset allocation and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a corresponding change in 2008 pension expense of $2.6. 

Net pension cost for 2008 was $19.5, including the impact of the $1.7 non-recurring executive retirement charge, as compared with $14.5 in 2007. Due to the stock market’s performance in 2008, the fair value of assets in the Company Plan decreased significantly from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008. As a result, the Company’s projected pension expense for the Company Plan and the nonqualified supplemental retirement plan is expected to increase from $19.5 in 2008 to $34.2 in 2009.  

46  

Further information on the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan is provided in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. 

Accruals for Self-insurance Reserves  

Accruals for self-insurance reserves (including workers’ compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on historical payment trends and claims history, along with current and estimated future economic conditions. 

The Company is self-insured for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company records an accrual for known and incurred but not reported claims based on an actuarial assessment of the accrual driven by frequency and amounts of claims, which is performed at least annually.  

 Income Taxes  

The Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit, unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that the Company believes is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties in income tax expense. 

47  

 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 

The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions by Company management, forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “seeks”, “approximately”, “intends”, “plans”, “estimates”, or “anticipates” or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Company’s other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including: 

1.   

changes in federal, state, local and third-party payer regulations or policies (or in the interpretation of current regulations) affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing;     

2.   

adverse results from investigations of clinical laboratories by the government, which may include significant monetary damages and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs;    

3.   

loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid, the False Claims Act or other federal, state or local agencies;    

4.   

failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, which may result in penalties and loss of licensure;    

5.   

failure to comply with HIPAA, including changes to federal and state privacy and security obligations and changes to HIPAA, which could result in increased costs, denial of claims and/or significant fines;    

6.   

failure of third-party payers to complete testing with the Company, or accept or remit transactions in HIPAA-required standard transaction and code set format, (including NPI), which could result in an interruption in the Company’s cash flow;    

7.   

increased competition, including competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry;    

8.   

increased price competition, competitive bidding for laboratory tests and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules;    

9.   

changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated managed-cost health care or the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans;    

10.   

failure to obtain and retain new customers and alliance partners, or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers;    

11.   

failure to retain or attract managed care business as a result of changes in business models, including new risk based or network approaches, or other changes in strategy or business models by managed care companies;    

12.   

failure to effectively integrate and/or manage newly acquired businesses and the cost related to such integration;    

13.   

adverse results in litigation matters;    

48  

14.   

inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;    

15.   

failure to maintain the Company’s days sales outstanding and/or bad debt expense levels;    

16.   

decrease in the Company’s credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s;    

17.   

discontinuation or recalls of existing testing products;    

18.   

failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, or if customers use new technologies to perform their own tests;    

19.   

inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate coverage or reimbursement for such tests, which could result in impairment in the value of certain capitalized licensing costs;    

20.   

changes in government regulations or policies affecting the approval, availability of, and the selling and marketing of diagnostic tests;    

21.   

inability to obtain and maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights for protection of the Company’s products and services and successfully enforce the Company’s proprietary rights;    

22.   

the scope, validity and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties which might have an impact on the Company’s ability to develop, perform, or market the Company’s tests or operate its business;     

23.   

failure in the Company’s information technology systems resulting in an increase in testing turnaround time or billing processes or the failure to meet future regulatory or customer information technology and connectivity requirements;    

24.   

failure of the Company’s financial information systems resulting in failure to meet required financial reporting deadlines;    

25.   

failure of the Company’s disaster recovery plans to provide adequate protection against the interruption of business and/or to permit the recovery of business operations;    

26.   

business interruption or other impact on the business due to adverse weather (including hurricanes), fires and/or other natural disasters and terrorism or other criminal acts;    

27.   

liabilities that result from the inability to comply with corporate governance requirements;    

28.   

significant deterioration in the economy or financial markets could negatively impact the Company’s testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit for general liquidity or other financing needs; and    

29.   

changes in reimbursement by foreign governments and foreign currency fluctuations.    

49  

Item 7A.