Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  

Financial Instruments, Other Financial Instruments, and Derivative Commodity Instruments. SFAS No. 107, Disclosure of Fair Value of Financial Instruments, requires disclosure about fair value of financial instruments. Financial instruments consist of cash equivalents, accounts receivable, and debt obligations. Except for our outstanding convertible note, the fair value of these financial instruments approximates their carrying amount. As of September 27, 2008 we have $1.725 billion of Convertible Notes outstanding. The fair value of our Convertible Notes was approximately $1.3 billion as of September 27, 2008 based on the trading price as of that date.  

Primary Market Risk Exposures. Our primary market risk exposures are in the areas of interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. We incur interest expense on borrowings outstanding under our Amended Credit Agreement and on the debt assumed as a result of our acquisition of AEG. Borrowings under the Amended Credit Agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, with respect to the   

79  

Table of Contents 

 borrowings under the Term Loan A of either (1) the Base Rate (the greater of the prime rate as quoted in The Wall Street Journal and the Federal Funds Effective Rate) plus 1.5% or (2) the Eurodollar Rate, plus 2.5% and with respect to the Term Loan B of either (1) the Base Rate (the greater of the prime rate as quoted in The Wall Street Journal and the Federal Funds Effective Rate) plus 2.25% or (2) the Eurodollar Rate, plus 3.25%.  

On July 17, 2008, the date we entered into the Amended Credit Agreement, we borrowed $400 million under the Term Loan A and $140 million under the Term Loan B. As of September 27, 2008, there was approximately $465 million outstanding under the Amended Credit Agreement, including $344.4 million under the Term Loan A facility which matures on September 30, 2012 and $120.6 million under the Term Loan B facility which matures on March 31, 2013.  

The terms of the AEG debt agreements have various maturities ranging from December 30, 2010 through March 30, 2014. Interest rates are variable and had weighted average interest rates ranging from 5.5% to 7.2% during the twelve months ended September 27, 2008. We may also incur interest expense on loans made under a European line of credit that accrues interest at the Europe Interbank Offered Rate 7.5%, as defined. At September 27, 2008, there were no amounts outstanding under the European line of credit.  

These debt obligations are variable rate instruments and our interest expense associated with these instruments is, therefore, subject to changes in market interest rates. A 10% adverse movement (increase in LIBOR) would increase annual interest expense by approximately $2.4 million.  

The return from cash and cash equivalents will vary as short-term interest rates change. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in interest rates, however, would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Interest income on our cash and cash equivalents is recorded as a component of Other Income in our accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Risk. Our international business is subject to risks, including, but not limited to: unique economic conditions, changes in political climate, differing tax structures, other regulations and restrictions, and foreign exchange rate volatility. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely impacted by changes in these or other factors.  

We maintain sales and service offices outside the United States, have manufacturing facilities in Germany, Costa Rica and China, and conduct business worldwide. The expenses of our international offices are denominated in local currencies, except at our Costa Rica subsidiary, where the majority of the business is conducted in U.S. dollars. Our foreign sales are denominated in local currencies, the Euro or U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the foreign currency rates could affect our cost of goods and operating margins and could result in exchange losses. In addition, currency devaluations can result in a loss if we hold deposits of that currency.  

We believe that the operating expenses of our international subsidiaries that are incurred in local currencies will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our operating results and certain assets and liabilities that are denominated in the Euro are affected by changes in the relative strength of the U.S. dollar against the Euro. Our expenses are positively affected when the United States dollar strengthens against the Euro and adversely affected when the United States dollar weakens. However, we believe that the foreign currency exchange risk is not significant. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred foreign exchange (losses) gains of approximately ($658,000), ($440,000) and $30,000, respectively.  

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.