ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

 Interest Rate and Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks. United’s exposure to market risk associated with changes in interest rates relates primarily to its debt obligations and short-term investments. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. United’s policy is to manage interest rate risk through a combination of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into swap agreements, depending upon market conditions. A portion of United’s aircraft lease obligations and related accrued interest ($306 million in equivalent U.S. dollars at December 31, 2008) is denominated in foreign currencies that expose the Company to risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates. To hedge against this risk, United has placed foreign currency deposits ($306 million in equivalent U.S. dollars at December 31, 2008), primarily for euros, to meet foreign currency lease obligations denominated in that respective currency. Since unrealized mark-to-market gains or losses on the foreign currency deposits are offset by the losses or gains on the foreign currency obligations, United has hedged its overall exposure to foreign currency exchange rate volatility with respect to its foreign lease deposits and obligations. The fair value of these deposits is determined based on the present value of future cash flows using an appropriate swap rate. The fair value of long-term debt is predominantly based on the present value of future cash flows using a U.S. Treasury rate that matches the remaining life of the instrument, adjusted by a credit spread and, to a lesser extent, on the quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments. The table below presents information as of December 31, 2008 about certain of the Company’s financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest and exchange rates. Amounts shown below are the same for both UAL and United, except as noted.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Amounts also represent United except that in 2008, United’s carrying value and fair value of its cash equivalents and debt obligations are approximately $6 million and $2 million, respectively, lower than the reported UAL amounts. The reported 2007 cash equivalents balance includes cash of $1.3 billion with a weighted average rate of 5.12% and short-term investments of $2.3 billion with a weighted average rate of 5.04%. United’s 2007 cash equivalents and debt obligations were approximately $56 million and $3 million, respectively, lower than the amounts reported for UAL.    

 In addition to the cash equivalents included in the table above, UAL and United have $54 million and $50 million of short-term restricted cash, respectively, and $218 million and $217 million, respectively, of long-term restricted cash. As discussed in Note 1(d), “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Cash and Cash Equivalents, Short-Term Investments and Restricted Cash” in Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, this cash is being held in restricted accounts primarily for workers’ compensation obligations, security deposits for airport leases and reserves with institutions that process United’s credit card ticket sales. Due to the short term nature of these cash balances, their carrying values approximate their fair values. The Company’s interest income is exposed to changes in interest rates on these cash balances. During 2007, the Company also repurchased certain of its own debt instruments, which remain outstanding and have a fair value and carrying value of $46 million at  

 74   
 December 31, 2008. The Company recognizes changes in fair value of these securities through other comprehensive income; however, on a net basis, the Company is not exposed to market risk due to the existence of offsetting changes in the fair value of the Company’s related debt obligations.  

 The material changes in the amounts reported in the table above for 2008 as compared to 2007 include the following: (1) cash and short-term investments decreased by approximately $1.5 billion primarily due to cash used for operating activities as discussed in Liquidity above; (2) lease deposits decreased by $190 million due to scheduled payments and aircraft acquisitions under lease agreement terms; and (3) debt obligations decreased by $316 million primarily due to scheduled debt repayments in 2008, which were partially offset by new debt issuances in 2008. The interest rate on the Company’s cash and variable rate debt decreased in 2008, as compared to 2007, primarily due to a decrease in market interest rates.  

 Commodity Price Risk (Jet Fuel). Our results of operations and liquidity have been, and may continue to be, materially impacted by changes in the price of aircraft fuel and other oil-related commodities and related derivative instruments. When market conditions indicate risk reduction is achievable, United may use commodity option contracts or other derivative instruments to reduce its price risk exposure to jet fuel. The Company’s derivative positions are typically comprised of crude oil, heating oil and jet fuel derivatives. The derivative instruments are designed to provide protection against increases in the price of aircraft fuel. Some derivative instruments may result in hedging losses if the underlying commodity prices drop below specified floors; however, the negative impact of these losses may be offset by the benefit of lower jet fuel acquisition cost since the Company typically does not hedge all of its fuel consumption. United may adjust its hedging program based on changes in market conditions. At December 31, 2008, the fair value of United’s fuel-related derivatives was a payable of $867 million, as compared to a receivable of $20 million at December 31, 2007. The primary reason for this change was due to the dramatic spike in fuel prices through July 2008 and the subsequent fuel price decreases in the latter part of 2008. At December 31, 2008, the fuel derivative payables includes $140 million related to pending settlements for purchased options and expired contracts.  

 As of December 31, 2008, the Company had hedged its forecasted consolidated fuel consumption as shown in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 75   
  (a)    Percent of expected consumption represents the notional amount of the purchased calls in the hedge structures. Certain 3-way collars and collars included in the table above have sold puts with twice the notional amount of the purchased calls. The percentages in parentheses represent the notional amount of sold puts in these hedge structures.   

  (b)    Call position average includes the following two groupings of positions: 6% of consumption with protection beginning at $47 per barrel and 8% of consumption beginning at $106 per barrel.   

  (c)    Call position average includes the following two groupings of positions: 4% of consumption with protection beginning at $50 per barrel and 5% of consumption beginning at $106 per barrel.    

 As presented in the table above, in 2008 the Company began modifying its fuel hedge portfolio by purchasing put options contracts to effectively cap losses on its short put option positions from further oil price decreases. The Company may take additional actions to reduce potential losses and collateral requirements that could arise from its short put option positions. Certain 3-way collars and collars included in the table above have sold puts with twice the notional amount of the purchased calls. The Company’s exposure to losses, should the positions settle below the put exercise price, exceeds its potential benefit from price increases above the purchased call exercise price. The Company classifies gains (losses) resulting from these collar structures as nonoperating income (expense). As of December 31, 2008, the Company had hedged less than 1% of its 2010 forecasted fuel consumption.  

 The above derivative positions are subject to potential counterparty cash collateral requirements in some circumstances. The Company provided counterparties with cash collateral of $965 million as of December 31, 2008. This collateral decreased to $780 million as of January 19, 2009 primarily due to the settlement of the December 2008 contracts. Our counterparties may require greater amounts of collateral when the price of the underlying commodity decreases and lesser amounts when the price of the underlying commodity increases. However, the Company has mitigated some of its exposure to larger collateral requirements by purchasing puts to cover its short put positions as presented in the table above. The following table presents the Company’s actual collateral position as of January 19, 2009 and estimated fuel collateral position at the end of each quarter in 2009 based on the Company’s January 16, 2009 hedge positions and closing forward curve fuel prices:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Because United had already posted significant amounts of collateral during 2008, the 2009 net cash impacts of the hedge settlements are not expected to be material based on January 16, 2009 forward curve prices and the Company’s January 16, 2009 hedge position. As hedges settle, this collateral will be returned to cover cash settled losses. The following table presents information regarding estimated fuel purchase cost and estimated cash requirements to meet fuel hedge losses based on the Company’s actual collateral position as of January 19, 2009 using closing forward fuel prices as of January 16, 2009 and other factors.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Per gallon amount based on assumed cash requirements for fuel purchases, including related taxes and transportation costs   

  (b)    Per gallon amount based on assumed cash requirements for settlement of economic hedge contracts that have gains or losses classified within mainline fuel expense.   

  (c)    Assumed cash requirements for settlement of hedge contracts that are classified in nonoperating expense.    

 76   
 Actual collateral requirements, fuel purchase costs and cash requirements for hedge losses will vary depending on changes in forward fuel prices, modifications to the Company’s fuel hedge portfolio and other factors. The table below outlines the Company’s estimated collateral provisions at various crude oil prices, based on the hedge portfolio as of January 16, 2009.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 For example, using the table above, at an illustrative $35 per barrel at January 16, 2009, the Company’s required collateral provision to its derivative counterparties would be approximately $780 million.  

 Foreign Currency. United generates revenues and incurs expenses in numerous foreign currencies. Such expenses include fuel, aircraft leases, commissions, catering, personnel expense, advertising and distribution costs, customer service expenses and aircraft maintenance. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates impact the Company’s results of operations through changes in the dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses.  

 Despite the adverse effects a strengthening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S.-originating traffic, a strengthening of foreign currencies tends to increase reported revenue and operating income because the Company’s foreign currency-denominated operating revenue generally exceeds its foreign currency-denominated operating expense for each currency. Likewise, despite the favorable effects a weakening foreign currency may have on demand for U.S.-originating traffic, a weakening of foreign currencies tends to decrease reported revenue and operating income.  

 The Company’s most significant net foreign currency exposures in 2008, based on exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2008, are presented in the table below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a portion of its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2008, the Company hedged a portion of its expected foreign currency cash flows in the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and European Euro. As of December 31, 2008, the notional amount of these foreign currencies hedged with the forward contracts in U.S. dollars was approximately $62 million, based on contractual forward rates. These contracts had a fair value of $10 million at December 31, 2008 and expire at various dates through March 2009. As of December 31, 2007, the notional amount of these foreign currencies hedged with the forward contracts in U.S. dollars terms was approximately $346 million, with a fair value of $1 million.  

 77   
  ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA