PART I   

  ITEM 1.    BUSINESS.    

 UAL Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, “UAL”), a holding company whose principal subsidiary is United Air Lines, Inc. (together with its primary subsidiaries, “United”), was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware on December 30, 1968. We sometimes use the words “we,” “our,” “us,” and the “Company” in this Form 10-K for disclosures that relate to both UAL and United. Our world headquarters is located at 77 W. Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60601. The mailing address is P.O. Box 66919, Chicago, Illinois 60666 (telephone number (312) 997-8000).  

 This Annual Report on Form 10-K is a combined report of UAL and United. Unless otherwise noted, this information applies to both UAL and United. As UAL consolidates United for financial statement purposes, disclosures that relate to activities of United also apply to UAL. Most of UAL’s revenue and expenses in 2008 were from United’s airline operations. United transports people and cargo through its mainline operations, which utilize full-sized jet aircraft exceeding 70 seats in size, and its regional operations, which utilize smaller aircraft not exceeding 70 seats in size that are operated under contract by United Express® carriers.  

 The Company’s web address is www.united.com. The information contained on or connected to the Company’s web address is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Through this website, the Company’s filings with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are accessible without charge as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

 United Airlines operates nearly 3,000 flights a day on United and United Express to more than 200 U.S. domestic and international destinations from its hubs in Los Angeles, San Francisco, Denver, Chicago and Washington, D.C., based on its annual flight schedule as of January 1, 2009. With key global air rights in the Asia-Pacific region, Europe and Latin America, United is one of the largest international carriers based in the United States. United also is a founding member of Star Alliance, the world’s largest airline network, which provides connections for our customers to approximately 900 destinations in 159 countries worldwide. United offers a unique set of products and services to target distinct customer groups, which we believe allows us to generate a revenue premium. This strategy of market and product segmentation is intended to optimize margins and costs, and is focused on delivering an improved experience for all customers and a best-in-class experience for our premium customers. These services include:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 3   
 The Company also generates revenue through its Mileage Plus® Frequent Flyer Program (“Mileage Plus”), United Cargo SM and United Services. Mileage Plus contributed approximately $700 million to passenger and other revenue in 2008 and helps the Company attract and retain high-value customers. United Cargo generated $854 million in freight and mail revenue in 2008. United Services generated $167 million in revenue in 2008 by utilizing downtime of otherwise under-utilized aircraft maintenance resources through third-party maintenance services.  

 This Form 10-K contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements represent the Company’s expectations and beliefs concerning future events, based on information available to the Company on the date of the filing of this Form 10-K, and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those referenced in the forward-looking statements are listed in Item 1A, Risk Factors and in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company disclaims any intent or obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, unforeseen events, changed circumstances or otherwise.  

 Company Operational Plans  

 During 2008, UAL’s management and its Board of Directors were active in adjusting the Company’s operational plans in response to difficult industry conditions and the weakening global economy. Unprecedented increases in jet fuel prices during 2008 had a significant negative impact on our results of operations and were one of the leading factors that prompted the development of the Company’s operational plans, as described in Note 2, “Company Operational Plans,” in Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 The Company is taking actions to return to profitability and to strengthen liquidity, including the permanent removal of 100 aircraft from United’s mainline fleet; the elimination of the Ted product for leisure markets and the reconfiguration of Ted aircraft to include United First seating; the development of new revenue sources through delivery of new products and services valued by our customers; the streamlining of operations and corporate functions with a reduction of approximately 9,000 positions during 2008 and 2009; and the formation of a strategic alliance with Continental Airlines, all as further discussed in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 During 2008, the Company ceased operations to Ft. Lauderdale and West Palm Beach, Florida, two markets served by Ted, which uses an all-economy seating configuration to serve primarily leisure markets. In addition, during 2008, as part of its operational plans the Company ceased operations in certain non-Ted markets and also reduced frequencies in several Ted and non-Ted markets. In light of these planned capacity reductions and other factors, the Company also determined that it would eliminate its entire B737 fleet by the end of 2009. With the reduced need for Ted aircraft in leisure markets and an increased need for narrow body aircraft in non-Ted markets due to the elimination of the B737 fleet, the Company decided to reconfigure the entire Ted fleet of all-economy Airbus aircraft to include first class, as well as Economy Plus and economy seats. The reconfigured Airbus aircraft will provide United a consistent product offering for our customers and employees, and increases our fleet flexibility to redeploy aircraft onto former Ted and other narrow body routes as market conditions change.  

 Overall, the Company has characterized its business approach as “Focus on Five,” a comprehensive set of priorities that focus on the fundamentals of running a good airline: one that runs on time, with clean planes and courteous employees, that delivers industry-leading revenues and competitive costs and does so safely. Building on this foundation, United aims to regain its industry-leading position in key metrics reported by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) as well as industry-leading revenue driven by products, services, schedules and routes that are valued by the Company’s customers. The goal  

 4   
 of this approach is intended to enable United to achieve best-in-class safety performance, exceptional customer satisfaction and experience and industry-leading margin and cash flow.  

 Bankruptcy of Predecessor Company  

 On December 9, 2002 (the “Petition Date”), UAL, United, and 26 direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Debtors”) filed voluntary petitions to reorganize their businesses under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division (the “Bankruptcy Court”). On January 20, 2006, the Bankruptcy Court confirmed the Debtors’ Second Amended Joint Plan of Reorganization Pursuant to Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Plan of Reorganization”). The Plan of Reorganization became effective and the Debtors emerged from bankruptcy protection on February 1, 2006 (the “Effective Date”). On the Effective Date, the Company implemented fresh-start reporting in accordance with American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position 90-7, Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code (“SOP 90-7”), resulting in significant changes as compared to the historical financial statements.  

 During the course of its Chapter 11 proceedings, the Company successfully reached settlements with most of its creditors and resolved most pending claims against the Debtors. However, certain significant matters remain to be resolved in the Bankruptcy Court. For further details, see Note 4, “Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11—Significant Matters Remaining to be Resolved in Chapter 11 Cases,” in Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Operations  

 Segments. The Company operates its businesses through two reporting segments: Mainline and United Express. The Company manages its business as an integrated network with assets deployed across integrated mainline and regional carrier networks. This focus on managing the business seeks to maximize the profitability of the overall airline network. Financial information on the Company’s reporting segments and operating revenues by geographic regions, as reported to the DOT, can be found in Note 10, “Segment Information,” in Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Mainline. The Company’s mainline operating revenues were $17.1 billion, $17.0 billion and $16.4 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, mainline domestic operations served over 80 destinations primarily throughout the U.S. and Canada and operated hubs at Chicago O’Hare International Airport (“O’Hare”), Denver International Airport (“Denver”), Los Angeles International Airport (“LAX”), San Francisco International Airport (“SFO”) and Washington Dulles International Airport (“Washington Dulles”). Mainline international operations serve the Pacific, Atlantic and Latin America regions. The Pacific region includes non-stop service to Beijing, Hong Kong, Osaka, Seoul, Shanghai, Sydney and Tokyo and direct service to Bangkok, Seoul, Singapore and Taipei via Tokyo; direct service to Ho Chi Minh City and Singapore via Hong Kong and to Melbourne via Sydney. The Atlantic region includes non-stop service to Amsterdam, Brussels, Dubai, Frankfurt, Kuwait City, London, Munich, Paris, Rome and Zurich. The Latin American region offers non-stop service to Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro (seasonal non-stop) and Sao Paulo. The Latin American region also serves various Mexico destinations including Cancun, Cozumel (seasonal), Ixtapa/Zihuatanejo (seasonal), Mexico City, Puerto Vallarta and San Jose del Cabo; various Caribbean points including Aruba and seasonal service to Montego Bay, Punta Cana, and St. Maarten; and Central America including Liberia, Costa Rica (seasonal).  

 UAL’s operating revenues attributed to mainline domestic operations were $9.7 billion in 2008, $10.9 billion in 2007 and $10.0 billion in 2006. Operating revenues attributed to mainline international operations were $7.4 billion in 2008, $6.1 billion in 2007 and $6.4 billion in 2006. For purposes of the Company’s geographic revenue reporting, the Company considers destinations in Mexico and the Caribbean to be part of the Latin America region as opposed to the North America region.  

 5   
 The mainline segment operated 409 aircraft as of December 31, 2008, and produced 135.8 billion available seat miles (“ASMs”) and 110.1 billion revenue passenger miles (“RPMs”) during 2008; in 2007, the mainline segment produced 141.9 billion ASMs and 117.4 billion RPMs.  

 United Express. United Express operating revenues were $3.1 billion in both 2008 and 2007 and $2.9 billion in 2006. United has contractual relationships with various regional carriers to provide regional jet and turboprop service branded as United Express. United Express is an extension of the United mainline network. Chautauqua Airlines, Colgan Airlines, Go Jet Airlines, Mesa Airlines, Shuttle America, SkyWest Airlines and Trans States Airlines are all United Express carriers, most of which operate under capacity purchase agreements. Under these agreements, United pays the regional carriers contractually-agreed fees (carrier-controlled costs) for operating these flights plus a variable reimbursement (incentive payment) based on agreed performance metrics. The carrier-controlled costs are based on specific rates for various operating expenses of the United Express carriers, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership, some of which are multiplied by specific operating statistics (e.g., block hours, departures) while others are fixed monthly amounts. The incentive payment is a markup applied to the carrier-controlled costs for superior operational performance. Under these capacity agreements, United is responsible for all fuel costs incurred as well as landing fees, facilities rent and deicing costs, which are passed through without any markup. In return, the regional carriers operate this capacity on schedules determined by United. United also determines pricing, revenues and inventory levels and assumes the inventory and distribution risk for the available seats.  

 The capacity agreements which United has entered into with United Express carriers do not include the provision of ground handling services. As a result, United Express sources ground handling support from a variety of third-party providers as well as by utilizing internal United resources in some cases.  

 While the regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements comprise over 95% of United Express flying, the Company also has limited prorate agreements with Colgan Airlines and SkyWest Airlines. Under these prorate agreements, United and its prorate partners agree to divide revenue collected from each passenger according to a formula, while both United and the prorate partners are individually responsible for their own costs of operations. United also collects a program fee from Colgan Airlines to cover certain marketing and distribution costs such as credit card transaction fees, global distribution systems (“GDS”) transaction fees and frequent flyer costs. Unlike capacity purchase agreements, these prorate agreements require the regional carrier to retain the control and risk of scheduling, market selection, seat pricing and inventory for its flights.  

 United Express carriers operated 280 aircraft as of December 31, 2008, and produced 16.2 billion ASMs and 12.1 billion RPMs during 2008, while producing 16.3 billion ASMs and 12.6 billion RPMs in 2007.  

 United Cargo. United Cargo offers both domestic and international shipping through a variety of services including United Small Package Delivery, Express and General cargo services. Freight shipments comprise approximately 85% of United Cargo’s volumes, with mail comprising the remainder. During 2008, United Cargo accounted for approximately 4% of the Company’s operating revenues by generating $854 million in freight and mail revenue, an 11% increase versus 2007.  

 United Services. United Services is a global airline support business offering customers comprehensive aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul (“MRO”) services which include engine and line maintenance services. United Services brings nearly 80 years of experience to serve over 100 airline customer contracts worldwide. During 2008 and 2007, United Services generated approximately $167 million and $183 million, respectively, in third-party revenue.  

 Fuel. The price and availability of jet fuel significantly affects the Company’s results of operations. Fuel has been the Company’s largest operating expense for the last several years. The Company has a risk management strategy to hedge a portion of its price risk related to projected jet fuel requirements. The Company utilizes various types of hedging instruments including purchased calls, collars, 3-way collars and 4-way collars. A collar involves the purchase of fuel call options with the simultaneous sale of  

 6   
 fuel put options with identical expiration dates. If fuel prices rise above the ceiling of the collar, the Company’s counterparties are required to make settlement payments to the Company, while if fuel prices fall below the floor of the collars, the Company is required to make settlement payments to its fuel hedge counterparties. In addition, the Company has been and may in the future be further required to provide counterparties with cash collateral prior to settlement of the hedge positions.  

 In both 2008 and 2007, an increase in jet fuel prices was the primary reason for higher mainline and United Express fuel expense and aircraft fuel cost per gallon, as highlighted in the table below. The price of crude oil reached a record high of approximately $145 per barrel in July 2008 and then dramatically decreased in the second half of the year to approximately $45 per barrel at December 31, 2008. This significant fuel price volatility drove the Company’s total fuel hedge losses of more than $1.1 billion in 2008. A significant portion of these losses were unrealized as of December 31, 2008 and could increase or decrease in future periods based on future changes in market prices before the related hedge contracts settle. While the Company’s results of operations should benefit significantly from lower fuel prices on its unhedged fuel consumption, in the near term lower fuel prices could also significantly and negatively impact liquidity based on the amount of cash settlements and collateral that may be required.  

 The Company accounts for the majority of its fuel derivative contracts as economic hedges, which are marked-to-market with gains and losses classified as fuel expense. Remaining fuel derivative contracts which do not qualify for economic hedge accounting are marked-to-market with gains and losses classified as nonoperating expense. See Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Note 13, “Fair Value Measurements and Derivative Instruments,” in Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding gains and losses from settled and open positions, cash settlements, unrealized amounts at the end of the period and hedge collateral. Derivative gains and losses from contracts qualifying for economic hedge accounting are recorded in mainline fuel expense and are not allocated to United Express fuel expense.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    United Express fuel costs are classified as part of Regional affiliate expense.    

 To ensure adequate supplies of fuel and to provide a measure of control over fuel costs, the Company arranges to have fuel shipped on major pipelines and stored close to its major hub locations. Although the Company currently does not anticipate a significant reduction in the availability of jet fuel, a number of factors make predicting fuel prices and fuel availability uncertain, including changes in world energy demand, geopolitical uncertainties affecting energy supplies from oil-producing nations, industrial accidents, threats of terrorism directed at oil supply infrastructure, extreme weather conditions causing temporary shutdowns of production and refining capacity, as well as changes in relative demand for other petroleum products that may impact the quantity and price of jet fuel produced from period to period.  

 7   
 Alliances. United has a number of bilateral and multilateral alliances with other airlines, which enhance travel options for customers seeking access to markets that United does not serve directly. These marketing alliances typically include one or more of the following features: joint frequent flyer program participation; codesharing of flight operations (whereby seats on one carrier’s selected flights can be marketed under the brand name of another carrier); coordination of reservations, ticketing, passenger check-in, baggage handling and flight schedules; and other resource-sharing activities.  

 The most significant of these arrangements is the Star Alliance, a global integrated airline network co-founded by United in 1997. As of February 1, 2009, Star Alliance carriers serve approximately 900 destinations in 159 countries with over 16,500 average daily flights. Current Star Alliance partners, in addition to United, are Air Canada, Air China, Air New Zealand, All Nippon Airways, Asiana, the Austrian Airlines Group, bmi, EgyptAir, LOT Polish Airlines, Lufthansa, SAS, Shanghai Airlines, Singapore Airlines, South African Airways, Spanair, Swiss, TAP Portugal, THAI, Turkish Airlines and US Airways. Regional member carriers are Adria Airways (Slovenia), Blue1 (Finland) and Croatia Airlines. Air India, Brussels Airlines, Continental Airlines and TAM Airlines are expected to become future members of the Star Alliance.  

 United also has independent marketing agreements with other air carriers including Aer Lingus, Air One, Great Lakes Aviation, Gulfstream International, Hawaiian, Island Air, Qatar Airways, TACA Group and Virgin Blue.  

 Continental Alliance. In 2008, United and Continental announced their plan to form a new alliance partnership that will link the airlines’ networks and services worldwide to the benefit of customers, employees and shareholders, creating new revenue opportunities, cost savings and other efficiencies. In addition, Continental plans to join United and its 20 other partners in the Star Alliance, the most comprehensive airline alliance in the world. During 2008, United, Continental and eight other airlines submitted a request to the DOT and applicable foreign authorities to allow Continental to join United, Air Canada, Lufthansa and six other carriers in their already established anti-trust immunized alliance. If approved, the immunity will enable United, Air Canada, Continental and Lufthansa to implement a joint venture covering transatlantic routings that would deliver highly competitive flight schedules, fares and service. In the U.S. market, where antitrust immunity would not apply, customers will benefit as United and Continental plan to begin broad codesharing, which eases travel for customers flying on itineraries using both carriers, and cooperation on frequent flyer programs and airport lounges, subject to regulatory notice and Continental exiting certain of its current alliance relationships. In addition, United and Continental are also exploring opportunities to capture important cost savings in the areas of information technology, frequent flyer programs, airport operations, lounges, procurement and sales and marketing.  

 Continental’s and United’s route networks are highly complementary, with little overlap, so they add value to each other and to customers who are planning domestic and international travel. Under codesharing, customers will benefit from a coordinated process for reservations/ticketing, check-in, flight connections and baggage transfer. Frequent flyer reciprocity will allow members of Continental’s OnePass program and United’s Mileage Plus program to earn miles in their accounts when flying on either partner airline and redeem awards on both carriers. Continental’s plans to join the Star Alliance and other planned cooperation are subject to certain regulatory and other approvals and the termination of certain contractual relationships, including Continental’s existing agreements with SkyTeam members that restrict its participation in another global alliance.  

 Mileage Plus. Mileage Plus builds customer loyalty by offering awards and services to frequent travelers. Mileage Plus members can earn mileage credit for flights on United, United Express, Ted, members of the Star Alliance and certain other airlines that participate in the program. Miles can also be earned by purchasing the goods and services of our non-airline partners, such as hotels, car rental companies and credit card issuers. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel and non-travel awards. There are more than 54 million members enrolled in Mileage Plus. In 2008, 2.3 million Mileage Plus travel awards were used on United, as compared to 2.2 million in 2007  

 8   
 and 2.3 million in 2006. These amounts represent the number of awards for which travel was provided and not the number of available seats that were allocated to award travel. These awards represented 9.1% of United’s total revenue passenger miles in 2008, 8.0% in 2007 and 8.1% in 2006. In addition, Mileage Plus members redeemed miles for approximately 613,000 non-United awards in 2008 as compared to 928,000 in 2007. Non-United awards include awards such as Red Carpet club memberships, car and hotel awards, merchandise and travel solely on another air carrier. Total miles redeemed for travel on United in 2008, including travel awards and class-of-service upgrades, represented 89% of the total miles redeemed (for both completed and future travel). The Company expanded its offering of merchandise available for awards in 2009, which may increase the amount of non-travel awards.  

 For a detailed description of the accounting treatment of Mileage Plus program activity, which was changed to a deferred revenue model upon the adoption of fresh-start reporting on the Effective Date, see Critical Accounting Policies in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

 UAL Loyalty Services, LLC (“ULS”). ULS focuses on expanding the non-core marketing businesses of United and building airline customer loyalty. ULS operates substantially all United-branded travel distribution and customer loyalty e-commerce activities, such as united.com. In addition, ULS owns and operates Mileage Plus, being responsible for member relationships, communications and account management; while United is responsible for other aspects of Mileage Plus, including elite membership programs such as Global Services, Premier, Premier Executive and Premier Executive 1K, and the establishment of award mileage redemption programs and airline-related customer loyalty recognition policies. United is also responsible for managing relationships with its Mileage Plus airline partners, while ULS manages relationships with non-airline business partners, such as the Mileage Plus Visa Card, hotels, car rental companies and dining programs, among others.  

 Distribution Channels. The majority of United’s airline seat inventory continues to be distributed through the traditional channels of travel agencies and GDS, such as Sabre and Galileo. The growing use of alternative distribution systems, including www.united.com and GDS new entrants, provides United with an opportunity to lower its ticket distribution costs. To encourage customer use of lower-cost channels and capitalize on these cost-saving opportunities, the Company will continue to expand the capabilities of its website.  

 Industry Conditions  

 Seasonality. The air travel business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. The Company’s operations can be adversely impacted by severe weather and the first and fourth quarter results of operations normally reflect lower travel demand. Historically, results of operations are better in the second and third quarters which reflect higher levels of travel demand.  

 Domestic Competition. The domestic airline industry is highly competitive and dynamic. In domestic markets, new and existing carriers are generally free to initiate service between any two points within the United States. United’s competitors consist primarily of other airlines, a number of whom are low-cost carriers (“LCCs”) with cost structures lower than United’s, and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation.  

 The rate of capacity increases in the domestic market has slowed in the past several years, but LCCs have continued expanding into markets where United flies. United has extensive experience competing directly with LCCs in its markets and believes it is well positioned to compete effectively. In response to the adverse economic conditions in 2008, United and many of its competitors implemented significant capacity reductions in both domestic and international markets.  

 9   
 United’s capacity increases (decreases) for 2008 and its forecasted 2009 capacity decreases, as compared to the year-ago periods, are summarized in the following table:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 During 2008, several smaller carriers entered into either bankruptcy liquidation or reorganization proceedings. Carriers that reorganize through bankruptcy proceedings may be able to improve their cost structure making them more competitive with the rest of the industry. In addition, Delta Airlines completed its acquisition of Northwest Airlines Corporation in late 2008. This merger may enable the combined airline to improve its revenue and cost performance relative to peers and thus enhance its competitive position within the industry. It is also possible that other airline mergers or acquisitions may occur in the future.  

 Domestic pricing decisions are largely affected by the need to be competitive with other U.S. airlines. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company’s financial results because United often finds it necessary to match competitors’ fares to maintain passenger traffic. Attempts by United and other network airlines to raise fares often fail due to lack of competitive matching by LCCs; however, because of capacity constraint, the pressure of higher fuel prices and other industry conditions, some fare increases have occurred in recent years. Because of different cost structures, low ticket prices that may generate a profit for a LCC may have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. Also, additional revenue from fuel-related fare increases may not completely offset the Company’s increased cost of fuel.  

 International Competition. In United’s international networks, the Company competes not only with U.S. airlines, but also with foreign carriers. Competition on specified international routes is subject to varying degrees of governmental regulations. Recently the U.S. and European Union (“EU”) implemented an agreement to reduce restrictions on flight operations between the two entities. This agreement has increased competition on United’s transatlantic network from both U.S. and European airlines. In our Pacific operations, competition will be increasing as the governments of the U.S. and China permit more U.S. and Chinese airlines to fly new routes between the two countries, although the commencement of some new services to China has been recently postponed due to the weak global economy. See Industry Regulation, below. Part of United’s ability to successfully compete with non-U.S. carriers on international routes is its ability to generate traffic from and to the entire U.S. via its integrated domestic route network. Foreign carriers are currently prohibited by U.S. law from carrying local passengers between two points in the U.S. and United experiences comparable restrictions in many foreign countries. In addition, U.S. carriers are often constrained from carrying passengers to points beyond designated international gateway cities due to limitations in air service agreements or restrictions imposed unilaterally by foreign governments. To compensate for these structural limitations, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into alliances and marketing arrangements that allow these carriers to exchange traffic between each other’s flights and route networks (see Alliances, above, for further details).  

 Economic Conditions. Airlines are highly susceptible to negative financial impacts caused by major changes in the global economy that drive sudden severe swings in costs or revenues. During 2008, the combined forces of high fuel prices, extensive competition and a severe global recession drove numerous U.S. and international carriers to file for bankruptcy and, in some cases, to liquidate. While fuel costs have significantly fallen since reaching historic highs in the summer of 2008, overall demand for airline services has decreased, and may decrease further, and the depth of, and recovery from, the global recession continues to be uncertain. As discussed further in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the current  

 10   
 economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, negative impacts on passenger demand, revenues, the level of credit card sales activity and our cargo operations. In response to these economic conditions, United and other carriers in the industry implemented significant reductions in domestic and international capacity, which are expected to continue into 2009.  

 Insurance. United carries hull and liability insurance of a type customary in the air transportation industry, in amounts that the Company deems appropriate, covering passenger liability, public liability and damage to United’s aircraft and other physical property. United also maintains other types of insurance such as property, directors and officers, cargo, workers’ compensation, automobile and the like, with limits and deductibles that are standard within the industry. After the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Company’s insurance premiums increased significantly but have since been reduced reflecting the market’s perception of risk, as well as the Company’s ongoing capacity reductions. Additionally, after September 11, 2001, commercial insurers canceled United’s liability insurance for losses resulting from war and associated perils (terrorism, sabotage, hijacking and other similar events). The U.S. government subsequently agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines and has renewed this coverage on a periodic basis. The current war-risk policy is effective until March 31, 2009 and covers losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. The Secretary of Transportation may extend this coverage until May 31, 2009. If the U.S. government does not extend this coverage beyond March 31, 2009, obtaining comparable coverage from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. See “Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact the Company’s operations and financial results” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, below.  

 Industry Regulation  

 Domestic Regulation.  

 General. All carriers engaged in air transportation in the U.S. are subject to regulation by the DOT. Among its responsibilities, the DOT issues certificates of public convenience and necessity for domestic air transportation (no air carrier, unless exempted, may provide air transportation without a DOT certificate of public convenience and necessity), grants international route authorities, approves international code share agreements, regulates methods of competition and enforces certain consumer protection regulations, such as those dealing with advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.  

 Airlines also are regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”), a division of the DOT, primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance and other safety and technical matters. The FAA has authority to issue air carrier operating certificates and aircraft airworthiness certificates, prescribe maintenance procedures and regulate pilot and other employee training, among other responsibilities. From time to time, the FAA issues rules that require air carriers to take certain actions, such as the inspection or modification of aircraft and other equipment, that may cause the Company to incur substantial, unplanned expenses. The airline industry is also subject to various other federal laws and regulations. The U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) has jurisdiction over virtually all aspects of civil aviation security. See Legislation, below. The U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has jurisdiction over certain airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act (“RLA”). The Company is also subject to inquiries by the DOT, FAA and other U.S. and international regulatory bodies.  

 Airport Access. Access to landing and take-off rights, or “slots,” at several major U.S. airports and many foreign airports served by United are, or recently have been, subject to government regulation.  

 Domestic slot restrictions currently apply at Washington Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C., John F. Kennedy Airport and La Guardia Airport, both in New York, and Newark Airport in New Jersey. Slot restrictions at O’Hare ceased to apply as of November 2008. In 2008, the FAA issued new rules related to slots at the three New York City-area airports named above. These rules provide for  

 11   
 government confiscation of a portion of slots at each airport from incumbent airlines and establish a process whereby those slots will be auctioned over the course of five years. The confiscation and auction provisions are controversial and are currently the subject of litigation in federal appellate court, in which carriers serving those airports and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey claim that the FAA lacks legal authority to conduct slot auctions. On December 8, 2008, the federal appellate court in Washington D.C. stayed the auction pending a decision on the challenges to the auction process. It is difficult to predict the outcome of that litigation. If the slot auction provisions remain in effect, United will likely lose a small number of slots at each of the three New York City-area airports, however the exact number is not yet known. It is not yet clear what impact this might have on United’s operations at those airports.  

 Also in 2008, the DOT finalized amendments to its rates and charges policy that grant new authority to U.S. airports to implement forms of congestion pricing. The Air Transport Association has filed a legal challenge to the amended policy. We are currently unaware of any action by an airport to change pricing based on the new authority. It is difficult to predict whether any given airport might seek to implement this new authority and what impact on revenues or costs a change in airport charges arising from this policy might have on United.  

 At the end of 2008, the DOT proposed new regulations intended to enhance air passenger protection. If made final as proposed, the new regulations would create new areas of regulation and potentially permit passengers to sue air carriers should the carriers fail to meet certain service performance criteria.  

 Legislation. The airline industry is also subject to legislative activity that can have an impact on operations and costs. Specifically, the law that authorizes federal excise taxes and fees assessed on airline tickets expired in September 2007 was extended to February 28, 2008, and extended again until March 31, 2009. Congress is currently attempting to pass comprehensive reauthorization legislation to impose a new funding structure and make other changes to FAA operations. Past aviation reauthorization bills have affected a wide range of areas of interest to the industry, including air traffic control operations, capacity control issues, airline competition issues, aircraft and airport technology requirements, safety issues, taxes, fees and other funding sources. There also exists the possibility that Congress may pass other legislation that could increase labor and operating costs. Legislation is expected to focus on outsourced maintenance, Family and Medical Leave Act changes and other work rules. Climate change legislation, which would regulate green-house gas emissions, is also likely to be a significant area of legislative and regulatory focus and could adversely impact fuel costs. Customer service issues have remained active areas for both Congress and DOT regulators during 2008. In addition to DOT-proposed customer service regulations discussed above, legislation imposing more specific customer service requirements is likely to be approved by Congress in 2009, though what those requirements might be is unclear at this time. The DOT has also proceeded with regulatory changes in this area, including proposals regarding treatment of and payments to passengers involuntarily denied boarding, domestic baggage liability, proposals regarding flight delay reporting requirements and airline scheduling practices. Additionally, since September 11, 2001, aviation security has been and continues to be a subject of frequent legislative and regulatory action, requiring changes to the Company’s security processes and frequently increasing the cost of its security procedures.  

 International Regulation.  

 General. International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. In connection with United’s international services, the Company is regulated by both the U.S. government and the governments of the foreign countries United serves. In addition, the availability of international routes to U.S. carriers is regulated by aviation agreements between the U.S. and foreign governments, and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments.  

 12   
 Airport Access. Historically, access to foreign markets has been tightly controlled through bilateral agreements between the U.S. and each foreign country involved. These agreements regulate the markets served, the number of carriers allowed to serve each market and the frequency of carriers’ flights. Since the early 1990s, the U.S. has pursued a policy of “open skies” (meaning all carriers have access to the destination), under which the U.S. government has negotiated a number of bilateral agreements allowing unrestricted access between U.S. and foreign markets. Additionally, all of the airports that United serves in Europe and Asia maintain slot controls, and many of these are restrictive due to congestion at these airports. London Heathrow, Frankfurt and Tokyo Narita are among the most restrictive due to capacity limitations. United has significant operations at these locations.  

 United’s ability to serve some foreign markets and expand into certain others is limited by the absence altogether of aviation agreements between the U.S. government and the relevant governments. Shifts in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies can lead to the alteration or termination of air service agreements. Depending on the nature of any such change, the value of United’s international route authorities and slot rights may be materially enhanced or diminished.  

 The U.S./EU open skies agreement became effective in March 2008. This agreement replaced the bilateral arrangements between the U.S. government and the 27 EU member states. Based on the U.S. open skies model, it provides U.S. and EU carriers with expansive rights that have increased competition in transatlantic markets. For example, U.S. and EU carriers now have the right to operate between any point in the U.S. and the EU. The Agreement has no direct impact on airport slot rights nor does it provide for a reallocation of existing slots, including those at London Heathrow. London Heathrow currently remains subject to both slot and facility constraints.  

 The agreement provides United with additional commercial opportunities since it triggered the effectiveness of United’s anti-trust immunity with British carrier bmi, creating the potential for increased cooperation between the two carriers in the transatlantic market. The DOT had previously conditioned the carriers’ immunity upon the entry into force of an open skies agreement with the U.K. and the U.S./EU agreement satisfies this condition. Because of the diverse nature of potential impacts on United’s business, however, the overall future impact of the U.S./EU agreement on United’s business cannot be predicted with certainty.  

 Also in 2008, the EU adopted interpretive guidance and legislation that will impact the Company. The Commission has officially sanctioned secondary slot trading, a current practice among carriers that involves the sale, purchase or lease of slots. This action resolves disputes about the legality of slot exchanges at EU airports including Heathrow. In addition, the EU has adopted legislation to include aviation within the EU’s existing greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme effective in 2012. There are significant questions that remain as to the legality of applying the scheme to non-EU airlines and the U.S. and other governments are considering filing a legal challenge to the EU’s unilateral inclusion of non-EU carriers. While such a measure could significantly increase the costs of carriers operating in the EU, the precise cost to United is difficult to calculate with certainty due to a number of variables, and it is not clear whether the scheme will withstand legal challenge.  

 Environmental Regulation.  

 The airline industry is subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations concerning emissions to the air, discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. New regulations surrounding the emission of greenhouse gases (such as carbon dioxide) are being considered for promulgation both internationally and within the United States. United is carefully evaluating the potential impact of such proposed regulations. Other areas of developing regulations include the State of California rule-makings regarding air emissions from ground support equipment and a federal rule-making concerning the discharge of deicing fluid. The airline industry is also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require the Company to remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain objectives. Compliance with all environmental laws and regulations can  

 13   
 require significant expenditures. Under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, commonly known as “Superfund,” and similar environmental cleanup laws, generators of waste materials and owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. The Company also conducts voluntary environmental assessment and remediation actions. Environmental cleanup obligations can arise from, among other circumstances, the operation of aircraft fueling facilities and primarily involve airport sites. Future costs associated with these activities are currently not expected to have a material adverse affect on the Company’s business.  

 Employees  

 As of December 31, 2008, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately 50,000 active employees, of whom approximately 83% were represented by various U.S. labor organizations. The employee groups, number of employees and labor organization for each of United’s collective bargaining groups were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (“IAM”), Association of Flight Attendants—Communication Workers of America (“AFA”), Air Line Pilots Association (“ALPA”), International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“Teamsters”), International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers (“IFPTE”) and Professional Airline Flight Control Association (“PAFCA”).   

  (b)    During 2008, United’s mechanics and related employees elected to change their union representation from the Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association to the Teamsters. The Teamsters assumed the existing collective bargaining agreement between United and this employee group on April 1, 2008.    

 Collective bargaining agreements are negotiated under the RLA, which governs labor relations in the air transportation industry, and such agreements typically do not contain an expiration date. Instead, they specify an amendable date, upon which the contract is considered “open for amendment.” Contracts remain in effect while new agreements are negotiated. During the negotiation period, both the Company and the negotiating union are required to maintain the status quo. The Company plans to begin negotiations with its labor groups in 2009.  

 14   
  ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS.