ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Our primary source of market risk is the difference between the prices we sell our refined products for and the prices we pay for crude oil and other feedstocks. We also use derivative instruments to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil and refined products, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or to capture market opportunities. We have a risk committee whose responsibilities include reviewing a quarterly assessment of risks to the corporation and presenting a quarterly risk update to executive management for consideration.

Commodity Price Risks

Our earnings and cash flows from operations depend on the margin, relative to fixed and variable expenses (including the costs of crude oil and other feedstocks), at which we are able to sell our refined products. The prices of crude oil and refined products have fluctuated substantially in recent years and depend on many factors. These factors include the global supply and demand for crude oil and refined products. This demand is impacted by changes in the global economy, the level of foreign and domestic production of crude oil and refined products, geo-political conditions, the availability of imports of crude oil and refined products, the relative strength of the U.S. dollar, the marketing of alternative and competing fuels and the impact of government regulations. The prices we sell our refined products for are also affected by local factors such as local market conditions and the level of operations of other suppliers in our markets.

Prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. Generally, an increase or decrease in the price of crude oil results in a corresponding increase or decrease in the price of gasoline and other refined products. The timing, direction and the overall change in refined product prices versus crude oil prices will impact profit margins and could have a significant impact on our earnings and cash flows. Assuming all other factors remained constant, a $1 per barrel change in average gross refining margins, based on our rolling 12-month average throughput of 579 Mbpd, would change annualized pre-tax operating income by approximately $211 million.

We maintain inventories of crude oil, intermediate products and refined products, the values of which are subject to fluctuations in market prices. Our inventories of refinery feedstocks and refined products totaled 31 million barrels and 27 million barrels at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The average cost of our refinery feedstocks and refined products at December 31, 2011, was approximately $52 per barrel on a LIFO basis, compared to market prices of approximately $111 per barrel. If market prices decline to a level below the LIFO average cost of these inventories, we would be required to write down the carrying value of our inventory to market.

We use non-trading derivative instruments to manage exposure to commodity price risks associated with the purchase or sale of crude oil and finished products and to manage the risks from volatile prices associated with inventories above or below our target levels. Our strategy is to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flow, however, these derivative strategies may result in substantial derivatives gains and losses. The derivative instruments we typically use include options, exchange-traded futures and over-the-counter swaps and options, and physical commodity forward purchase and sale contracts. The instruments typically have durations of less than 12 months. Our hedging strategies are continuously monitored.

We mark-to-market our derivative instruments and recognize the changes in their fair value in our statements of consolidated operations. With the exception of a portion of our TPSA inventory, we elected not to designate derivative instruments as fair value hedges during 2011 or 2010. We use fair value hedge accounting for a portion of our TPSA inventory. 

61

Table of Contents 

Net earnings during 2011 and 2010 included net losses of $6 million and $29 million, respectively, on our derivative positions comprised of the following (dollars in millions and volumes in millions of barrels): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_______

Note: This table includes derivative positions associated with crude oil hedges held by TPSA.

Our open positions at December 31, 2011, will expire at various times primarily during 2012 and 2013. We prepared a sensitivity analysis to estimate our exposure to market risk associated with our derivative instruments. This analysis may differ from actual results. Based on our open net positions of 4 million barrels at December 31, 2011, a $1.00 per-barrel change in quoted market prices of our derivative instruments, assuming all other factors remain constant, could change the fair value of our derivative instruments and pre-tax operating income by approximately $4 million. 

Tesoro Panama Company S.A.

We formed TPSA to use our leased pipeline and tank facilities in Panama by enhancing strategic partnerships, developing economies of scale around freight and storage opportunities, providing discretionary crude oil trading, expanding global commercial relationships and evaluating opportunities to source crude from alternative supply markets. We may use our excess storage capacity in Panama to take advantage of contango markets when the price of crude oil is higher in the future than the current spot price. We use commodity derivatives to hedge crude oil held in connection with these arbitrage opportunities. The table above and the sensitivity analysis includes approximately 1.6 million barrels in net open derivative positions at December 31, 2011, entered into to manage exposure to commodity price risks associated with TPSA. 

We use fair value hedge accounting for certain derivative instruments acquired by TPSA and the crude oil inventories underlying these instruments. If we designate a hedging relationship as a fair value hedge, we record the changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability and any ineffective portion in cost of sales in our statements of consolidated operations.

Risk Management

The Company has a system of governance and management oversight and has put in place a number of controls to ensure procedures are properly followed and accountability is present at the appropriate levels. For example, the Company has put in place controls designed to:

•create and maintain a comprehensive risk management policy;

•provide for authorization by the appropriate levels of management;

•provide for segregation of duties;

•maintain an appropriate level of knowledge regarding the execution of and the accounting for derivative instruments; and

•have key performance indicators in place to adequately measure the performance of its hedging activities.

The Company believes the governance structure that it has in place is adequate given the size and sophistication of its hedging program.

Counterparty Credit Risk

We have exposure to concentrations of credit risk related to the ability of our counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations, and the potential non-performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. We have risk management policies in place, and continue to monitor closely the status of our counterparties. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition, and in certain circumstances, require prepayments, letters of credit or other collateral.

62

Table of Contents 

Foreign Currency Risk

We are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations on our purchases of Canadian crude oil. We enter into forward contracts of Canadian dollars to manage monthly exchange rate fluctuations. We had a $6 million loss related to these transactions for the year ended December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2011, we had a forward contract to purchase 64 million Canadian dollars that matured on January 25, 2012. Based on our open forward contract position, a $0.01 change in the Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rate would change operating income by less than $1 million.

Interest Rate Risk

We utilize fixed-rate long-term debt obligations and other borrowings, which are subject to market risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect the interest expense we incur on our variable-rate debt, and the fair value of our fixed-rate debt. These changes also affect the rates used to discount liabilities which could result in lower or higher accretion expense over time. The fair value of our debt was estimated primarily using quoted market prices. The carrying value and fair value of our debt at December 31, 2011 were approximately $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. Both the carrying value and fair value of our debt at December 31, 2010, were approximately $2.0 billion. We currently do not use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to interest rate risk, however we continue monitor the market and our exposure, and in the future, we may enter into these transactions to mitigate risk. We believe in the short-term we have acceptable interest rate risk and continue to monitor the risk on our long-term obligations.

63

Table of Contents 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA