PART I  

Item 1. BUSINESS  

Certain information of a non-historical nature contained in Items 1, 2, 3 and 7 of this Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements. Reference is made to “Risk Factors” in Item 1A and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Factors that May Affect Future Operating Results” in Item 7, for a discussion of certain factors that could cause our Company’s actual operating results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.  

General  

Patterson is a value-added distributor serving three major markets:  

   •    North American dental supply;  

   •    U.S. and U.K. veterinary supply; and  

   •    The worldwide rehabilitation and assistive products supply market.  

Patterson began distributing dental supplies in 1877. The modern history of the business dates to May 1985, when management and certain investors purchased the dental supply business of a subsidiary of The Beatrice Companies, Inc. Patterson became a publicly traded company in October 1992 and is a corporation organized under the laws of the state of Minnesota.  

We had historically reported one operating segment, dental supply. In July 2001, the veterinary supply assets of J.A. Webster, Inc. were purchased and became a reportable business segment. Then in September 2003, AbilityOne Products Corp. was acquired, creating a third business segment which serves the rehabilitation supply market.  

In June 2004, we changed our corporate name from Patterson Dental Company to Patterson Companies, Inc. (“Patterson” or the “Company”). Patterson retained its existing NASDAQ stock symbol – PDCO. The corporate name change was adopted to reflect Patterson’s expanded base of business in the veterinary and rehabilitation supply markets, as well as its traditional base of operations in the dental supply market. Patterson’s operating units include Patterson Dental, Patterson Veterinary and Patterson Medical.  

Our three reportable segments, dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply, are strategic business units that offer similar products and services to different customer bases. Each business is a market leader with a strong competitive position, serves a fragmented market that offers consolidation opportunities and offers relatively low-cost consumable supplies, making our value-added business proposition highly attractive to customers.  

On June 16, 2015, we completed the previously announced acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc., a leading production animal health distribution company in the United States, for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. Animal Health International generated sales and earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.5 billion and $68 million, respectively, during the 12 months ended March 2015. This acquisition will more than double the size of Patterson’s veterinary business. The combined unit will offer a range of products and services to customers in the U.S., Canada and the U.K. At the time of the signing of the acquisition agreement with Animal Health International, we also announced the potential sale of Patterson Medical. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the Animal Health International acquisition.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Dental Supply  

Overview  

As Patterson’s largest business, Patterson Dental is one of the two largest distributors of dental products in North America. Our dental business has operations in the United States and Canada. Patterson Dental, a full-service, value-added supplier to dentists, dental laboratories, institutions, and other healthcare professionals, provides consumable products (including x-ray film, restorative materials, hand instruments and sterilization products); basic and advanced technology dental equipment; practice management and clinical software; patient education systems; and office forms and stationery. Patterson Dental offers our customers a broad selection of dental products including more than 105,500 stock keeping units (“SKUs”) of which approximately 5,700 are private-label products sold under the Patterson brand. Patterson Dental also offers customers a full range of related services including dental equipment installation, maintenance and repair, dental office design and equipment financing. We market our dental products and services through more than 1,300 direct sales representatives, of which approximately 250 are equipment specialists.  

Patterson Dental has over 130 years of experience providing quality products and services to dental professionals. Net sales of this segment have increased from $165.8 million in fiscal 1986 to approximately $2.4 billion in fiscal 2015 and profitability has increased from an operating loss in fiscal 1986 to operating income of $249.6 million in fiscal 2015.  

We estimate the dental supply market we serve to be approximately $7 billion annually and that our share of this market is approximately 33%. The underlying structure of the dental supply market consists of a sizeable geographically dispersed number of fragmented dental practices and is attractive for our Company’s role as a value-added, full-service distributor. According to the American Dental Association, there are over 191,000 dentists practicing in the United States. According to the Canadian Dental Association, there are approximately 21,000 licensed dentists in Canada. The average general practitioner generated approximately $646,000 in annual revenue in 2013, while the average specialty practitioner produced about $857,000. We believe that most dentists use between 5% and 7% of their annual revenue to purchase consumable supplies used in the daily operations of their practice. This translates into between $32,000 and $45,000 of supplies purchased by the average practice each year. We believe the average dental practitioner purchases about 40% of their supplies from their top supplier.  

Total expenditures for dental services in the United States increased from $31 billion in 1990 to $105 billion in 2010. We believe that the demand for dental services, equipment and supplies will continue to be influenced by the following factors:  

   •    Demographics. The U.S. population grew from 235 million in 1980 to 320 million in 2014, and is expected to reach 335 million by 2020. The median age of the population is also increasing, and we believe that older dental patients spend more on a per capita basis for dental services.  

   •    Dental products and techniques. Technological developments in dental products continue to contribute to advances in dental techniques and procedures, including cosmetic dentistry and dental implants.  

   •    Demand for certain dental procedures. Demand is growing for preventive dentistry and specialty services such as periodontic (the treatment of gums), endodontic (root canals), orthodontic (braces), and other dental procedures that enable patients to keep their natural teeth longer and improve their appearance.  

   •    Increased dental office productivity. The number of dentists per capita in the U.S. is forecasted to decline over the next two decades. As a result, the number of patients per dental practice is expected to rise. For this reason, dentists are showing an increased willingness to invest in dental equipment and office infrastructure that can strengthen the productivity of their practices.  

   •    Demand for infection control products. Greater public awareness as well as regulations and guidelines instituted by OSHA, the American Dental Association and state regulatory authorities have resulted in  

4  

Table of Contents 

     increased use of infection control (asepsis) products such as protective clothing, gloves, facemasks, and sterilization equipment to prevent the spread of communicable diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and herpes.  

   •    Coverage by dental plans. An increasing number of dental services are being funded by private dental insurance. In 2009, over 55% of the U.S. population had some form of dental coverage.  

Strategy  

Our objective is to remain a leading national distributor of supplies, equipment and related services in the market while continuing to improve our profitability and enhance our value to customers. To achieve this objective, we have adopted a strategy of emphasizing our value-added, full-service capabilities, using technology to enhance customer service, continuing to improve our own operating efficiencies, and growing through internal expansion and acquisitions.  

Emphasizing Value-Added, Full-Service Capabilities. Patterson Dental is positioned to meet virtually all of the needs of dental practitioners by providing a full range of consumable supplies, equipment and software, and value-added services. We believe that our customers value full service and responsive delivery of quality supplies and equipment. Customers also increasingly expect suppliers to be knowledgeable about products and services, and generally, a superior sales representative can create a special relationship with the practitioner by providing an informational link to the overall industry. Our knowledgeable sales representatives assist customers in the selection and purchase of supplies and equipment. In addition, our high quality sales force allows us to offer broader product lines. Because most dental practices lack a significant degree of back office support, the convenience of our full-service capabilities enables dentists to spend more time with patients and, thus, generate additional revenues.  

We meet our customers’ requirements by delivering frequent, small quantity orders rapidly and reliably from our strategically located distribution centers. Equipment specialists, service technicians and technology advisors also support our value-added strategy. Equipment specialists offer consultation on office design, equipment requirements and financing. Our experienced service technicians perform equipment installation, maintenance and repair services, including services on products purchased from others. Technology advisors from our sales branches provide guidance on integrating technology solutions, including practice management and clinical software, digital radiography, custom hardware and networking into the dental practice.  

Using Technology to Enhance Customer Service. As part of Patterson Dental’s commitment to providing superior customer service, we offer our customers easy order placement. We have offered electronic ordering capability to our dental supply segment since 1987, when we first introduced Remote Order Entry (REMOSM). Over the years, Patterson Dental has continued to introduce new order entry systems designed to meet the varying needs of our customers. We believe that computerized order entry systems help establish relationships with new customers and increase loyalty among existing customers by permitting customers to place orders from their offices directly to Patterson Dental 24 hours a day, seven days a week.  

Today we offer three convenient ordering systems to the dental supply segment, eMAGINE®, PDXpress® and www.pattersondental.com, which we re-launched in fiscal 2012 to provide our customers with better search capabilities, easier access to their order history, customized purchase reports, and fingertip access to Patterson Advantage, the segment’s customer loyalty program. Customers, as well as our sales force, use these systems, although the predominant platform today is www.pattersondental.com with minimal usage of PDXpress. Over the years, the number of orders transmitted electronically has grown steadily to approximately 78% of our consumable dental product volume or $1.0 billion in fiscal year 2015. In addition to enhancing customer service by offering electronic order entry systems to our customers, these systems enable our sales representatives to spend more time with existing customers and to call on additional customers.  

The goal of Patterson Dental’s internet strategy is to distribute information and service related products over the internet to enhance customers’ practices and to increase sales force productivity. Our internet environment  

5  

Table of Contents 

 includes order entry, customer support for their digital systems and our proprietary products, customer-loyalty program reports and services, access to “Patterson Today” articles and manufacturers’ product information. Additionally, Patterson Dental utilizes a tool, InfoSource®, to provide real time customer and sales information to our sales force, managers and vendors via the internet.  

Our proprietary practice management and clinical software, EAGLESOFT®, is developed and maintained by our Patterson Technology Center (PTC). We believe the PTC differentiates Patterson Dental from our competition by positioning Patterson Dental as the only company providing a single-source solution for the high growth area of digital components. EAGLESOFT® has a current installation base of approximately 30,000 users. Among our many specialized capabilities, the PTC, in conjunction with specialists from the sales branch, provides system configuration, as well as the seamless integration of all digital operatory components with clinical software, including our EAGLESOFT® products. This integration creates an electronic patient database that combines the patient’s front office record, clinical x-ray, intra-oral camera images, CEREC® and other digital equipment records. Patterson Dental offers EAGLESOFT® practice management software at no cost to customers with a subscription to support services. The local sales branch, in conjunction with the PTC, networks the digital record system throughout the entire office, offers all required custom computer hardware for the system, and provides ongoing customer training. The PTC has a contact center that troubleshoots customer issues and arranges for local service when needed.  

Software and digital radiography customers also have access to the PTC’s support capabilities. The PTC provides support for Patterson’s proprietary products as well as select branded product, such as Sirona and Schick. In addition to troubleshooting problems through the PTC’s support center, customers can access various service capabilities offered by the PTC including electronic claims and statement processing and system back-up capabilities.  

Continuing to Improve Operating Efficiencies. Patterson Dental continues to implement programs designed to improve our operating efficiencies and allow for continued sales growth over time. These programs include a wide variety of initiatives from our continuing investment in management information systems to consolidation of distribution centers and sales branches. More recent initiatives include upgrading our order entry and order management systems.  

Patterson Dental has improved operating efficiencies by converting our communications architecture to faster, higher capacity data lines that combine voice and data transmissions. We have developed a new field management tool for our technical service operations, improving our ability to coordinate the actions of service technicians and enhancing customer service while reducing the overall cost of operations.  

An integral part of our shared services concept is the consolidation and leveraging of distribution centers between Patterson’s segments. As of April 2015, eight distribution centers are shared between two or all three of our operating units. In addition, we have established shared sales branch offices in several locations between multiple segments. Because of these and other efforts, we expect to continue to improve our operating expense leverage and efficiencies going forward.  

Growing Through Internal Expansion and Acquisitions. We intend to continue to grow by hiring established sales representatives, hiring and training skilled sales professionals as territory sales representatives, and acquiring other distributors in order to enter new, or more deeply penetrate existing, geographic markets and expand our customer base. We believe that Patterson Dental is well positioned to take advantage of expected continued consolidation in the dental distribution market. Over the past 25 years, Patterson has made a number of acquisitions, including the following:  

Dental Distribution Acquisitions  

   •    Since 1987, Patterson has acquired over 30 dental products distributors in the United States and Canada. These acquisitions have included the third largest dental dealer in the United States and the  

6  

Table of Contents 

     second largest dental dealer in Canada, as well as regional and local dental dealers throughout North America, including Holt Dental Supply in fiscal 2015. As a result of these acquisitions, along with internal expansion, we are now one of the two largest full service dental products distributors in both the United States and Canada.  

Printed Office Products Acquisitions  

   •    In 1996, we acquired the Colwell Systems division of Deluxe Corporation. Colwell Systems, now known as Patterson Office Supplies, produces and sells a variety of printed office products used in medical, dental and veterinary offices, as well as other clinical based settings.  

Software Acquisitions  

   •    In 1997, Patterson Dental acquired EagleSoft, Inc., a developer and marketer of Windows®-based practice management and clinical software for dental offices. EagleSoft’s operations evolved to become the Patterson Technology Center, which is located in Effingham, Illinois. In 2001, Patterson purchased Modern Practice Technologies, a company that provided custom computing solutions to the dental industry. This acquisition helped us to position ourselves to provide all of the custom hardware and networking required for interfacing the entire dental office.  

   •    In 2004, Patterson Dental acquired CAESY Education Systems, Inc., the leading provider of electronic patient education services to dental practices in North America. Headquartered in Vancouver, Washington, CAESY provides dental practices with a range of communications media that educate patients about professional dental care, procedures and treatment alternatives with the goal of facilitating patient decisions about dental services and increasing the productivity of the dental professional. Educational materials are communicated through CD/DVD media, software-as-a-service, computer programs and the dentist’s web site. These materials can be used within the dental waiting room, at chair side and in the patient’s home.  

   •    In 2008, Patterson Dental acquired Dolphin Imaging Systems, LLC and Dolphin Practice Management, LLC, the leading providers of 3D imaging and practice management software for specialized dental practitioners, including orthodontists, oral maxillofacial surgeons and dental radiologists. Dolphin’s imaging software maximizes the benefit of cone beam and other digital photography and radiography systems. We believe there are no major competitors for Dolphin’s full range of products.  

Products and Services  

The following table sets forth the percentage of total sales by the principal categories of products and services offered to our dental segment customers:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Consists of other value-added products and services including technical service and software maintenance.  

Consumable and Printed Products  

Dental Supplies. We offer a broad product line of consumable dental supplies such as x-ray film and solutions; impression materials; restorative materials (composites and alloys); high and low-speed hand pieces;  

7  

Table of Contents 

 hand instruments; sterilization products; anesthetics; infection control products such as protective clothing, gloves and facemasks; paper, cotton and other disposable products; toothbrushes and a full line of dental accessories including hand instruments, burs, and diamonds. In addition to representing a wide array of branded products from numerous manufacturers, we also market our own private label line of dental supplies including anesthetics, instruments, preventive and restorative products, and cotton and paper products. Our private label line complements the branded products for customers seeking a lower cost alternative on products that have become a commodity in the market. Compared to most name brand supplies, the private label line provides lower prices for our customers and higher gross margins for Patterson.  

Printed Office Products. Patterson Dental, through Patterson Office Supplies, provides a variety of printed office products, office filing supplies, and practice management systems to office-based healthcare providers including dental, veterinary and medical offices. Products include custom printed products, insurance and billing forms, stationery, envelopes, business cards, labels, file folders, appointment books and other stock office supply products.  

These office products are sold through our sales force as well as direct mail catalogs distributed to over 100,000 customers several times per year. A staff of telemarketing personnel located in Champaign, Illinois supports both channels, receiving orders by telephone, through the mail or electronically from the dental, veterinary and medical distribution order processing system.  

Equipment and Software  

Dental Equipment. Patterson Dental is the largest supplier of dental equipment in the U.S. and Canada. We offer a wide range of dental equipment products including radiography equipment, dental chairs, dental hand piece control units, diagnostic equipment, sterilizers, dental lights and compressors. We also distribute newer technology equipment that provides our customers with tools to improve productivity and patient satisfaction. Examples of such innovative and higher productivity products include the CEREC® family of products, a chair-side restoration system; digital imaging products (including intra-oral, panoramic and 3-D or cone beam x-rays); and inter-oral cameras.  

Software. Patterson Dental develops and markets our own proprietary lines (EagleSoft® and Dolphin) of practice management and clinical software for dental professionals, including software for scheduling, billing, charting and capture/storage/retrieval of digital images. Patterson Dental also sells software products developed by third parties, including SIDEXIS® by Sirona and Dimax2 by Planmeca. These value-added products are designed to help achieve office productivity improvements, which translate into higher profitability for the customer.  

Hardware. We offer our dental customers custom hardware and networking solutions required for integrating the entire dental office, which marks another step in our overall strategy of providing customers with the convenience and cost-effectiveness of a virtually complete range of products and value-added services.  

Patient Education Services. The CAESY® education systems line of products, now available as software-as-a-service in addition to DVD format, offers patient education products and services. These communication tools are designed to educate patients in an efficient, cost-effective manner.  

Other  

Software Services. Patterson offers a variety of services to complement our software products, such as service agreements, software training, back-up services, electronic claims processing and billing statement processing. These services provide value to customers by allowing them to keep their software products current or receive payments more rapidly while obtaining greater productivity.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Equipment Installation, Repair and Maintenance. To keep their practices running efficiently, dentists require reliable performance from their equipment. All major equipment sold by Patterson includes installation and our 90-day labor warranty at no additional charge. Patterson also provides complete repair and maintenance services for all dental equipment, whether or not purchased from Patterson, including our 24-hour hand piece repair service. In addition to service technicians, who provide installation and repair services on basic dental equipment, we have also invested in personnel who specialize in installing and troubleshooting issues with technology solutions such as practice management software, digital imaging products, CAD/CAM, hardware and networking. The goal of this group, which is comprised of both local service technicians and the staff at the PTC, is to assist customers in integrating newer technology into their dental practices. The PTC helps our customers minimize costly downtime by offering a single point of contact for post-sale technology related issues.  

Dental Office Design. Patterson provides dental office layout and design services using a computer-aided design (CAD) program. Equipment specialists can create original or revise existing dental office designs in a fraction of the time required to produce conventional drawings. Customers purchasing major equipment items receive dental office design services at no additional charge.  

Equipment Financing. Patterson Dental provides a variety of options to fulfill our customers’ financing needs. For qualified purchasers of equipment, we will arrange customer financing through Patterson or a third party. For non-equipment related needs, such as for working capital or real estate, customers are also referred to a third party. These alternatives allow us to offer our customers convenience while still meeting their diverse financing needs. In fiscal 2015, we originated approximately $379.6 million of equipment finance contracts in the United States. Patterson Dental, or our third party vendor, financed approximately 47% of the equipment purchased by our customers during fiscal 2015.  

Since 1998, Patterson Dental has maintained one or more finance referral agreements with outside finance companies to provide a more extensive selection of finance opportunities to our customers. This might include financing for practice transition transactions, working capital, leasing, real estate and long-term capital. Wells Fargo Practice Finance, a division of Wells Fargo Bank N.A., provides this service currently. Patterson receives referral fees under this agreement, and Wells Fargo extends credit and services the accounts.  

To fund the financing that is originated by us, Patterson has created a special purpose entity (“SPE”), PDC Funding Company, LLC, a wholly-owned and fully consolidated subsidiary, and entered into a Receivables Purchase Agreement in order to participate in a commercial paper conduit. We transfer finance contracts we originate to the SPE. In turn, the SPE sells the contracts to the commercial paper conduit. As of April 25, 2015, the maximum outstanding capacity of this arrangement at any one time is $500 million.  

A second SPE, PDC Funding Company II, LLC, sells contracts through a Contract Purchase Agreement to a bank. This agreement operates similarly to the Receivables Purchase Agreement described above, except that the capacity is $100 million.  

The SPEs do not issue debt. There is no recourse to Patterson for contracts purchased by either the commercial paper conduit or the bank, but there is a deferred purchase price equal to approximately 13% of the principal of these contracts. Patterson services the customer contracts under both of these arrangements in exchange for a fee that approximates our cost for providing the service.  

Sales and Marketing  

During fiscal 2015, Patterson Dental sold products or services to approximately 120,000 customers in the U.S. and Canada who made one or more purchases during the year. Patterson Dental’s customers include dentists, laboratories, institutions and other healthcare professionals. No single customer accounted for more than 3% of sales during fiscal 2015, and Patterson Dental is not dependent on any single customer or geographic group of customers. Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and improve customer relationships through personal interaction with our sales representatives and frequent direct marketing contact, which underscores our value-added approach.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Patterson Dental has over 80 local offices throughout the U.S. and Canada so that we can provide a presence in the market and decision making near the customer. These offices, or sales branches, are staffed with a complete complement of Patterson Dental capabilities, including sales, customer service and technical service personnel, as well as a local manager who has broad decision making authority with regard to customer related transactions and issues.  

A primary component of Patterson Dental’s value-added approach is our sales force. Due to the fragmented nature of the dental supply market, we believe that a large sales force is necessary to reach potential customers and to provide full service. Sales representatives provide an informational link to the overall industry; assist practitioners in selecting and purchasing products and help customers efficiently manage their supply inventories. Each sales representative works within an assigned sales territory under the supervision of a location (branch) manager. Sales representatives are all Patterson employees and are generally compensated on a commission basis, with some, less experienced, representatives receiving a base salary and commission.  

To assist our sales representatives, Patterson Dental publishes a variety of catalogs and fliers containing product and service information. Dental customers receive a full-line product catalog containing approximately 37,000 inventoried items. The catalog includes pictures of products, detailed descriptions and specifications of products and is used by practitioners as a reference source. Selected consumable supplies, new products, specially priced items and high demand items such as infection control products, are promoted through merchandise fliers printed and distributed bi-monthly. In addition, dental equipment sold by Patterson is featured in our tri-yearly publication, Patterson Today, which also includes articles on dental office design, trends in dental practice, products and services offered by Patterson Dental and information on equipment maintenance.  

To enhance the total value we bring to our customers, Patterson Dental offers a value-added benefit program for our preferred customers. The PATTERSON ADVANTAGESM program enables members to earn “Advantage Dollars” which can be applied toward future purchases of equipment and technology products. Patterson Advantage also entitles our best customers to priority technical services, automated supply management summary reports, educational materials and a variety of exclusive discount offers.  

Distribution  

Patterson Dental believes that responsive delivery of quality supplies and equipment is key to customer satisfaction. We ship dental consumable supplies from eight strategically located distribution centers in the U.S. and two in Canada. Orders for consumable dental supplies can be placed by telephone or electronically 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Printed office products are shipped from our manufacturing and distribution facility in central Illinois.  

All orders are routed through our centralized computer ordering, shipping and inventory management systems, which are linked to each of our strategically located distribution centers. If an item is not available in the distribution center nearest to the customer, the computer system automatically directs fulfillment of the item from another center. Rapid and accurate order fulfillment is another principal component of our value-added approach. We estimate that 98% of Patterson Dental’s consumable goods orders are shipped to the customer on time, which is generally within 24 hours.  

In order to assure the availability of Patterson Dental’s broad product lines for prompt delivery to customers, we must maintain sufficient inventories at our distribution centers. Purchasing of consumables and standard equipment is centralized, and our purchasing department uses a real-time perpetual inventory system to manage inventory levels. Our inventory consists mostly of consumable supply items. By utilizing computerized inventory management and ordering systems, we are able to accurately predict inventory turns in order to minimize inventory levels for each item.  

Patterson Dental’s more than 80 dental sales offices are generally configured with display areas where the latest dental equipment can be demonstrated. Dental equipment is generally custom ordered and is staged at our sales branches before delivery to dental offices for installation.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Sources of Supply  

Effective purchasing is a key strategy Patterson Dental has adopted in order to achieve our objective of continuing to improve profitability. Utilizing electronic data interchange allows us to improve efficiencies and reduce administrative costs.  

Patterson Dental obtains products from more than 800 vendors. In June 2012 we entered into an exclusive distribution agreement with Sirona Dental Systems, Inc., the manufacturer of the CEREC® dental restorative systems and Schick® digital x-rays, in addition to sophisticated panoramic and cone beam radiography products. We served as the only national dealer for A-dec equipment, including chairs, units and cabinetry, for substantially all of fiscal 2015. A-dec is the largest manufacturer of dental equipment in the U.S.  

While Patterson Dental makes purchases from many suppliers, and there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, the concentration of business with key suppliers is considerable. Our top ten supply vendors accounted for approximately 61% and 60% of the cost of dental products sold in fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014. Of these ten, the top two vendors accounted for 18% and 8% for fiscal 2015 and 17% and 8% for fiscal 2014 cost of sales, respectively.  

Competition  

The highly competitive U.S. dental products distribution industry consists principally of national, regional and local full-service and mail-order companies. The dental supply market is extremely fragmented. In addition to Patterson Dental and one other national, full-service firm, Henry Schein Dental, a unit of Henry Schein, Inc., there are at least 15 full-service distributors that operate on a regional level, and hundreds of small local distributors. Also, some manufacturers sell directly to end users.  

We approach our markets by emphasizing and delivering a value-added model to the practitioner. To differentiate ourselves from our competition, we deploy a strategy of premium customer service with multiple value-added components, a highly qualified and motivated sales force, highly-trained and experienced service technicians, an extensive breadth and mix of products and services, technology solutions allowing customers to easily access our inventory, accurate and timely delivery of product, strategic location of sales offices and distribution centers, and competitive pricing.  

Patterson Dental also experiences competition in Canada in the dental supply market. The principal competitor is a national, full-service dental distributor, Henry Schein Dental, a unit of Henry Schein, Inc. We believe we compete in Canada on essentially the same basis as in the United States.  

Veterinary Supply  

Overview  

Patterson Veterinary is a leading distributor of veterinary supplies primarily to companion-pet (dogs, cats and other common household pets), equine and large animal veterinarians and veterinary clinics, public and private institutions, and shelters across the United States and in the United Kingdom (U.K.) with the purchase of National Veterinary Services Limited (NVS) in fiscal 2014. Patterson Veterinary, including NVS, has developed a strong brand identity as a value-added, full-service distributor with a comprehensive offering of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, prescription and non-prescription diets, nutritionals, consumable supplies, equipment, and software. Patterson Veterinary’s product offering, totaling more than 56,000 items, is sold by approximately 230 field sales representatives.  

Net sales by Patterson Veterinary in fiscal 2015 were $1.5 billion and operating income totaled $56.6 million. In addition to our core business of distributing veterinary products, Patterson Veterinary’s U.S. operation has a significant agency commission business with several pharmaceutical manufacturers. Under the agency  

11  

Table of Contents 

 relationships, Patterson Veterinary receives orders for products from customers, transmits these orders to vendors who then pick, pack, and ship the products. These vendors then invoice and collect payment from our customers. Patterson Veterinary receives a commission payment for soliciting the order and for providing other customer service activities. The agency commissions that Patterson Veterinary earns range from 2% to 7%, a portion of which is shared with the field sales and customer service representatives. Patterson Veterinary’s agency commissions accounted for less than 1% of our net sales in fiscal 2015.  

U.S. Market  

We estimate the market for pharmaceuticals and supplies sold to companion animal and equine veterinarians through distribution is approximately $3.4 billion on an annual basis. Based upon this estimated market size, we believe our share of this market is approximately 21%. Similar to the dental supply market, the veterinary supply market is fragmented and geographically diverse. As of December 31, 2014, according to the American Veterinary Medical Association, or AVMA, there were more than 65,000 veterinarians in private practice nationwide specializing in small animals, predominately companion pets. The average private veterinary practice generates approximately $1,000,000 of annual revenue. These practices purchase between $130,000 and $150,000 of supplies each year, and similar to the dental practitioner, tend not to maintain a large supply of inventory on hand. The typical veterinary practice purchases approximately 80% of its supplies from its top two suppliers. The average purchase of consumables by the veterinary practice is noticeably higher than that of the dental practitioner due predominately to pharmaceutical products, which veterinarians both administer and dispense.  

Historically, the demand for veterinary services in the U.S. has grown significantly faster than growth in the overall economy. More recently, the market growth has slowed as a result of a decrease in consumer spending. However, we anticipate increasing demand for veterinary services due to the following favorable factors:  

   •    Number of households with companion animals. The number of households with companion animals is steadily expanding which increases the demand for veterinary services. According to the AVMA 2012 U.S. Pet Ownership & Demographics Sourcebook, the percentages of U.S. households owning dogs, cats or horses are 36.5%, 30.4%, and 1.5%, respectively.  

   •    Veterinary expenditures per household. The amount pet owners are willing to spend caring for their pets is increasing substantially. The American Pet Products Association estimates that pet owners will spend $60.5 billion in 2015 to care for the American pet population, a significant increase compared to $41.2 billion spent in 2007.  

   •    Veterinary products and techniques. Many new therapeutic and preventive products are being developed for the companion animal market. Technological developments have resulted in new innovative veterinary products and advances in veterinary services.  

U.K. Market  

We estimate the U.K. market for pharmaceuticals and supplies sold to companion, equine and large animal veterinarians through distribution is approximately £1.0 billion. Based upon this estimated market size, we believe our share of this market overall is approximately 42%. The fastest growing segment is companion animal, which represents approximately 66% of the market, with large animal and equine segments representing 25% and 9%, respectively. There are approximately 20,000 veterinarians in the U.K. practicing in veterinary outlets. Customers in this market are classified as independent practices, members of buying groups, corporations, and charities. Similar to the U.S. markets, independent practices are typically small, privately-held businesses that place at least one order per week to avoid storing and managing large volumes of supplies. However, there has been a shift in the U.K. market towards consolidation of veterinary practices either through outright purchases by corporations or by joint venture whereby the practitioner continues to work as a salaried member of the practice.  

12  

Table of Contents 

U.S. Operations  

Strategy  

Patterson Veterinary’s objective is to build a leading national position in the companion animal veterinary market through internal expansion and acquisitions, while continuing to improve our profitability and enhance our value to customers. Our key strategies and priorities for accomplishing these objectives include growing through internal expansion and acquisitions, emphasizing our value-added full-service capabilities, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and expanding our service offerings.  

Growing Through Internal Expansion and Acquisitions. We intend to continue to grow by opening additional sales offices, hiring established sales representatives, hiring and training skilled sales professionals as territory sales representatives, and acquiring other distributors in order to enter new, or more deeply penetrate existing, geographic markets and expand our customer base. We believe that Patterson Veterinary is well positioned to take advantage of expected continued consolidation in the veterinary distribution market. Patterson Veterinary has made a number of acquisitions, including the following:  

Veterinary Distribution Acquisitions  

   •    Since 2004, Patterson Veterinary has acquired several veterinary distributors in the United States. These acquisitions include two regional distributors, ProVet, which was the companion animal veterinary supply division of Lextron, Inc., and Columbus Serum Company, as well as Milburn Distributions, Inc., the largest distributor specializing in the U.S. equine veterinary supply market, and selected local and specialty distributors. In 2011, Patterson Veterinary acquired American Veterinary Supply Corporation, a full service distributor on Long Island, New York with annualized sales of approximately $25 million that served approximately 2,000 veterinary practices and hospitals in the New York metropolitan area.  

   •    In 2010, Patterson Veterinary made a minority equity investment in Strategic Pharmaceutical Solutions, Inc. dba VetSource, a leading North American provider of integrated specialty pharmacy distribution, including home delivery capabilities.  

   •    In December 2012, Patterson Veterinary acquired the assets of Universal Vaporizer Support (UVS) based in Foster City, California with annual sales of approximately $3 million. UVS provides cleaning and calibration services for a variety of anesthetic vaporizers used in veterinary medicine.  

Software Acquisitions  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    In 2011, Patterson Veterinary acquired ePet Records, LLC. Rebranded as ePETHEALTH™, this innovative communication platform provides practitioners with a secure internet portal for their clients to access 24/7 for their pets’ medical information plus descriptive, easy-to-understand resources and educational materials with 3D graphics. Through ePETHEALTH™, veterinarians can also send their clients automated electronic health service and appointment reminders, eNewsletters and health education articles and videos.  

Emphasizing Value-Added, Full-Service Capabilities. Patterson Veterinary believes that veterinary customers value full service and responsive delivery of product, in addition to competitive prices. Customers also  

13  

Table of Contents 

 increasingly expect suppliers to be knowledgeable about products and services, and, generally, a superior sales representative can create a special relationship with the practitioner by providing an informational link to the overall industry. Patterson Veterinary’s knowledgeable sales representatives assist customers in the selection and purchasing of supplies. Most veterinarians are independent, or small unit based, practitioners who are unable to store and manage large volumes of supplies in their offices. We meet our customer’s requirements by delivering frequent, small quantity orders rapidly and reliably from strategically located distribution centers.  

Equipment specialists, technology specialists and service technicians also support our value-added strategy. Equipment specialists offer consultation on office design, equipment requirements and financing. Technology specialists provide guidance on integrating technology solutions including practice management software, client education and communication software, and our home delivery service offering. Our experienced service technicians perform equipment installation, maintenance and repair services, including service on products or equipment not purchased through Patterson Veterinary.  

Continuing to Improve Operating Efficiencies. Patterson Veterinary continues to implement programs designed to improve our operating efficiencies and allow for continued sales growth over time. These programs include a wide variety of initiatives from our continuing investment in management information systems to consolidation of distribution centers and sales branches.  

In January 2013, Patterson Veterinary launched its’ newly designed website www.pattersonvet.com with upgraded features from the depth of information available to the ease and efficiency of navigating the site as well as enhanced search capabilities including descriptions with multiple images and product details to assist with product research and purchasing decisions. In fiscal 2015, approximately 38% of the consumable sales were ordered through both our website and eMagine electronic ordering platform.  

In 2011, Patterson Veterinary implemented a centralized return processing center located in Columbus, Ohio. This initiative has allowed us to more efficiently handle customer product returns, improve the customer’s experience as well as meet vendor return requirements. As a result of implementing the centralized return processing center, approximately 87% of returns are credited back to the customer within 24 hours of receipt. Centralizing this process has also lead to both operational efficiencies as well as a reduction in shipping costs associated with product returns.  

Expanding our Services. Patterson Veterinary continuously seeks to broaden our service offerings to maximize sales opportunities within our existing customer base while strengthening and enhancing practice economics and pet health.  

Technical Service. Patterson Veterinary offers onsite preventative maintenance and repair services in most major markets across the United States covering a wide range of equipment. Our experienced service technicians perform equipment installation, maintenance and repair services including services on products not purchased through Patterson Veterinary.  

ePetHealth. A leading suite of communication and educational tools designed to help the clinic increase compliance and pet-owner loyalty to the practice through clinic eMarketing tools, health service reminders, online medical records, drug home delivery and award winning DIA videos and content.  

DIA. A premier client education software for companion animal and equine practices, provides over 3,000 illustrations, animations, clinical images, radiographs and other diagnostic images that cover a wide range of medical conditions. Additionally, DIA Reception provides high definition footage and animations to better explain common pet health issues and conditions to pet owners.  

VetSource. A leading professional pharmacy providing home delivery service of medications to pet owners, which improves client compliance, retains drug revenues within the veterinary practice, and optimizes inventory investments.  

14  

Table of Contents 

Patterson Veterinary University. Patterson Veterinary University (PVU) offers exclusive business courses for veterinarians, hospital managers, technicians, receptionists, and veterinary students. Veterinary students can take advantage of the two credit course Entrepreneurship for Veterinarians during their senior year in veterinary school. PVU – Management offers four in-depth courses on human resources, inventory management, marketing and finance. The PVU – Communication and Customer Service course for receptionists and technicians helps create a unified health care team within a veterinary hospital. The newest course PVU – Executive: Next Level Practice Ownership is designed to help guide veterinary practice owners from where they are today to where they want to be in the future by providing practice owners information that helps expand their current hospital performance and fulfill their practice dreams.  

Anesthesia Vaporizer Service. Patient safety is top priority with manufacturer-trained service technicians who provide fast, reliable service, repair and calibration for a variety of anesthetic vaporizers used in veterinary medicine.  

National Handpiece Repair. In February 2012, we launched Patterson’s Veterinary dental handpiece repair initiative utilizing Patterson Dental’s National Repair Center. Practitioners can now have both their high-speed and slow-speed handpieces cleaned, repaired, and returned within 24 hours from receipt.  

Anesthesia Technical Support Hotline. Using our dedicated hotline, with one phone call customers can obtain answers and detail support for their anesthesia and monitoring equipment.  

Products and Services  

The following table sets forth the percentage of total sales by the principal categories of products and services offered by our U.S. operations to veterinary segment customers:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consumable and Printed Products  

Patterson Veterinary offers our customers a broad selection of veterinary supply products including pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, veterinary pet foods, nutritional products and consumable supplies. Our pharmaceutical products typically include anesthetics, analgesics, antibiotics, and ophthalmics. Our biological products are primarily comprised of vaccines and injectibles. Our parasiticides are used for control of external parasites (fleas, ticks, flies, mosquitoes) and internal parasites. Our diagnostics product category includes consumable in-clinic tests for detecting heartworm, lyme disease, feline leukemia and parvovirus, as well as consumable products for measuring blood chemistry, electrolyte balance and cell counts. Veterinary pet foods consist of both specialty diets and premium pet foods. Nutritional products are comprised of dietary supplements, vitamins, dental chews and specialty treats. Consumable supplies include lab supplies, various types and sizes of paper goods, needles and syringes, instruments, gauze and wound dressings, sutures, latex gloves, orthopedic and casting products. Many of the office supply products sold by Patterson Office Supplies are also offered to the veterinary supply market.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Equipment and Software  

Veterinary Equipment. Patterson Veterinary sells equipment for hospital, laboratory and general surgical use within the veterinary practice. We also offer innovative, quality equipment that differentiates Patterson Veterinary from the competition including anesthesia machines, surgical monitors, diagnostic equipment, ultrasound, dental power units, cages, lights, digital x-ray systems and x-ray machines.  

Practice Management Software. Patterson Veterinary develops and markets our own proprietary line of practice management software, INTRAVET®, for veterinary professionals, including software for scheduling, billing, charting and capture/storage/retrieval of digital images.  

Client Education Software. Patterson Veterinary also develops and markets our own proprietary client education software, DIA®, for veterinary professionals. DIA encompasses over 3,000 3D clinical animations and images, enabling veterinarians to more fully explain and illustrate a pet’s diagnosis and treatment recommendations to their clients.  

Client Communication Portal. Patterson Veterinary develops and markets our own innovative web-based client communication platform, ePetHealth, providing practitioners a suite of client offerings such as online medical records, eMarketing tools, client education resources, and a home delivery portal.  

Other  

Other products and services include commissions earned on agency sales, equipment repair revenues, software maintenance contract revenue, PVU revenue and freight recovery on shipments to customers.  

Sales, Marketing and Distribution  

During fiscal 2015, Patterson Veterinary sold products or services to over 21,000 customers in the U.S. who made one or more purchases during the year. Our customers include veterinarians, laboratories, institutions and other animal health professionals. No single customer accounted for more than 1% of sales during fiscal 2015, and Patterson Veterinary is not dependent on any single customer or geographic group of customers. Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and improve customer relationships through personal interaction with our field sales and customer service representatives and frequent direct marketing contact, which underscores our value-added approach.  

Patterson Veterinary currently has 19 local offices throughout the U.S. so that we can provide a presence in the market and decision making near the customer. These offices, or branches, are staffed with a complete complement of Patterson Veterinary’s capabilities, including sales, customer service and technical service personnel, as well as a local manager who has broad decision making authority with regard to customer related transactions and issues.  

Field Sales Representatives. A primary component of Patterson Veterinary’s value-added approach is our sales force. Due to the fragmented nature of the veterinary supply market, we believe that a large sales force is necessary to reach potential customers and to provide full service. Sales representatives provide an informational link to the overall industry; assist practitioners in selecting and purchasing products and help customers efficiently manage their supply inventories. Each sales representative works within an assigned sales territory under the supervision of a location (branch) manager. Sales representatives are all Patterson Veterinary employees and are generally compensated on a commission basis, with some, less experienced, representatives receiving a base salary and commission.  

Customer Service Representatives. We support our field sales representatives and direct marketing efforts with customer service representatives in eight call centers covering the United States. As of April 25, 2015, we  

16  

Table of Contents 

 had 115 customer service representatives. Customer service representatives work in tandem with our field sales representatives, providing a dual coverage approach for individual customers. In addition to processing orders, customer service representatives are responsible for assisting customers with ordering, informing customers of monthly promotions, and responding to general inquiries. Customer service representatives utilize our customized order entry system to process customer orders, access pricing, determine product availability, provide promotional information about products, research customer preferences, and review order histories.  

Direct Marketing. To assist our sales representatives, Patterson Veterinary publishes a catalog containing product and service information. Patterson Veterinary customers receive a full-line product catalog containing over 14,500 inventoried items. The catalog includes pictures of products, detailed descriptions and specifications of products and is used by practitioners as a reference source. We also promote selected consumable products, our value-added program and services, new products, specially priced items and high demand items through our monthly magazine, Insight. Additional direct marketing tools that we utilize include equipment catalogs, customer loyalty programs, specific product and vendor programs, flyers, faxes, eNewsletters, social media, and other promotional materials. In order to extend our customer reach and enhance customer interaction, we also participate in national, regional and local trade shows.  

E-Commerce Platform. Patterson Veterinary’s website allows customers the ability to order items 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The website also incorporates value-added functions that permit customers to check their invoice, payment and credit history, make a payment, build a “shopping list” of frequently purchased items and track their order status.  

Distribution. Patterson Veterinary believes that responsive delivery of quality supplies and equipment is key to customer satisfaction. We ship veterinary consumable supplies from 11 strategically located distribution centers in the United States. Orders for veterinary consumable supplies can be placed through our field sales force, customer service representatives or electronically 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Printed office products are shipped from Patterson’s manufacturing and distribution facility in central Illinois.  

All orders are routed through our centralized computer ordering, shipping and inventory management systems, which are linked to each of our strategically located distribution centers. If an item is not available in the distribution center nearest to the customer, the computer system automatically directs fulfillment of the item from another center. Rapid and accurate order fulfillment is another principal component of our value-added approach. We estimate that 97% of Patterson Veterinary’s consumable orders are received by the customer the next business day.  

In order to assure the availability of Patterson Veterinary’s broad product lines for prompt delivery to customers, we must maintain sufficient inventories at our distribution centers. Purchasing of consumables and standard equipment is centralized, and our purchasing department uses a real-time perpetual inventory system to manage inventory levels. Our inventory consists mostly of consumable supply items and pharmaceutical products. By utilizing computerized inventory management and ordering systems, we are able to accurately predict inventory turns in order to minimize inventory levels for each item.  

Sources of Supply  

Patterson Veterinary U.S. operations obtain products from nearly 650 vendors. While Patterson Veterinary makes purchases from many vendors and there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products, the concentration of business with key vendors is considerable. In fiscal 2015 and 2014, Patterson Veterinary’s top 10 veterinary supply manufacturers comprised 65% and 68%, and the single largest supplier comprised 14% and 17%, of the total cost of veterinary supply sales, respectively.  

There are two major types of arrangements that account for the flow of transactions between us and our customers. Traditional “buy/sell” transactions, which account for the vast majority of our business, involve direct  

17  

Table of Contents 

 purchases of products by us from vendors, which we manage and store in our distribution centers. A customer then places an order with us, and the orders are then picked, packed, shipped and billed by us to our customer.  

We also process orders from our customers under “agency agreements” with some of our vendors, primarily for certain seasonal pharmaceutical products. Under this model, when we receive orders for products from the customer, we transmit the order to the vendor who then picks, packs, and ships the products. The vendor then invoices and collects payment from our customer. We receive a commission payment for soliciting the order and for providing other customer service activities.  

Competition  

The distribution and manufacture of veterinary products in the U.S. is highly competitive. In addition to two other national, full-service firms, Henry Schein Animal Health, Inc. and MWI Veterinary Supply, Inc. (acquired by AmerisourceBergen in February 2015), Patterson Veterinary competes with several full-service distributors that operate on a regional level and numerous smaller local and specialty distributors, including Idexx Laboratories, and to lesser extent, mail order distributors or buying groups. Patterson Veterinary also competes directly with pharmaceutical companies who sell certain products directly to the customer.  

Patterson Veterinary approaches its markets by emphasizing and delivering a value-added model to the practitioner. To differentiate ourselves from our competition we deploy a strategy of premium customer service, a highly qualified and motivated sales force, an extensive breadth and mix of products and services, accurate and timely delivery of product, strategic location of sales offices and competitive pricing.  

U.K. Operations  

Strategy  

In August 2013, we completed the acquisition of all the outstanding stock of National Veterinary Services Limited (“NVS”) from Dechra Pharmaceuticals, PLC (“NVS Acquisition”). Headquartered in Stoke-on-Trent, NVS is the largest veterinary products distributor in the U.K. serving the companion, equine and large animal markets. Total cash consideration paid for NVS was £91.2 million (approximately $142.7 million). NVS’s objective is to grow its presence in the U.K. and Europe, to further develop a leading position in the veterinary market through acquisitions, while continuing to improve our profitability and enhance our value to customers. Our key strategies and priorities for accomplishing these objectives include growing through acquisitions, emphasizing our value-added full-service capabilities, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and expanding our service offerings. In April 2015, NVS acquired both Abbey Veterinary Services and C.A.P.L. Limited, which provide laboratory services in the U.K. with combined annual revenues of £1.7 million.  

NVS has a great opportunity to harness the investments from key initiatives launched by Patterson Veterinary in the U.S. Such initiatives include ePet Health, DIA, technical services and supply of equipment in addition to the recently launched instruments and orthopedic product line. NVS also seeks to capitalize on the content developed by Patterson Veterinary University to offer continuing professional education to practices in the U.K. The following are a number of value added services offered today in addition to the national distribution network discussed later under sales, marketing and distribution:  

Laboratory Services. Offer veterinary diagnostic laboratory services to veterinarians including pathology, hematology, chemistry, and microbiology. Samples are accepted from a wide range of species including dogs, cats, horses, birds, reptiles, fish, farm and zoo animals. One of the key objectives is to improve market share position by competing on service, utilizing NVS’s unique distribution network. Veterinary diagnostic laboratory services are approximately 2% of total net sales.  

Indicies. Provide multi-practice customers with practice benchmarks, two years of purchase history, and group practice data consolidation to help them better manage their network of practices.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Order Platforms. Direct electronic data interchange and interactive website ordering platforms comprise 75% of customer orders containing 90% of total ordered lines.  

Vetcom. Offer a windows-based practice management software package that includes an ordering platform.  

Products and Services  

The following table sets forth the percentage of total sales by the principal categories of products and services offered by our U.K. operations to veterinary segment customers:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consumable and Printed Products  

NVS offers our customers a broad selection of veterinary supply products including pharmaceuticals, vaccines, parasiticides, diagnostics, veterinary pet foods, nutritional products and consumable supplies. Our pharmaceutical products typically include anesthetics, analgesics, antibiotics, and ophthalmics. Our biological products are primarily comprised of vaccines and injectibles. Our parasiticides are used for control of external parasites (fleas, ticks, flies, mosquitoes) and internal parasites. Our diagnostics product category includes consumable in-clinic tests for detecting heartworm, lyme disease, feline leukemia and parvovirus, as well as consumable products for measuring blood chemistry, electrolyte balance and cell counts. Veterinary pet foods consist of both specialty diets and premium pet foods. Nutritional products are comprised of dietary supplements, vitamins, dental chews and specialty treats. Consumable supplies include lab supplies, various types and sizes of paper goods, needles and syringes, instruments, gauze and wound dressings, sutures, latex gloves, orthopedic and casting products.  

Other  

Laboratory services. NVS offers veterinary diagnostic laboratory services to veterinarians including pathology, hematology, chemistry, and microbiology. Samples are accepted from a wide range of species including dogs, cats, horses, birds, reptiles, fish, farm and zoo animals.  

Sales, Marketing and Distribution  

NVS has more than 1,000 customers and is well positioned to service all segments of the veterinary market through its’ sales and marketing team, national distribution network, and a fully integrated computer system. NVS has the highest percentage of buying groups and corporations compared to its’ competitors. The corporate relationship with these large customers is managed by the senior management team. The relationships with individual practices (regardless of whether they are corporately-owned or independent) are serviced by the field sales representatives, the customer service team and the depot delivery drivers. With buying groups and corporations representing a large percentage of revenues as well as the fact that 90% of orders being placed by customers are entered electronically either through the NVS web based ordering platform or via the website, the need for a large dedicated field sales team is greatly reduced. There are currently 11 field sales representatives who are responsible for calling on 300-350 customers each.  

19  

Table of Contents 

This is an operations-driven business, which means the burden of maintaining a high level of service with the customer rests with the customer service team and the delivery drivers. Both are highly valued by the customer and work closely together to meet customer expectations. NVS maintains a national distribution network, which serves as a competitive advantage. NVS offers next day business delivery on a nationwide basis in the U.K. Orders are accepted until 8:00 pm in their centralized distribution center and shipped nationwide overnight to one of 10 depots located throughout the country. The depots are essentially small staging warehouses where pre-packed orders are sorted by route for delivery to the customer. A fleet of company owned, fully cold chain compliant vehicles, at each depot, delivers the product to the customer the next business day making the driver of these vehicles an important contact point and part of the sales team. We estimate that 99% of NVS’s consumable orders are received by the customer the next business day. NVS also utilizes this distribution network to collect the customer laboratory service samples for onward shipment to the laboratories for analysis. Lab results are available electronically to the veterinarian.  

With 90% of order lines being entered electronically by the customer either through their direct ordering platform or via their website, the customer service team is primarily responsible for handling customer inquiries and resolving issues.  

Direct Marketing. To assist our sales representatives, NVS publishes a catalog containing product and service information. NVS customers receive a full-line product catalog containing over 16,000 inventoried items. The catalog includes descriptions and specifications of products and is used by practitioners as a reference source. We also promote our specials service where we will procure non-stock items for individual customers. In addition we promote our value-added products and services, new products, specially priced items and high demand items through our quarterly magazine, The Cube. Additional direct marketing tools that we utilize include specialist catalogs, customer loyalty programs, specific product and vendor programs, flyers, faxes, eNewsletters, social media, and other promotional materials. In order to extend our customer reach and enhance customer interaction, we also participate in national, regional and local trade shows and specialist veterinary events including supporting continued professional development for veterinarians and nurses.  

Sources of Supply  

NVS obtains products from nearly 400 vendors. While NVS makes purchases from many vendors and there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products, the concentration of business with key vendors is considerable. In fiscal 2015 and 2014, the top 10 veterinary supply manufacturers comprised 77% in both years, and the single largest supplier comprised 17% and 16%, of the total cost of veterinary supply sales, respectively.  

Competition  

Beyond NVS, which has national coverage, veterinary distribution in the U.K. market is concentrated primarily with two other major distributors; Henry Schein Animal Health, Inc. based in Scotland and MWI Veterinary Supply, Inc. (acquired by AmerisourceBergen in February 2015) based in Somerset, with coverage mainly in southern England. We also compete directly with pharmaceutical companies who sell certain products or services directly to the customer.  

Rehabilitation Supply  

Overview  

Patterson Medical is headquartered in Warrenville, Illinois, and is a value-added distributor of rehabilitation medical supplies and equipment. We believe Patterson Medical offers the most comprehensive range of distributed and self-manufactured rehabilitation products to health care professionals globally. Our mission is to provide health care professionals and their patients with access to products that improve peoples’ lives by helping  

20  

Table of Contents 

 them to attain their highest achievable level of independence, safety and comfort. We operate as Patterson Medical globally, and are transitioning our acquired catalog brands such as Sammons Preston, Homecraft, and Ausmedic into product brands. Patterson Medical still operates as Medco Sports Medicine in the North American sports medicine market.  

Patterson Medical serves as the gateway through which over 30,000 rehabilitation products originating from more than 1,500 suppliers and manufacturers are sold to a diverse customer base with an emphasis on physical therapists (“PTs”) and occupational therapists (“OTs”). We offer our customers a “one-stop shop” through what we believe to be the most comprehensive catalogs in the industry, the largest direct sales force and a highly efficient customer service and distribution operations. Major channels of distribution are acute care hospitals, long-term care facilities, rehabilitation clinics, dealers and schools.  

Patterson Medical offers a wide range of differentiated, non-invasive products and expertise to users and their health care providers, while focusing on niches, worldwide, where our capabilities, reputation and customer partnerships can result in a competitive advantage. Patterson Medical’s goal is to become our customers’ first choice for rehabilitation supplies and equipment in each of our chosen markets.  

Patterson Medical is highly diversified with no single product, customer or purchasing group representing a significant percentage of total revenue. In addition, given the relatively small average order size (approximately $225), our products often do not represent a major expense category for our customers.  

Patterson Medical has been pursuing a strategy of organic growth, complemented by strategic acquisitions in its domestic and international markets. This has included building and buying sales offices in the U.S., and buying and integrating distributors in the U.K., France, Australia and New Zealand. Patterson Medical also uses a robust international dealer network to service customers in countries where we do not have an established direct presence. Approximately 80% of Patterson Medical’s revenue originates in North America.  

Patterson Medical manufactures or has exclusively manufactured for us products representing approximately 35% of its total revenue. These products carry the Patterson Medical brand, or one of the many brands added through acquisition. Patterson Medical owns manufacturing facilities in the U.S., Australia, and Thailand, and has a China sourcing office. Patterson Medical is a distributor for the other 65% of its product offering, carrying the top brands in the rehabilitation industry. One of Patterson Medical’s strengths is our trading relationship with the top manufacturers of rehabilitation products in the U.S. and abroad.  

We believe the rehabilitation medical supply and assistive product industry is approximately $5.6 billion worldwide and is expected to grow faster than the overall economy over the next several years. Industry growth is driven by strong growth in the physical and occupational therapy markets and favorable demographic trends associated with the aging of the baby-boom generation. We do not participate in all product segments, so Patterson Medical’s addressable market (defined as the collective market for products sold by Patterson Medical) is approximately $3.4 billion worldwide. We believe that Patterson Medical has an industry leading market share of approximately 15% in a highly fragmented rehabilitation and assistive products market.  

We believe that the demand for rehabilitation products will continue to be influenced by the following factors:  

   •    Favorable Demographics. Favorable demographic trends such as extended life expectancy, active lifestyles and a general willingness to spend discretionary income on health care and well-being, is expected to contribute to increased demand for products distributed by Patterson Medical. Specifically, the aging baby-boomer population, together with their increased disposable income and desire for independence, will fuel product purchases to assist with the frailties associated with old age and provide sustained sales growth.  

The U.S. Census Bureau has projected the 85 and older population in the U.S. to increase significantly, from less than 6 million in 2011 to 14 million by 2040 and 19 million by 2050. The 65 to 84 year old  

21  

Table of Contents 

 population is expected to more than double between 2011 and 2040. Current trends indicate that these age groups represent the majority of home and community-based health care patients.  

The aging of the population is a revenue growth driver because approximately 10% of people over the age of 65 and approximately 50% of people over the age of 85 need assistance with everyday activities. Patterson Medical believes we are well positioned to benefit from this trend by providing aids to daily living, namely dressing devices; toileting, dining, bathing aids; and grooming devices, all of which promote greater patient independence, improved patient responsibility and improved responsiveness to treatment.  

   •    Increasing Number of PTs and OTs, Patterson Medical’s Primary User Groups. According to the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), there were approximately 199,000 PTs and 109,000 OTs in the U.S. in 2010. Approximately 60% of PTs were employed in either hospitals or offices of physical therapists. The remaining 40% of PTs was employed in home health agencies, outpatient rehabilitation clinics, physician offices and nursing homes. The majority of OTs work in hospitals, including many in rehabilitation and psychiatric hospitals. The remaining OTs work in outpatient occupational therapy offices and clinics, schools, home health agencies, nursing homes, community mental health centers, adult day care programs, job training services and residential care facilities. The demand for PTs and OTs is expected to remain strong. The BLS estimates a growth of 33.5% for OTs between 2010 and 2020, and a growth of 39% for PTs in that same time period. Both professions are expected to grow much faster than average.  

   •    Increasing Frequency of Reconstructive and Implant Surgery. Another important driver of the growth in the PT market is the growing need for rehabilitation products resulting from the increasing frequency of reconstructive implant procedures, including hip and knee replacements. The worldwide reconstructive implant market is currently in excess of $5.0 billion and expected to grow between 7% and 8% annually. This growth trajectory is largely driven by favorable demographics, as patient populations are expanding at both ends of the age spectrum. Among seniors, more active lifestyles and longer life expectancies are responsible for the increasing frequency of reconstructive implants. We believe Patterson Medical is well positioned to benefit from the growth in reconstructive implants, by providing physical therapy and exercise products that help patients return to a normal level of function.  

   •    Volatility in Funding and Regulation. The demographic growth in aged population both in the U.S. and abroad will continue to pose funding challenges for governments. Whether private pay, Medicare, Medicaid or some other funding mechanism, the population need has been outpacing available funds. This has resulted in governments changing funding methods, allocations, and rules to try to better match supply with demand. Although we do not directly participate in third party reimbursed (patient specific) product, the pressure on healthcare providers can have a pass through effect. Patterson Medical has pursued a diversified strategy so we do not rely too heavily on any one product category.  

International Operations  

Patterson Medical’s Europe, Middle East and Asia (EMEA) operations are based in the U.K. and are made up of Patterson Medical Limited in the U.K. and Patterson Medical France and Sacedi in France. Patterson Medical’s Australia and New Zealand operations (ANZ) are based in Australia. Our international domestic operations broadly reflect the same business model as used in the North American market. In the U.K., France, Australia and New Zealand, operations include sales and marketing, customer service, distribution, purchasing and administration. Outside of these countries, Patterson Medical uses a network of over 200 distributors to reach its customers.  

Patterson Medical is a leading supplier of aids to daily living (“ADL”) and rehabilitation products in the U.K., and a significant player in the international markets. Having developed and designed many proprietary products, we are the prime source for numerous established and market leading ADL brands, including products  

22  

Table of Contents 

 sold under the names Homecraft, Days, and Physiomed. The Patterson catalog offers a broad line of ADL, therapy, rehabilitation and pediatric products containing over 10,000 items and is circulated to PTs, OTs, loan equipment stores and private clinics, trade outlets and the general public.  

Patterson’s central sales and marketing strategy is to provide a “one-stop shop” proposition to hospitals, local government and trade customers (dealers) throughout the U.K. Customers are reached through a combination of mail order, a 54 person sales force, telemarketing and in-market promotional and exhibition activity.  

In 2009, Patterson acquired Mobilis Healthcare, increasing our global presence. While the Homecraft catalog has historically been focused on occupational therapy, Mobilis was a complementary addition, given its strong position in the physiotherapy market.  

In 2010, Patterson acquired the rehabilitation business of DCC Healthcare. The acquired DCC businesses, Days Healthcare, Physiomed and Ausmedic, rank among the leaders in their overseas markets, providing assistive living products and rehabilitation equipment and supplies to hospitals, physical and occupational therapists, long-term care facilities, dealers and consumers in the U.K., continental Europe, Australia, New Zealand and other international markets.  

Patterson Medical France consists of the sale and distribution of Patterson Medical products in France. Products are marketed to customers through product brochures, mailings, telemarketing and a sales force that covers the French rehabilitation market. Sacedi focuses on distribution in the therapy and sports medicine market segments.  

Strategy  

Our objective is for Patterson Medical to be the customers’ first choice for rehabilitation medical supplies and equipment in each of its chosen markets.  

Emphasizing Value-Added, Full-Service Capabilities. Patterson Medical currently offers our customers a “one-stop shop” for products through our industry-leading catalog with over 20,000 items, focused primarily on physical and occupational therapy products. Patterson Medical adds new products each year to our ever-expanding catalog and is committed to doing so long-term. Consistent with Patterson Medical’s current product offering, some of these new products are branded, exclusive or self-manufactured.  

We recognize that different customer groups have very different economic, product, distribution channel requirements and treatment goals. Patterson Medical proactively attempts to anticipate and flexibly respond to the diverse needs of our customers, while focusing on niches, worldwide, where our capabilities, reputation and customer partnerships can result in a competitive advantage. As such, we foresee an on-going evolution of our product offerings to meet the ever-increasing demands of our diverse customer segments.  

Improving Operating Efficiencies. Patterson Medical’s proprietary products, which consist of self-manufactured products, products manufactured for Patterson Medical and products sold through exclusive distribution arrangements, represent approximately 35% of total revenues.  

Growing Through Internal Expansion and Acquisitions. Patterson Medical believes we are well positioned to expand in our core markets. Our market presence, clinical understanding and close customer relationships allow us to anticipate and flexibly respond to the diverse needs of our customers. We believe our market knowledge, strong vendor relationships and manufacturing capabilities will continue to drive the delivery of value-added solutions through the continual enrichment of our product mix. Additionally, we believe our broad portfolio of national accounts and commitment to expand our sales force will enhance Patterson Medical’s growth and penetration within our current and new customer base.  

23  

Table of Contents 

Patterson Medical acquired Homecraft, Mobilis, Physiomed, Days Medical, and other businesses to establish a platform for international expansion. Each business that was added has been integrated and has added to an ever expanding brand and product portfolio. The international business continues to accelerate, in terms of both product lines and geographic regions. Since the Homecraft/Kinetec transaction, Patterson Medical has added over 550 pages of new products to the catalog. The international acquisitions brought with them a proven capability to source products at favorable costs and at high levels of quality from China, which has resulted in meaningful cost savings.  

In 2004, Patterson Medical acquired the assets of Medco Supply Company, Inc. (“Medco”) from NCH Corporation. With sales of approximately $60 million, Medco is one of the nation’s leading sports medicine distributors and is based in Buffalo, New York. In addition to Medco’s sports medicine supply business, Medco sells first aid, safety and medical consumable products to commercial and institutional customers, as well as consumable supplies and equipment to podiatrists. The complete product offering includes approximately 10,000 SKUs that are sold through direct mail catalogs and eight territory sales people. Medco markets to athletic trainers, schools and school nurses, daycare providers and healthcare professionals including podiatrists, chiropractors and physical therapists.  

In 2007, Patterson Medical acquired PTOS™ software, a leading line of practice management software for physical therapists.  

In 2009, Patterson Medical acquired Mobilis Healthcare, a U.K.-based business with sales of $28 million. Mobilis serves 12,000 customers in the U.K. and France and owns several leading brands that are sold into its primary markets.  

In 2010, Patterson Medical acquired the rehabilitation business of Empi Therapy Solutions, with sales of approximately $30 million.  

In 2010, Patterson Medical acquired the rehabilitation business of DCC Healthcare, with sales of approximately $70 million.  

Products and Services  

The following table sets forth the percentage of total sales represented by the principal categories of products and services offered to rehabilitation segment customers:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consumables  

Patterson Medical offers a large selection of supply products that can be categorized as follows:  

   •    Aids to Daily Living – dressing devices, toileting, dining, bathing aids and grooming devices  

   •    Orthopedic Soft Goods / Splints – braces, splints and orthotics for protecting, supporting and positioning  

24  

Table of Contents 

   •    Clinical – products that assist in the examination and treatment of patients, such as exercise bands, putty, weights, balls and mats  

   •    Mobility – walkers, canes and wheelchair accessories such as gloves, trays and carrying bags  

   •    Pediatric Seating and Positioning – rolls, wedges, specialty seating and standers, and mobility assistance products for special needs children; category also includes sensory motor stimulation products such as toys, crafts and devices to assist with balance  

   •    Modalities – products for heating and cooling therapies, electrical stimulation, laser, ultrasound, paraffin, iontophoresis and therapeutic creams and lotions  

Equipment and Software  

Rehabilitation equipment consists of exercise, examination, treatment and therapy equipment and furniture. These products include parallel bars, treatment tables, mat platforms, treadmills, and stationary bicycles. The 2007 acquisition of PTOS™ software added a line of practice management software to Patterson Medical’s wide array of product offerings. In addition, certain acquisitions in the recent past have given us access to premium equipment lines.  

Other  

Other products and services revenues include equipment repair revenues, software maintenance contract revenue and freight recovery on shipments to customers.  

Sales and Marketing  

Patterson Medical has been going through a process of establishing its brand globally to better leverage its international scope. This has led to a catalog branding transition of our acquired businesses (in various stages) including Sammons Preston in the U.S. and Canada, and Homecraft, Days, Physiomed, and Ausmedic in the remainder of the world.  

A core element of Patterson Medical’s strategy is to maintain the most comprehensive single catalog of rehabilitation products and supplies. The catalog, published for over 50 years, is considered the gold standard of the industry and features the most comprehensive product offering with longstanding industry leading positions and recognized brand names. Our product management group works closely with customers, suppliers and the sales force to evaluate new products for inclusion in Patterson Medical’s product offering. We add approximately 2,000 new products to the catalog each year.  

Patterson Medical has an experienced sales force, national account contracts with major customer groups, unmatched customer service within the industry and the proven ability to introduce new products each year, allowing us to compete across the entire spectrum of the rehabilitation medical supplies and non-wheelchair assistive products industry. Our field sales force totals over 200 worldwide. New sales representatives are generally hired from the ranks of physical and occupational therapists, manufacturer representatives and others with extensive industry knowledge.  

Patterson Medical’s U.S. national accounts group collaborates with our sales force to meet the changing needs of our expanding account base. The national accounts program is staffed by seasoned professionals who have developed a comprehensive portfolio of contracts. Furthermore, the Patterson Medical organization has national contracts with major purchasing groups within each submarket, including hospitals, nursing homes and dealers.  

The rehabilitation medical supplies and equipment business is highly fragmented. No one manufacturer, distributor or customer represents a significant portion of Patterson Medical’s revenue.  

25  

Table of Contents 

To enhance the total value we bring to our customers, Patterson Medical created a value-added benefit program for its preferred customers. The Patterson Advantagesm program entitles our best customers to discount pricing and cash rebates, priority service scheduling, supply management summary reports and continuing education course discounts.  

Distribution  

Patterson Medical’s distribution process centers on our ability to efficiently fill small dollar amount orders. In the U.S., over 6,000 packages ship daily from six locations. A majority of products are shipped out of three full service, shared Patterson distribution centers, one in Mt. Joy, Pennsylvania, one in Dinuba, California, and another in South Bend, Indiana. Approximately 95% of the small packages in the U.S. ship via UPS.  

Patterson Medical’s U.S. call center operates from 7am – 7pm Monday through Friday, processing in excess of 5,000 calls per day. In addition, customers can order 24 hours a day through Patterson Medical’s websites. The combination of in-house staff and web ordering options provides customers with 24 hours a day, seven days a week ordering capability. Approximately 40% of customer orders are through the web or electronic data interchange, which has decreased call center activity, allowing Patterson Medical to provide more personalized service to customers.  

Sources of Supply  

Among Patterson Medical’s core strengths is our ability to obtain premier products from vendors. Our products are purchased from over 1,500 suppliers and manufacturers. Although no single supplier accounted for more than 7% of Patterson Medical’s total purchases in fiscal 2015, we frequently are the largest single customer of these manufacturers. Suppliers view the ability to distribute their products through our global network positively due to our reputation, longstanding industry leading position, comprehensive catalogs, national account contracts, sales force presence and distribution capabilities. We continually work at strengthening our supplier relationships through the introduction of supplier programs.  

Competition  

We operate in the highly fragmented rehabilitation medical supplies and equipment industry. Patterson Medical’s competition is generally either locally or regionally focused.  

We believe Patterson Medical is the only national player to offer “one-stop shopping” to our customers. Patterson Medical’s national and international scale and purchasing power provide us with a favorable cost position relative to our competition.  

For further information on our three operating segments, and operations by geographic area, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Shared Services Initiative  

We have continued to consolidate our distribution infrastructure and business systems over the past several years. As of April 25, 2015, we have eight facilities that serve two or three of our business units. These strategically located facilities enable us to realize operating efficiencies and improve customer service.  

Our business units also share a number of sales branch office locations, enabling multiple business units to operate at one physical location. As of April 25, 2015, we have nine shared locations.  

The PTC has staff dedicated to support the technology offerings of each of our business units. Such technology product and service offerings have expanded in recent years and we will continue that focus. We  

26  

Table of Contents 

 support over 80,000 customers nationwide through the PTC, and strive to resolve any situation in one call, whether the question or concern involves hardware, software, computer networking or digital technology. Development of our proprietary practice management and certain of our patient education products takes place at the PTC. In addition to the PTC, technology support is provided to customers through our business unit’s sales branches, which provide network installation and customer training.  

Patterson Companies, Inc.  

Trademarks and Patents  

Our products and services are sold under numerous trademarks including “PATTERSON®,” “EAGLESOFT®,” “CAESY®,” “SAMMONS PRESTON®,” “TUMBLE FORMS®,” “INTRAVET®,” “DIA®” and “DOLPHIN®.” Many of our trademarks are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Our U.S. trademark registrations have 10-year terms, and may be renewed for additional 10-year terms. Because we believe our trademarks are well-recognized within their respective industries and valuable assets, we protect them against infringement. Some of our proprietary software in the orthodontia field is protected by patents, which have varying terms, generally of 17-20 years.  

Employees  

As of April 25, 2015, we had approximately 7,000 employees. We have not experienced a shortage of qualified personnel in the past and believe that we will be able to attract such employees in the future. We believe our relations with employees to be good.  

Website  

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are made available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commissions. This material may be accessed by visiting the Investor Relations section of our website at www.pattersoncompanies.com.  

Information relating to our corporate governance, including our Principles of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics, and information concerning executive officers, Board of Directors and Board committees, and transactions in Patterson securities by directors and officers, is available on or through our website www.pattersoncompanies.com in the Investor Relations section.  

Information maintained on the website is not being included as a part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Governmental Regulation  

The marketing, distribution and sale of certain products we sell are subject to the requirements of various federal, state, and local laws and regulations. We are subject to regulation by the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Department of Transportation. Among the federal laws which impact us are the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, which regulates the advertising, recordkeeping, labeling, handling, storage and sale of drugs and medical devices which are distributed by us, and which further requires us to be registered with the Federal Food and Drug Administration; the Safe Medical Devices Act, which imposes certain reporting requirements on us in the event of an incident involving serious illness, injury or death caused by a medical device we have distributed; and the Controlled Substance Act, which regulates the recordkeeping, handling, storage and sale of certain drugs sold by us and requires us to be registered with the Drug Enforcement Administration. In addition, the transportation of certain products we distribute that are considered hazardous materials is subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation.  

Furthermore, the Physician Payment Sunshine Act has imposed new reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain  

27  

Table of Contents 

 practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. The final rule implementing the Physician Payment Sunshine Act is complex, ambiguous and broad in scope; however, wholesale drug and device distributors that take title to such products may be deemed to be “applicable manufacturers” subject to full reporting requirements. It is difficult to predict how the new requirements may impact existing relationships among manufacturers, distributors, physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals.  

We also are required to be licensed as a distributor of drugs and medical devices by each state in which we conduct business. In addition, several state Boards of Pharmacy requires us to be licensed in their state for the sale of animal health products within their jurisdiction. Our company is also subject to the requirements of foreign laws and regulations, which impact our operations in those foreign countries in which we conduct business.  

While we believe we are in substantial compliance with the laws and regulations, that regulate our business, and that we possess the licenses required in the conduct of our business, our failure to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws or regulations, could negatively impact our business.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

Set forth below is the name, age and position of the executive officers of Patterson as of June 15, 2015.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our officers are elected annually and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  

Background of Executive Officers  

Scott P. Anderson was elected President and Chief Executive Officer of Patterson in April 2010, and became our Chairman in April 2013. Mr. Anderson has worked with Patterson since 1993. Prior to June 2006 when he became President of Patterson Dental Supply, Inc., Patterson’s largest business, Mr. Anderson held senior management positions in the dental unit, including Vice President, Sales, and Vice President, Marketing. Mr. Anderson started his career as a territory sales representative in the dental business before becoming national equipment manager, manager of the San Francisco branch and manager of the Minnesota branch, two of Patterson’s largest dental branch offices. Mr. Anderson became one of our directors in June 2010. He also has served as a director of C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. since January 2012.  

Ann B. Gugino became Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in November 2014 and was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in June 2015. She previously served as Vice President, Strategy & Planning since April 2012. Before that, she was Vice President of Finance and Operations – Patterson Dental from 2008 until April 2012. She joined Patterson in 2000 as an assistant controller and became Controller-Patterson Dental in 2004. Prior to her career with Patterson, she worked for Ernst & Young LLP and achieved her Certified Public Accountant designation.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Paul A. Guggenheim became President of Patterson Dental Supply, Inc. in April 2010. Mr. Guggenheim previously was the southwest region manager of Patterson Dental. Mr. Guggenheim joined us in 2000 following our acquisition of Guggenheim Brothers Dental Supply. Mr. Guggenheim has worked in the dental industry for over 25 years and is former chairman of the American Dental Trade Association (now the Dental Trade Alliance). He also is past president of the Dental Dealers of America and former chairman of the American Dental Cooperative.  

George L. Henriques became President of Patterson Veterinary Supply, Inc. in August 2006. Mr. Henriques previously served as Chief Information Officer of Webster since 2000 and is former chairman and board member of the American Veterinary Distributors Association.  

Michael J. Orscheln became President of Patterson Medical Supply, Inc. in August 2013. Prior to joining Patterson, Mr. Orscheln served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Phonak U.S. from January 2009 to April 2012. Throughout over 30 years of healthcare distribution and medical manufacturing experience, Mr. Orscheln has held senior leadership positions with American Hospital Supply Corp., Baxter Healthcare Corp., Moore Corporation, Ltd., and Cardinal Health, Inc.  

Ranell M. Hamm became Chief Information Officer in April 2011. Prior to joining Patterson, Ms. Hamm was Senior Director of Clinical Information Delivery for UnitedHealth Group. Prior to UnitedHealth Group she was employed by Assurant, Inc., where she was Senior Vice President of Finance Systems & Services, IT Security; Chief Information Officer/Chief Operating Officer of Shared Business Services; and Senior Vice President of Shared Services Organization.  

Jerome E. Thygesen became Vice President, Human Resources in March 2006. Prior to joining Patterson, Mr. Thygesen was Vice President, Organizational Development for Fairview Red Wing Health Services from September 2001 to February 2006, and Director of Human Resources for Red Wing Shoe Company from March 1987 to June 2001.  

Sean M. Muniz became the Vice President of Operations in November 2012. Mr. Muniz held the position of Director of Facilities and Risk Management since 2007 and, prior to that Mr. Muniz relocated to the Corporate Office when he became the Director of Operations for Patterson Logistics Services, Inc. in 2001. Mr. Muniz began his career with Patterson in 1990.  

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS