Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

Our fiscal 2015 financial information is summarized in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. The following background is provided to readers to more fully understand our Company’s financial information.  

Patterson operates a distribution business in three complementary markets: dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply. Historically, our strategy for growth focused on internal growth and the acquisition of smaller distributors and businesses offering related products and services to the dental market. In fiscal 2002, we expanded our strategy to take advantage of a parallel growth opportunity in the veterinary supply market by acquiring the assets of J. A. Webster, Inc., which we operated as Webster Veterinary Supply (Webster) until fiscal 2013. Webster is now known as Patterson Veterinary. Patterson added a third component to our business platform in fiscal 2004 when we entered the rehabilitation supply market with the acquisition of AbilityOne Products Corp. (“AbilityOne”). AbilityOne is now known as Patterson Medical.  

Operating margins of the veterinary business are considerably lower than the dental and rehabilitation supply businesses. While operating expenses run at a lower rate in the veterinary business, their gross margin is substantially lower due generally to the low margins on the pharmaceutical products that are distributed.  

We operate with a 52-53 week accounting convention with our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in April. Fiscal years 2013, 2014 and 2015 ending April 27, 2013, April 26, 2014 and April 25, 2015, respectively, included 52 weeks. Fiscal year 2016 will end on April 30, 2016 and consist of 53 weeks.  

There are several important aspects of Patterson’s business that are useful in analyzing it, including: (1) market growth in the various markets in which we operate; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency. Management defines “internal growth” as the increase in net sales from period to period, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and excluding the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses we have acquired.  

NVS Acquisition. In August 2013, we completed the acquisition of all the outstanding stock of National Veterinary Services Limited (“NVS”) from Dechra Pharmaceuticals, PLC (“NVS Acquisition”). NVS is the largest veterinary products distributor in the U.K. Total cash consideration paid for NVS was £91.2 million (approximately $142.7 million). Sales in fiscal 2015 were $200.2 million higher, and earnings per diluted share were $0.02 higher, than fiscal 2014 as a result of this acquisition. The NVS business has lower gross margin and operating expense rates than our historical businesses.  

Medical Restructuring. In August 2013, we announced a plan to divest certain non-core product lines in our medical segment (“Medical Restructuring”). As a result of the plan to dispose of these product lines, we incurred a pre-tax restructuring charge of $15.4 million or approximately $0.13 per diluted share in fiscal 2014, including. $13.8 million in non-cash losses on disposal of assets. We estimate that disposing of these product lines will generate operational savings of approximately $2 million beginning in fiscal year 2015.  

Transaction Costs. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, we incurred $4.6 million of pre-tax transaction costs, or approximately $0.03 per diluted share, related to the June 16, 2015 acquisition of Animal Health International and the potential sale of Patterson Medical. See “Subsequent Events” in this Item 7 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our acquisition of Animal Health International.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Results of Operations  

The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations over the past three fiscal years as a percent of sales:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2015 Compared to Fiscal 2014  

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2015 were $4,375.0 million, an increase of 7.7%, from $4,063.7 million in fiscal 2014. The growth in sales includes a 5.4% contribution from acquisitions and a 1.0% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency translation rates.  

Dental segment sales in fiscal 2015 rose 3.0% to $2,454.3 million from $2,382.1 million in fiscal 2014. The growth included a 0.2% contribution from acquisitions and a 0.8% unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency translation rates. Consumable sales increased 2.5%. Dental equipment and software sales increased 2.9% in fiscal 2015 to $818.3 million with strong contributions from both basic equipment and technology sales, led by new users of CEREC CAD/CAM systems. Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, increased 6.2% in fiscal 2015.  

Veterinary segment sales grew 21.1% to $1,456.6 million, with the NVS Acquisition responsible for 17.1 percentage points of such growth over the prior year. Consumables increased 2.9%, equipment and software sales increased 5.5% and other increased 1.5%. We believe that our equipment and technology strategy, which includes enhancing our infrastructure and becoming a national technical service provider, is driving the increases in equipment, software and services.  

Medical segment sales of $464.2 million decreased 3.0% from fiscal 2014. Sales were negatively affected by 4.3% due to reduced sales from the non-core product lines that were divested in fiscal 2014, and by 0.7% due to an unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency translation rates.  

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin decreased 120 basis points from the prior year to 28.3%. The NVS Acquisition accounts for 130 basis points of the decrease and the Medical Restructuring accounts for 10 basis points increase resulting in a comparable gross margins being flat year over year. Veterinary gross margin decreased 150 basis points mainly due to the acquisition of NVS.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio of 19.8% decreased 120 basis points from the prior year ratio of 21.0%. The NVS Acquisition accounts for 90 basis points of the decrease. The incremental expenses from the Transaction Costs relating to the acquisition of Animal Health International and the potential sale of Patterson Medical increased operating expenses by 10 basis points and the Medical Restructuring decreased operating expenses by 30 basis points resulting in a comparable decrease of 10 basis points from the prior year.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Operating Income. Current year operating income was $373.4 million, or 8.5% of net sales. In the prior year, operating income was $345.8 million, or 8.5% of net sales.  

Other (Expense) Income, Net. Net other expense was $30.8 million in the current year, a decrease of $2.0 million from the prior year. Net other expense is comprised primarily of interest expense, partly offset by interest income. Foreign currency had a negative impact of $1.9 million compared to a negative impact of $2.1 million in the prior year.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 34.8% in fiscal 2015 as compared to 35.9% in fiscal 2014. The effective tax rate decreased in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 due to the unfavorable impact of the Medical Restructuring in fiscal 2014 and an overall current year geographical shift in profits due to the NVS acquisition.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income increased 11.3% to $223.3 million, compared to $200.6 million in the prior year. The increase is mainly driven by increased sales. Earnings per diluted share were $2.24 in the current year compared to $1.97 in the prior year. Transaction Costs in the current year and Medical Restructuring costs in the prior year reduced earnings per diluted share by $0.03 and $0.13, respectively. Weighted average diluted shares in the current year were 99,694,000 compared to 101,643,000 in the prior year. The decrease in the weighted average shares was primarily due to share repurchase activity. The current year’s cash dividend was $0.82 per common share compared to $0.68 in the prior year.  

Fiscal 2014 Compared to Fiscal 2013  

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2014 were $4,063.7 million, an increase of 11.7%, from $3,637.2 million in fiscal 2013. The growth in sales includes an 11.3% contribution from acquisitions and a 0.4% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency translation rates.  

Dental segment sales in fiscal 2014 rose 0.1% to $2,382.1 million from $2,380.0 million in fiscal 2013. The growth included a 0.1% contribution from acquisitions and a 0.5% unfavorable impact from changes in foreign currency translation rates. Consumable sales increased 1.3%. Dental equipment and software sales decreased 1.8% in fiscal 2014 to $828.9 million due to strong CEREC sales in fiscal 2013 following a successful trade-up program, as well as a decrease in revenues from digital radiography products although unit volumes increased. The average selling price per unit in the latter category declined in fiscal 2014 as the focus shifted from higher capacity product to more mid-line product in the extra oral categories. Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, increased 0.3% in fiscal 2014.  

Veterinary segment sales grew 59.3% to $1,203.0 million. Acquisitions added 55.8% to sales in fiscal 2014. Excluding the NVS Acquisition, consumables increased 2.5%, equipment and software sales increased 20.3% and other increased 15.5%.  

Medical segment sales of $478.6 million decreased 4.7% from fiscal 2013, primarily as a result of reduced sales from the non-core product lines that were divested in fiscal 2014. Fiscal 2014 sales were also impacted by continuing challenges in our international business due to austerity measures implemented over healthcare costs by foreign governments. Foreign exchange rate changes had an unfavorable impact to fiscal 2014 sales growth of 0.2%.  

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin decreased 320 basis points from fiscal 2013 to 29.5%. The NVS Acquisition accounts for 250 basis points of the decrease and the Medical Restructuring accounts for 10 basis points resulting in a comparable decrease of 60 basis points from fiscal 2013’s gross margin of 32.7%. Veterinary gross margin decreased 430 basis points mainly due to the acquisition of NVS.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio of 21.0% decreased 200 basis points from fiscal 2013’s ratio of 23.0%. The NVS Acquisition accounts for 190 basis points of the decrease. The incremental  

43  

Table of Contents 

 expenses from information technology initiatives increased operating expense by 30 basis points and the Medical Restructuring increased operating expenses by 30 basis points resulting in a comparable decrease of 70 basis points from fiscal 2013 of 23.0%.  

Operating Income. Fiscal 2014 operating income was $345.8 million, or 8.5% of net sales. In fiscal 2013, operating income was $354.5 million, or 9.7% of net sales. The decrease in the operating margin was due primarily to the NVS Acquisition, the Medical Restructuring and incremental expenses from the information technology initiatives, which combined reduced the operating margin by 140 basis points, resulting in a comparable operating margin rate of 9.9%.  

Other (Expense) Income, Net. Net other expense was $32.8 million in fiscal 2014, a decrease of $0.5 million from fiscal 2013. Net other expense was comprised primarily of interest expense, partly offset by interest income. Foreign currency had a negative impact of $2.1 million compared to a negative impact of $1.5 million in fiscal 2013. Interest income of $5.0 million was up from $4.5 million in fiscal 2013.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 35.9% in fiscal 2014 as compared to 34.5% in fiscal 2013. The effective tax rate increased in fiscal 2014 as compared to fiscal 2013 due to certain one-time benefits that were included in the fiscal 2013 rate and the unfavorable impact of the Medical Restructuring in fiscal 2014.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income decreased 4.6% to $200.6 million, compared to $210.3 million in fiscal 2013. The decline was the result of the Medical Restructuring and the incremental expenses incurred in the information technology initiatives partially offset by the earnings contribution from NVS. Earnings per diluted share were $1.97 in fiscal 2014 compared to $2.03 in fiscal 2013. The impact on earnings per diluted share from the Medical Restructuring was $0.13 in fiscal 2014, and incremental information technology expenditures impacted diluted earnings per share by $0.07 in fiscal 2014. Weighted average diluted shares in fiscal 2014 were 101,643,000 compared to 103,807,000 in fiscal 2013. The decrease in the weighted average shares is primarily due to share repurchase activity. The fiscal 2014 cash dividend was $0.68 per common share compared to $0.58 in fiscal 2013.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Patterson’s operating cash flow has been our principal source of liquidity in the last three fiscal years. During fiscal 2015 and 2014, we used our revolving credit facility periodically as a source of liquidity in addition to operating cash flow. Operating activities generated cash of $262.7 million in fiscal 2015, compared to $195.8 million in fiscal 2014 and $299.2 million in fiscal 2013. Our operating activities are primarily driven by net income.  

Capital expenditures were $62.9 million, $40.3 million and $22.0 million in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Significant expenditures in these years included investments in our information technology initiatives. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $54 million in fiscal 2016, with our main investment being in information technology initiatives.  

Cash used for acquisitions and equity investments totaled $10.5 million in fiscal 2015, $145.8 million in fiscal 2014 and $14.6 million in fiscal 2013. The majority of the cash used for acquisitions in fiscal 2015 related to the acquisition of Holt Dental. In fiscal 2014, the majority of the cash used for acquisitions related to the acquisitions of NVS and Mercer Mastery. In fiscal 2013, the majority of the cash used for acquisitions related to the acquisitions of Iowa Dental Supply and Universal Vaporizer Support. See “Subsequent Events” in this Item 7 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our acquisition of Animal Health International.  

In fiscal 2015, we entered into a Note Purchase Agreement, under which we issued fixed rate Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $250.0 million at an interest rate of 3.48% per annum, due March 24, 2025.  

44  

Table of Contents 

 The proceeds were used to repay $250.0 million of Senior Notes that came due on March 25, 2015. In fiscal 2013, we retired $125.0 million of debt. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

In fiscal 2015, a cash payment of $29.0 million was made to settle an interest rate swap. We originally entered into this swap in January 2014 to hedge interest rate fluctuations in anticipation of refinancing the Senior Notes that came due on March 25, 2015.  

In fiscal 2014, we invested in three time deposits with total principal of $110.0 million Canadian. Our time deposit securities are classified as “held-to-maturity” securities and are carried at cost, adjusted for accrued interest and amortization. At April 25, 2015, these securities are classified as short-term investments in the amount of $53.4 million.  

Total dividends paid in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $81.8 million, $85.7 million and $43.7 million, respectively. We expect to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend for the foreseeable future. In addition, during fiscal 2015, we repurchased approximately 1.2 million shares of common stock for approximately $47.5 million. In fiscal 2014, we repurchased approximately 2.4 million shares of common stock for approximately $96.5 million. In fiscal 2013, we repurchased approximately 5.2 million shares of common stock for approximately $179.5 million. Under a share repurchase plan authorized by the Board of Directors, as of March 19, 2013, Patterson may repurchase up to 25.0 million shares of its common stock. This authorization remains in effect through March 19, 2018. As of April 25, 2015, approximately 20.9 million shares remain available under the current repurchase authorization.  

Management expects funds generated from operations and existing cash to be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the next fiscal year. We have $347.3 million in cash and cash equivalents as of April 25, 2015, of which $212.9 million is in foreign bank accounts. None of our cash balances is subject to any withdrawal restrictions. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding our intention to permanently reinvest these funds. In addition, we have a $300 million revolving credit facility, which expires in fiscal 2017. Patterson’s existing debt facilities are believed to be adequate as a supplement to internally generated cash flows to fund anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives.  

We expect to continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of equipment finance contracts. Patterson sells a significant portion of our finance contracts (see below) to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for Patterson. Patterson is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of our finance contracts and our financial strength. Cash flows could be impaired if our financial strength diminishes to a level that precluded us from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. Also, market conditions outside of our control could adversely affect the ability for us to sell the contracts.  

Customer Financing Arrangements  

Patterson is a party to two arrangements under which we have sold finance contracts received from our customers to outside financial institutions. These arrangements provide sources of liquidity for us that would have to be replaced should any of the current financial institutions be unable or unwilling to continue under them.  

In December 2010, the Receivables Purchase Agreement was amended to make The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (“BTMU”) the managing agent. As of April 25, 2015, the total capacity under this agreement is $500 million, which includes $300 million with BTMU and the remainder with Royal Bank of Canada (RBC). In August 2011, Fifth Third Bank (FTB) replaced U.S. Bank National Association as the agent under the Contract Purchase Agreement, which has a capacity of $100 million as of April 25, 2015. Our financing business is described in further detail in Note 6 “Customer Financing” of the Notes to the Consolidated  

45  

Table of Contents 

 Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Note 6, discusses the nature and business purpose of the arrangements and the activity under each arrangement during fiscal 2015, including the amount of finance contracts sold and the deferred purchase price receivable owed to us.  

Contractual Obligations  

A summary of Patterson’s contractual obligations as of April 25, 2015 follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Patterson is unable to determine its contractual obligations by year related to the provisions of ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes”, as the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of its reserves for income taxes cannot be reasonably estimated. The total liability for unrecognized tax benefits including interest and penalties at April 25, 2015 is $20.9 million.  

For a more complete description of Patterson’s contractual obligations, see Notes 7 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Outlook  

For the past several years, we have grown revenue and earnings by: delivering value-added, full-service capabilities; enhancing customer service through technology; further improving operating efficiencies; and expanding both organically and through acquisitions. While we expect the recent slow economic growth to continue to affect our performance for the foreseeable future, Patterson’s strategy will remain focused on the initiatives above, as well as our current efforts to broaden our view of our markets and focus on our core strengths in our Dental and Veterinary businesses. We believe this combination of strategies will further optimize our operational platform, expand our growth profile and position Patterson to capitalize on the growth opportunities before us. With strong operating cash flow and available credit capacity, we are confident that we will be able to financially support our future growth.  

Asset Management  

The following table summarizes Patterson’s days sales outstanding (“DSO”) and inventory turnover the past three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Calculation includes approximately $12 million, $7 million and $9 million as of April 25, 2015, April 26, 2014 and April 27, 2013, respectively, of receivables from finance contracts received from customers related to certain financing promotions.  

Foreign Operations  

Foreign sales derive primarily from Patterson Dental and Patterson Medical operations in Canada, from Patterson Veterinary’s operations in the U.K. and from Patterson Medical operations in the U.K., France, Australia and Thailand. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings.  

46  

Table of Contents 

 However, changes in exchange rates adversely affected net sales by $40.2 million, $13.9 million, and $5.6 million in fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Changes in currency exchange rates are a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to our consolidated operations.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Patterson has adopted various accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes that our policies are conservative and our philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of Patterson’s assets and liabilities. Therefore, the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply to our significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of Patterson may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that we have not previously experienced and for which we have not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle.  

Revenue Recognition – Revenues are generated from the sale of consumable products, equipment, software products and services, technical service parts and labor, freight and delivery charges, and other sources. Revenues are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and there is reasonable assurance of collection of the sale. Estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates, loyalty programs and other revenue allowances are made at the time the revenue is recognized based on the historical experience for such items. In addition to revenues generated from the distribution of consumable products under conventional arrangements (buy/sell agreements) where the full market value of the product is recorded as revenue, the veterinary segment may earn a small amount of commission income for services provided under agency agreements with certain pharmaceutical manufacturers. The services generally consist of detailing the product and taking the customer’s order. The agency agreement contrasts to a buy/sell agreement in that the veterinary segment does not purchase and handle the product or bill and collect from the customer in an agency relationship with a vendor.  

Consumable product sales are recorded upon delivery, except in those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point. Commissions under agency agreements are recorded when the services are provided.  

Equipment and software product revenues are recognized upon delivery and, if necessary, installation. In those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point, revenues are recognized when products are transferred to the shipping carrier. Revenue derived from post contract customer support for software is deferred and recognized ratably over the period in which the support is provided. Patterson provides financing for select equipment and software sales. Revenue is recorded at the present value of the finance contract, with discount, if any, and interest income recognized over the life of the finance contract as “other income”. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding customer financing.  

Other revenue, including freight and delivery charges and technical service parts and labor, is recognized when the related product revenue is recognized or when the product or services are provided to the customer.  

The receivables that result from the recognition of revenue are reported net of the related allowances discussed above. Patterson maintains a valuation allowance based upon the expected collectability of receivables held. Estimates are used to determine the valuation allowance and are based on several factors, including  

47  

Table of Contents 

 historical collection data, economic trends and credit worthiness of customers. Receivables are written off when we determine the amounts to be uncollectible, typically upon customer bankruptcy or non-response to continuous collection efforts. The portions of receivable amounts that are not expected to be collected during the next twelve months are classified as long-term.  

Patterson has a relatively large, dispersed customer base and no single customer accounts for more than 1% of consolidated net sales. In addition, the equipment sold to customers under finance contracts generally serves as collateral for the contract and the customer provides a personal guarantee as well.  

Patterson Advantage Loyalty Program – Patterson Dental provides a point-based awards program to qualifying customers involving the issuance of “Patterson Advantage dollars” which can be used toward equipment and technology purchases. The program was initiated in January 2009 and runs on a calendar year schedule. Patterson Advantage dollars earned during a program year expire one year after the end of the program year. The cost and corresponding liability associated with the program is recognized as contra-revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605-50, “Revenue Recognition-Customer Payments and Incentives.” As of April 25, 2015, we believe we have sufficient experience with the program to reasonably estimate the amount of Patterson Advantage dollars that will not be redeemed and thus have recorded a liability for 87% of the maximum potential amount that could be redeemed. We use the redemption recognition method, and we recognize the estimated value of unused–Patterson Advantage dollars as redemptions occur. Breakage recognized was immaterial to all periods presented.  

Inventory and Reserves – Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. We continually assess the valuation of inventories and reduce the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. Estimates are made of the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements.  

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets – Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. We have three reporting units as of April 25, 2015, which are the same as our reportable segments. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets include copyrights, trade names and trademarks.  

We evaluate goodwill at least annually using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of any reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we determine that the fair value of the reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount, we evaluate goodwill using a two-step impairment test. Otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and we do not perform the two-step impairment test. In fiscal 2015, we determined it was appropriate to perform a two-step impairment test.  

The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, with its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recorded. The determination of fair value involves uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry and economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Patterson conducts impairment testing based on current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. Additionally, in assessing goodwill for impairment, the reasonableness of the implied control premium is considered based on market capitalizations and recent market transactions.  

Other indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of an asset with its fair value. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The determination of fair value involves assumptions, including projected revenues and gross profit levels, as well as consideration of any factors that may indicate potential impairment.  

48  

Table of Contents 

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015, management completed its annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests and determined there was no impairment and that none of our reporting units are at risk of failing step 1. Although we believe estimates and assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such estimates and assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and financial results, including an impairment charge that could be material.  

Long-Lived Assets – Long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such assets. Our definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of an exclusive distribution agreement and customer lists. When impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value.  

Income Taxes – We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes.  

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, we recognize tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite our belief that our tax return position is supportable, we believe that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. We believe that our accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on our assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made and could materially affect our financial results.  

Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets if, after assessment of available positive and negative evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be fully realized. The valuation allowance reflected in the footnote disclosure relates to net operating loss carryforwards of certain foreign subsidiaries acquired in prior years.  

Self-insurance – Patterson is self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, product liability, automobile, workers’ compensation and medical claims. We estimate our liabilities based upon an analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. While current estimates are believed reasonable based on information currently available, actual results could differ and affect financial results due to changes in the amount or frequency of claims, medical cost inflation or other factors. Historically, actual results related to these types of claims have not varied significantly from estimated amounts.  

Stock-based Compensation – We recognize stock-based compensation based on certain assumptions including inputs within the Black-Scholes Model and estimated forfeitures. These assumptions require subjective judgment and changes in the assumptions can materially affect fair value estimates. Management assesses the assumptions and methodologies used to estimate forfeitures and to calculate estimated fair value of stock-based compensation on a regular basis. Circumstances may change, and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to these assumptions and methodologies and thereby materially impact the fair value determination or estimates of forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, the amount of compensation expense associated with stock-based compensation may differ significantly from what was recorded in the current period.  

Subsequent Events  

On June 16, 2015, we completed the previously announced acquisition of Animal Health International, Inc., a leading production animal health distribution company in the United States, for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. Animal Health International generated sales and earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and  

49  

Table of Contents 

 amortization of $1.5 billion and $68 million, respectively, during the 12 months ended March 2015. This acquisition will more than double the size of Patterson’s veterinary business. The combined unit will offer a range of products and services to customers in the U.S., Canada and the U.K. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK