Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (in millions)    

 General   

 During 2007, the Company continued to strengthen its financial performance through the implementation of the Company’s strategic plan and the expansion of its national platform in routine testing. This plan continues to provide growth opportunities for the Company by building a leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies primarily through internal development efforts, acquisitions and technology licensing activities.   

 The Company recognizes the strategic value of managed care in the industry and continues to have strong relationships with national managed care organizations. On an exclusive and non-exclusive basis, most major managed care organizations have re-contracted in 2007 for laboratory services with single or multi-year agreements.   

 Effective January 1, 2007, the Company commenced its successful implementation of its ten-year agreement with United Healthcare Insurance Company (“UnitedHealthcare”) and became its exclusive national laboratory provider. Over a period of several years, the Company will continue to perform more of UnitedHealthcare’s testing. During the first three years of the ten-year agreement, the Company has committed to reimburse UnitedHealthcare up to $200 for transition costs related to developing expanded networks in defined markets. During 2007, approximately $38.3 of such transition payments were billed to the Company by UnitedHealthcare and approximately $32.0 had been remitted by the Company.   

 During 2007 and the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company opened over 400 new patient service centers and hired over 1,700 new service positons to provide increased accessibility to the clients and patients of UnitedHealthcare as well as all of the Company’s customer base. By increasing its customer service access points and by working with UnitedHealthcare to convert its members’ business over to LabCorp, the Company believes that it has been able to reduce the amount of UnitedHealthcare’s transition costs. Based on the preliminary trend rates of the transition payment amounts billed by UnitedHealthcare during 2007, the Company believes that its total reimbursement commitment under this agreement will be approximately $115.0. The Company is amortizing the total estimated transition costs over the life of the contract. In addition, the Company invested approximately $29.0 and $15.6 in capital projects relating to the United Healthcare contract during 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

 During the second quarter of 2007, the Company executed a multi-year clinical laboratory services contract renewal with CIGNA HealthCare (“CIGNA”), whereby the Company will continue to be a contracted laboratory provider in all CIGNA markets. Additionally, effective January 1, 2008, the Company will no longer be contractually restricted from marketing that it is a fully participating, in-network provider to CIGNA for all services in all major markets.   

 Effective July 1, 2007, the Company became a non-participating laboratory provider for Aetna Inc. (“Aetna”). However, the Company has continued to accept and perform laboratory services for Aetna patients and physicians in cases where the Company is the laboratory of choice for Aetna members and physicians.   

 During 2007, the Company executed a five-year agreement with Humana, Inc. (“Humana”) which continues its relationship with the Company and allows all of Humana’s members to have access to the Company’s laboratory testing services in all of Humana’s markets.   

 With the Company’s expanding geographic base of customer service locations, it will continue to focus on all of its other managed care partners in order to achieve superior patient care at competitive prices. Wellpoint, Inc. (“Wellpoint”) continues to be a valued partner and the Company continues to work with Wellpoint on ways to expand the parties’ national strategic relationship, including the Company’s commitment to maximize the value of Wellpoint’s laboratory testing spend.   

 Effective January 1, 2008 the Company acquired additional partnership units in its Ontario, Canada joint venture, bringing the Company’s percentage interest owned up to 85.6%. Concurrent with this acquisition, the terms of the joint venture’s partnership agreement were amended. Based upon the  

(36) 

amended terms of this agreement, the Company began including the consolidated operating results, financial position and cash flows of the Ontario, Canada joint venture in the Company’s consolidated financial statements on January 1, 2008. The amended joint venture’s partnership agreement also enables the minority interest to put the remaining partnership units to the Company in defined future periods, at an initial amount equal to the consideration paid by the Company in 2008, and subject to adjustment based on market value formulas contained in the agreement.    

Seasonality   

 The majority of the Company’s testing volume is dependent on patient visits to doctor’s offices and other providers of health care. Volume of testing generally declines during the year-end holiday periods and other major holidays. In addition, volume declines due to inclement weather may reduce net revenues and cash flows. Therefore, comparison of the results of successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year.    

Results of Operations    

Years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005   

Net Sales  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 The increase in net sales for the three years ended December 31, 2007 has been driven primarily by volume growth in the Company’s Managed Care business, the impact of acquisitions and the Company’s continued shift in test mix to higher priced genomic and esoteric tests. As a percentage of total net sales, Managed Care revenue has increased during the three year period ended December 31, 2007 from 40.2% in 2005 to 46.1% in 2007. The acquisitions of US Labs and Esoterix in 2005 have helped to build on the Company’s leadership position in the genomic and esoteric market, which accounted for 34.3%, 34.6% and 34.0% of total net sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

(37) 

Cost of Sales  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Cost of sales, which includes primarily laboratory and distribution costs, has increased over the three year period ended December 31, 2007 primarily due to increased volume in the Company’s Managed Care business, the impact of acquisitions and the continued shift in test mix to higher cost genomic and esoteric testing. As a percentage of sales, cost of sales has increased during the three year period ended December 31, 2007 from 58.2% in 2005 to 58.4% in 2007. The increase in cost of sales was driven by the Company’s roll-out of patient service centers and other customer service infrastructure, along with increases in cost of materials due to shifts in the Company’s test mix, coupled with providing new clients with specimen collection supplies. Labor and testing supplies comprise over 75% of the Company’s cost of sales.   

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Total selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) as a percentage of sales have decreased over the three year period ended December 31, 2007. The Company has reduced its bad debt expense rate over the three year period from 5.4% in 2005 to 4.8% in 2007. The decrease in the bad debt expense rate is the result of improved billing and collection performance. Other SG&A expenses increased in 2006 due to the Company’s adoption of SFAS 123(R) during the first quarter of 2006, which required the Company to record compensation expense of $23.3 related to its stock option and stock purchase plans. During the second half of fiscal year 2006, the Company recorded charges of approximately $12.4, primarily related to the acceleration of the recognition of stock compensation due to the retirement of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, which was effective December 31, 2006.   

Amortization of Intangibles and Other Assets  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 The increase in amortization of intangibles and other assets is driven primarily by the impact of acquisitions and licensed technology.   

Investment Loss  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 During the second quarter of 2005, the Company recorded an investment loss of $3.1, related to a write-off of the value of warrants to purchase common stock of Exact Sciences Corporation (“Exact”), which were obtained as part of the Company’s licensing agreement for Exact’s PreGen Plus technology in 2002. The original term of the warrants expired in June 2005.  

(38) 

Restructuring and Other Special Charges  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 During 2007, the Company recorded charges related to reductions in work force and consolidation of redundant and underutilized facilities. For 2007, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $50.6. Of this amount, $24.8 related to employee severance benefits for approximately 1,560 employees primarily in management, administrative, technical, service and support functions and $19.4 related to contractual obligations and other costs associated with the closure of facilities. The charges also included a write-off of approximately $6.5 of accounts receivable balances remaining on a subsidiary’s billing system that was abandoned during the year and $0.9 related to settlement of a preacquisition employment liability. The Company also recorded a credit of $1.0, comprised of $0.7 of previously recorded facility costs and $0.3 of employee severance benefits.   

 During the third quarter of 2006, the Company recorded net restructuring charges of $1.0 relating to certain expense-reduction initiatives undertaken across the Company’s corporate and divisional operations. This net charge was the result of a charge of $2.4 related to employee severance benefits for approximately 180 employees primarily in administrative and support functions, and a credit of $1.4 related to occupying a testing facility that had previously been shut down.   

 During the third and fourth quarters of 2005, the Company began to implement its plan related to the integration of Esoterix and US LABS operations into the Company’s service delivery network. The plan is directed at reducing redundant facilities while maintaining excellent customer service. The Company recorded $11.9 of costs associated with the execution of the integration plan. The majority of these integration costs related to employee severance and contractual obligations associated with leased facilities and equipment. Of this amount, $10.1 related to employee severance benefits for approximately 700 employees, with the remainder primarily related to contractual obligations associated with leased facilities. Employee groups affected as a result of this plan included those involved in the collection and testing of specimens, as well as administrative and other support functions. The Company also recorded a special charge of $5.0 related to forgiveness of amounts owed by patients and clients as well as other costs associated with the areas of the Gulf Coast severely impacted by hurricanes Katrina and Rita.   

Interest Expense  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 was driven primarily by borrowings under the five-year, $500 Term Loan Facility in October 2007. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 was driven by the issuance of the 5 5/8% senior notes due 2015 in December 2005.   

Income from Joint Venture Partnerships  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 Income from investments in joint venture partnerships represents the Company’s ownership share in joint venture partnerships. The increase in income from these investments was driven by improvement in operational performance and favorable exchange rates. A significant portion of this income is derived from investments in Ontario and Alberta, Canada, and is earned in Canadian dollars.  

(39) 

Income Tax Expense  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 The increase in the effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 was primarily the result of higher foreign related earnings. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 was favorably impacted by a deduction for certain dividends received in 2005.    

Liquidity, Capital Resources and Financial Position   

 The Company’s strong cash-generating capability and financial condition provide ready access to capital markets. The Company’s principal source of liquidity is operating cash flow. This cash-generating capability is one of the Company’s fundamental strengths and provides substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating, investing and financing needs. In addition, the Company has new senior unsecured credit facilities that are further discussed in “Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements.”    

Operating Activities   

 In 2007, the Company’s operations provided $709.7 of cash, net of $32.0 in transition payments to UnitedHeathcare, reflecting the Company’s solid business results. The growth in the Company’s cash flow from operations primarily resulted from improved revenues. The Company continued to focus on efforts to increase cash collections from all payers, as well as on-going improvements to the claim submission processes.   

 During 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company made contributions to its defined pension plan in the amounts of $0.0, $0.0 and $8.0, respectively. The Company does not expect to contribute to its defined benefit pension plan during 2008 and is not legally required to do so. See “Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements” for a further discussion of the Company’s pension and postretirement plans.    

Investing Activities   

 Capital expenditures were $142.6, $115.9 and $93.6 for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The Company expects capital expenditures of approximately $120 to $140 in 2008. The Company will continue to make important investments in information technology. Such expenditures are expected to be funded by cash flow from operations as well as borrowings under the Company’s revolving credit facilities as needed.   

 The Company remains committed to growing its business through strategic acquisitions and licensing agreements. The Company has invested a total of $593.6 over the past three years in strategic business acquisitions. These acquisitions have helped strengthen the Company’s geographic presence along with expanding capabilities in the specialty testing businesses. The Company believes the acquisition market remains attractive, especially in light of recent credit market corrections, with a number of opportunities to strengthen its scientific capabilities, grow esoteric testing capabilities and increase presence in key geographic areas.   

 The Company has invested a total of $6.7 over the past three years in licensing new testing technologies and had $46.9 net book value of capitalized patents, licenses and technology at December 31, 2007. While the Company continues to believe its strategy of entering into licensing and technology distribution agreements with the developers of leading-edge technologies will provide future growth in revenues, there are certain risks associated with these investments. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risk that the licensed technology will not gain broad acceptance in the marketplace; or that insurance companies, managed care organizations, or Medicare and Medicaid will not approve reimbursement for these tests at a level commensurate with the costs of running the tests. Any or all of these circumstances could result in impairment in the value of the related capitalized licensing costs.  

(40) 

Financing Activities   

 On October 26, 2007, the Company entered into new senior unsecured credit facilities totaling $1,000.0. The new facilities consist of a five-year Revolving Facility in the principal amount of $500.0 and a five-year, $500.0 Term Loan Facility. On October 26, 2007, the Company borrowed $500.0 under the Term Loan Facility, and outstanding Letters of Credit totaling $110.5 were extended under the new facilities. The Company’s previous revolving credit facility was terminated upon the closing of the new facilities. The balance outstanding on the Company’s new Revolving Facility at December 31, 2007 was $0.0. The senior unsecured credit facilities bear interest at varying rates based upon the Company’s credit rating with Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services. As of December 31, 2007, the interest rates on the Term Loan Facility and the new Revolving Facility were 5.6% and 5.1%, respectively.   

 The new senior credit facilities contain certain debt covenants, which require that the Company maintain leverage and interest coverage ratios of 2.5 to 1.0 and 5.0 to 1.0, respectively. Both ratios are calculated in relation to EBITDA (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization). The covenants also restrict the payment of dividends. The Company is in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2007.   

 During 2007, the Company repurchased $924.2 of stock representing 13.1 million shares. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had outstanding authorization from the Board of Directors to purchase approximately $425.8 of Company common stock.   

 On September 22, 2006, the Company announced that it had commenced an exchange offer related to its zero-coupon subordinated notes due 2021. In the exchange offer, the Company offered to exchange a new series of zero-coupon convertible subordinated notes due September 11, 2021 (the “New Notes”) and an exchange fee of $2.50 per $1,000 aggregate principal amount at maturity for all of the outstanding zero-coupon subordinated notes due 2021 (the “Old Notes”).   

 The purpose of the exchange offer was to exchange the Old Notes for the New Notes with certain different terms, including the addition of a net share settlement feature. The net share settlement feature requires the Company to satisfy its obligation due upon conversion to holders of the New Notes in cash for a portion of the conversion obligation equal to the accreted principal of the New Notes and in shares for the remainder of the conversion value. In addition, the New Notes provide that the Company no longer has the option to issue shares in lieu of paying cash if and when the Company repurchases the New Notes at the option of holders.   

 On October 23, 2006, the exchange offer expired. Following settlement of the exchange, $741.2 in aggregate principal amount at maturity of the New Notes and $2.6 in aggregate principal amount at maturity of the Old Notes were outstanding.    

Credit Ratings   

 The Company’s debt ratings of Baa3 from Moody’s and BBB from Standard and Poor’s contribute to its ability to access capital markets.   

Contractual Cash Obligations  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(41) 

 (a)     Contingent future licensing payments will be made if certain events take place, such as the launch of a specific test, the transfer of certain technology, and when specified revenue milestones are met.    

 (b)     Holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may require the Company to purchase in cash all or a portion of their notes on September 11, 2011 at $819.54 per note ($741.2 in the aggregate). Should the holders put the notes to the Company on that date, the Company believes that it will be able to satisfy this contingent obligation with cash on hand, borrowings on the revolving credit facility, and additional financing if necessary. As announced by the Company on January 4, 2008, holders of the zero-coupon subordinated notes may choose to convert their notes subject to terms as defined in the note agreement. See “Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further information regarding the Company’s zero-coupon subordinated notes.    

 (c)     The table does not include obligations under the Company’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, which are included in “Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Benefits under the Company’s postretirement medical plan are made when claims are submitted for payment, the timing of which are not practicable to estimate.    

 (d)     The table does not include the Company’s contingent obligation to reimburse up to $200.0 in transition costs during the first three years of the UnitedHealthcare contract.    

 (e)     The table does not include the Company’s reserves for unrecognized tax benefits. The Company had a $66.5 and $56.8 reserve for unrecognized tax benefits, including interest and penalties, at December 31, 2007 and January 1, 2007, respectively, which is included in “Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements.” Substantially all of these tax reserves are classified in other long-term liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2007.    

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

 The Company does not have transactions or relationships with “special purpose” entities, and the Company does not have any off balance sheet financing other than normal operating leases.    

Other Commercial Commitments   

 At December 31, 2007, the Company provided letters of credit aggregating approximately $104.8, primarily in connection with certain insurance programs and contractual guarantees on obligations under the Company’s contract with UnitedHealthcare. The UnitedHealthcare contract requires that the Company provide a $50.0 letter of credit, as security for the Company’s contingent obligation to reimburse up to $200.0 in transition costs during the first three years of the contract. Letters of credit provided by the Company are secured by the Company’s senior credit facilities and are renewed annually, around mid-year.   

 At December 31, 2007, the Company was a guarantor on approximately $6.4 of equipment leases. These leases were entered into by a joint venture in which the Company owns a fifty percent interest and have a remaining term of approximately four years.   

 Based on current and projected levels of operations, coupled with availability under its senior credit facilities, the Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to meet both its short-term and long-term cash needs; however, the Company continually reassesses its liquidity position in light of market conditions and other relevant factors.    

New Accounting Pronouncements   

 In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 “Fair Value Measurements” (“SFAS 157”). SFAS 157 establishes a common definition for fair value to be applied to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requiring use of fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosure about such fair value measurements. SFAS 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In February 2008, the FASB decided to issue a final Staff Position to allow a one-year deferral of adoption of SFAS 157 for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis. The FASB also  

(42) 

decided to amend SFAS 157 to exclude FASB Statement No. 13 and its related interpretative accounting pronouncements that address leasing transactions. The Company is currently assessing the impact, if any, of SFAS 157 on its consolidated financial statements.   

 In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities” (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Items eligible for this measurement include: employer and plan obligations for pension benefits, other postretirement benefits, employee stock options, and stock purchase plans. The Company must report unrealized gains or losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. This Statement is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2008. The Company is currently assessing the impact, if any, of SFAS 159 on its consolidated financial statements.   

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements – an amendment of ARB No. 151.” (“SFAS 160”). SFAS 160 requires all entities to report noncontrolling (minority) interests in subsidiaries as equity in the consolidated financial statements. Its intention is to eliminate the diversity in practice regarding the accounting for transactions between an entity and noncontrolling interests. This Statement is effective for the Company as of January 1, 2009. Earlier adoption is prohibited. The Company is currently assessing the impact, if any, of SFAS 160 on its consolidated financial statements.   

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), a revised version of SFAS No. 141,“Business Combinations.” The revision is intended to simplify existing guidance and converge rulemaking under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) with international accouting rules. This statement applies prospectively to business combinations where the acquisition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period beginning on or after December 15, 2008. An entity may not apply it before that date. The new standard also converges financial reporting under U.S. GAAP with international accounting rules. The Company is currently assessing the impact, if any, of SFAS 141(R) on its consolidated financial statements.    

Critical Accounting Policies   

 The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. While management believes these estimates are reasonable and consistent, they are by their very nature, estimates of amounts that will depend on future events. Accordingly, actual results could differ from these estimates. The Company’s Audit Committee periodically reviews the Company’s significant accounting policies. The Company’s critical accounting policies arise in conjunction with the following:  

  •   Revenue recognition and allowances for doubtful accounts;   

  •   Pension expense;   

  •   Accruals for self insurance reserves; and   

  •   Income taxes   

Revenue recognition and allowance for doubtful accounts   

 Revenue is recognized for services rendered when the testing process is complete and test results are reported to the ordering physician. The Company’s sales are generally billed to three types of payers – clients, patients and third parties, such as managed care companies, Medicare and Medicaid. For clients, sales are recorded on a fee-for-service basis at the Company’s client list price, less any negotiated discount. Patient sales are recorded at the Company’s patient fee schedule, net of any discounts negotiated with physicians on behalf of their patients. The Company bills third-party payers in two ways – fee-for-service and capitated agreements. Fee-for-service third-party payers are billed at the Company’s patient fee schedule amount, and third-party revenue is recorded net of contractual discounts. These discounts are recorded at the transaction level at the time of sale based on a fee schedule that is maintained for each third-party payer. The majority of the Company’s third-party sales are recorded  

(43) 

using an actual or contracted fee schedule at the time of sale. For the remaining third-party sales, estimated fee schedules are maintained for each payer. Adjustments to the estimated payment amounts are recorded at the time of final collection and settlement of each transaction as an adjustment to revenue. These adjustments are not material to the Company’s results of operations in any period presented. The Company periodically adjusts these estimated fee schedules based upon historical payment trends. Under capitated agreements with managed care companies, the Company recognizes revenue based on a negotiated monthly contractual rate for each member of the managed care plan regardless of the number or costs of services performed.   

 The Company has a formal process to estimate and review the collectibility of its receivables based on the period of time they have been outstanding. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level. The Company’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for doubtful accounts involves judgment, and considers such factors as the age of the underlying receivables, historical and projected collection experience, and other external factors that could affect the collectibility of its receivables. Accounts are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts based on the Company’s write-off policy (e.g., when they are deemed to be uncollectible). In the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance, accounts are progressively reserved based on the historical timing of cash collections relative to their respective aging categories within the Company’s receivables. These collection and reserve processes, along with the close monitoring of the billing process, help reduce the risks of material revisions to reserve estimates resulting from adverse changes in collection or reimbursement experience. The following table presents the percentage of the Company’s net accounts receivable outstanding by aging category at December 31, 2007 and 2006:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

Pension Expense   

 Substantially all employees of the Company are covered by a defined benefit retirement plan (the “Company Plan”). The benefits to be paid under the Company Plan are based on years of credited service and compensation earned while an employee of LabCorp. The Company also has a nonqualified supplemental retirement plan which covers its senior management group and provides for additional benefits, due in part to limitations on benefits and pay imposed on the Company Plan under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.   

 The Company’s net pension cost is developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are key assumptions, including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated on an annual basis at the beginning of each year. The Company is required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. Changes in pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in these assumptions. The key assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit retirement plans were a 6.1% discount rate and an 8.5% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets as of December 31, 2007.  

 Discount Rate   

 The Company uses a laddered bond portfolio model to develop a discount rate assumption used to value the benefit obligations of its retirement plans. The Company follows paragraph 186 of Financial Accounting Standard 106 in developing this rate. The Company obtains information on high-quality corporate (AA rating or higher) bonds from a nationally recognized credit rating agency with maturities  

(44) 

that match the anticipated cash outflows of each plan. These bonds are then reviewed and outliers are discarded. The results of this analysis form the basis for the discount rate assumption used by the Company. A one percentage point reduction in the discount rate would have resulted in an increase in 2007 retirement plan expense of $4.6 million.    

 Return on Plan Assets   

 In establishing its expected return on plan assets assumption, the Company reviews its asset allocation and develops return assumptions based on different asset classes adjusting for plan operating expenses. Actual asset over/under performance compared to expected returns will respectively decrease/increase unrecognized loss. The change in the unrecognized loss will change amortization cost in upcoming periods. A one percentage point increase in the expected return on plan assets would have resulted in a decrease in 2007 pension expense of $2.7 million.   

 Current year net pension cost was $14.5 million, as compared with $14.6 in the prior year excluding the impact of the $0.7 million non-recurring CEO retirement charge in 2006. The Company estimates that 2008 net pension cost will be approximately $17.8 million.   

 Further information on the Company’s defined benefit retirement plan is provided in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.    

Accruals for Self-insurance Reserves   

 Accruals for self-insurance reserves (including workers’ compensation, auto and employee medical) are determined based on historical payment trends and claims history, along with current and estimated future economic conditions.   

  The Company is self-insured for professional liability claims arising in the normal course of business, generally related to the testing and reporting of laboratory test results. The Company records an accrual for known and incurred but not reported claims based on an actuarial assessment of the accrual driven by frequency and amounts of claims, which is performed at least annually.    

Income Taxes   

 The Company accounts for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability method. Under this method deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and for tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company does not recognize a tax benefit, unless the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, the Company recognizes a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that the Company believes is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized. The Company records interest and penalties in income tax expense.  

(45) 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS   

 The Company has made in this report, and from time to time may otherwise make in its public filings, press releases and discussions by Company management, forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition, as well as its strategic objectives. Some of these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking words such as “believes”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “seeks”, “approximately”, “intends”, “plans”, “estimates”, or “anticipates” or the negative of those words or other comparable terminology. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties and the Company claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results could differ materially from those currently anticipated due to a number of factors in addition to those discussed elsewhere herein and in the Company’s other public filings, press releases and discussions with Company management, including:   

 1.     changes in federal, state, local and third-party payer regulations or policies (or in the interpretation of current regulations) affecting governmental and third-party coverage or reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing;    

 2.     adverse results from investigations of clinical laboratories by the government, which may include significant monetary damages and/or exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs;    

 3.     loss or suspension of a license or imposition of a fine or penalties under, or future changes in, or interpretations of, the law or regulations of the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967, and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or those of Medicare, Medicaid, the False Claims Act or other federal, state or local agencies;    

 4.     failure to comply with the Federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration requirements and the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act, which may result in penalties and loss of licensure;    

 5.     failure to comply with HIPAA, including the failure to meet new NPI requirements, which could result in denial of claims and/or significant fines;    

 6.     failure of third-party payers to complete testing with the Company, or accept or remit transactions in HIPAA-required standard transaction and code set format (including a National Provider Identifier), could result in an interruption in the Company’s cash flow;    

 7.     increased competition, including competition from companies that do not comply with existing laws or regulations or otherwise disregard compliance standards in the industry;    

 8.     increased price competition, competitive bidding for laboratory tests and/or changes or reductions to fee schedules;    

 9.     changes in payer mix, including an increase in capitated managed-cost health care or the impact of a shift to consumer-driven health plans;    

 10.     failure to obtain and retain new customers and alliance partners, or a reduction in tests ordered or specimens submitted by existing customers;    

 11.     failure to retain or attract managed care business as a result of changes in business models, including new risk based or network approaches, or other changes in strategy or business models by managed care companies;    

 12.     failure to effectively manage newly acquired businesses and the cost related to such integration;    

 13.     adverse results in litigation matters;    

 14.     inability to attract and retain experienced and qualified personnel;    

(45) 

 15.     failure to maintain the Company’s days sales outstanding levels;    

 16.     decrease in credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s and/or Moody’s;    

 17.     failure to develop or acquire licenses for new or improved technologies, or if customers use new technologies to perform their own tests;    

 18.     inability to commercialize newly licensed tests or technologies or to obtain appropriate coverage or reimbursement for such tests, which could result in impairment in the value of certain capitalized licensing costs;    

 19.     inability to obtain and maintain adequate patent and other proprietary rights for protection of the Company’s products and services and successfully enforce the Company’s proprietary rights;    

 20.     the scope, validity and enforceability of patents and other proprietary rights held by third parties which might have an impact on the Company’s ability to develop, perform, or market the Company’s tests or operate its business;    

 21.     failure in the Company’s information technology systems resulting in an increase in testing turnaround time or billing processes or the failure to meet future regulatory or customer information technology and connectivity requirements;    

 22.     failure of the Company’s financial information systems resulting in failure to meet required financial reporting deadlines;    

 23.     failure of the Company’s disaster recovery plans to provide adequate protection against the interruption of business and/or to permit the recovery of business operations;    

 24.     business interruption or other impact on the business due to adverse weather (including hurricanes), fires and/or other natural disasters and terrorism or other criminal acts;    

 25.     liabilities that result from the inability to comply with new corporate governance requirements; and    

 26.     significant deterioration in the economy could negatively impact the Company’s testing volumes, cash collections and the availability of credit.    

(47) 

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK