PART I   

Item 1. BUSINESS   

 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings and its subsidiaries (the “Company”), headquartered in Burlington, North Carolina, is the second largest independent clinical laboratory company in the United States based on 2007 net revenues. Since the Company’s founding in 1971, it has grown into a national network of 37 primary laboratories and over 1,600 patient service centers along with a network of branches and STAT laboratories (which are laboratories that have the ability to perform certain routine tests quickly and report the results to the physician immediately). Through its national network of laboratories, the Company offers a broad range of clinical laboratory tests that are used by the medical profession in routine testing, patient diagnosis, and in the monitoring and treatment of disease. In addition, the Company has developed specialty testing businesses based on certain types of specialized testing capabilities and client requirements, such as oncology testing, HIV genotyping and phenotyping, diagnostic genetics and clinical trials.   

 With over 26,000 employees, the Company processes tests on more than 420,000 patient specimens daily and provides clinical laboratory testing services to clients in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and three provinces in Canada. Its clients include physicians, hospitals, managed care organizations, governmental agencies, large employers, pharmaceutical companies and other independent clinical laboratories that do not have the breadth of its testing capabilities. Several hundred of the Company’s tests are frequently used in general patient care by physicians to establish or support a diagnosis, to monitor treatment or to search for an otherwise undiagnosed condition. The most frequently-requested of these routine tests include blood chemistry analyses, urinalyses, blood cell counts, thyroid tests, Pap tests, HIV tests, microbiology cultures and procedures, and alcohol and other substance-abuse tests. The Company performs this core group of routine tests in each of its major laboratories using sophisticated and computerized instruments, with most results reported within 24 hours. In addition, the Company provides specialty testing services in the areas of allergy, clinical trials, diagnostic genetics, identity, infectious disease, oncology and occupational testing.   

 The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through the Media and Investor Relations section of the Company’s internet website at www.labcorp.com as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.   

 The Company is committed to providing the highest quality laboratory services to its clients in full compliance with all federal, state and local laws and regulations. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines ethics and compliance policies adopted by the Company to meet this commitment. These policies apply to all employees of the Company and its subsidiaries as well as the Company’s Board of Directors. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as the Charters for the Audit, Compensation, Ethics and Quality Assurance, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees, and the Company’s Corporate Governance Guidelines, are posted on the Company’s website www.labcorp.com. The Company has established a Compliance Action hotline (1-800-801-1005), which provides a confidential and anonymous method to report a possible violation of a LabCorp compliance policy or procedure, or a federal or state law or regulation; a HIPAA Privacy hotline (1-877-234-4722), which provides a confidential and anonymous method to report a possible violation of a HIPAA privacy, security or billing policy or procedure; and an Accounting hotline (1-866-469-6893), which provides a confidential and anonymous method to report a possible violation of internal accounting controls or auditing matters.    

The Clinical Laboratory Testing Industry   

 Laboratory tests and procedures are used generally by hospitals, physicians and other health care providers and commercial clients to assist in the diagnosis, evaluation, detection, therapy selection, monitoring and treatment of diseases and other medical conditions through the examination of substances in the blood, tissues and other specimens. Clinical laboratory testing is generally categorized as either clinical pathology testing, which is performed on body fluids including blood, or anatomical pathology testing, which is performed on histologic or cytologic samples (e.g., tissue and other samples, including human cells). Clinical and anatomical pathology procedures are frequently ordered as part of regular  

(4) 

 physician office visits and hospital admissions in connection with the diagnosis and treatment of illnesses. Certain of these tests and procedures are used in the diagnosis and management of a wide variety of medical conditions such as cancer, AIDS, endocrine disorders, cardiac disorders and genetic disease.   

 The clinical laboratory industry consists primarily of three types of providers: hospital-based laboratories, physician-office laboratories and independent clinical laboratories, such as those owned by the Company. The Company believes that in 2007 the entire United States clinical laboratory testing industry had revenues of approximately $50 billion; approximately 54% of such revenues were attributable to hospital-affiliated laboratories, approximately 41% were attributable to independent clinical laboratories and others, and approximately 5% were attributable to physicians in their offices and laboratories. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) of the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) has estimated that in 2007 there were approximately 5,350 independent clinical laboratories in the United States.   

 The clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive. There are presently two major national independent clinical laboratories: the Company and Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (“Quest”), which had approximately $6.7 billion in revenues from clinical laboratory testing in 2007. The remaining estimated $39 billion of testing performed in the United States is performed by hospitals (approximately $27 billion) and regional, specialty, and physicians laboratories (approximately $12 billion). In addition to Quest, the Company competes with many smaller independent clinical and anatomical laboratories as well as laboratories owned by hospitals and physicians. The Company believes that health care providers in selecting a laboratory often use the following factors, among others:  

  •   accuracy, timeliness and consistency in reporting test results; 

  •   reputation of the laboratory in the medical community or field of specialty;   

  •   service capability and convenience offered by the laboratory;   

  •   number and type of tests performed;  

  •   connectivity solutions offered; and  

  •   pricing of the laboratory’s test services.   

 The Company believes that it competes favorably with its principal competitors in each of these areas and is currently implementing strategies to improve its competitive position.  

 The Company believes that large scale consolidation has decelerated, but will continue in the clinical laboratory testing business. In addition, the Company believes that it and the other large independent clinical laboratory testing companies will be able to increase their share of the overall clinical laboratory testing market due to a number of external factors including cost efficiencies afforded by large-scale automated testing, reimbursement reductions and the growth of managed health care entities which require cost efficient testing services and large service networks. In addition, legal restrictions on physician referrals and their ownership of laboratories as well as increased regulation of laboratories are expected to contribute to the continuing consolidation of the industry.    

Effect of Market Changes on the Clinical Laboratory Business   

 Many market-based changes in the clinical laboratory business have occurred over the past ten years, primarily as a result of the shift away from traditional, fee-for-service medicine to managed-cost health care. The growth of the managed care sector and consolidation of managed care companies present various challenges and opportunities to the Company and other independent clinical laboratories. During 2006, the Company signed a ten-year agreement with UnitedHealthcare to become its exclusive national laboratory. This agreement represents an industry first in terms of its length and exclusivity at a national level. The various managed care organizations (“MCOs”) have different contracting philosophies. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and negotiate discounts to the fees charged by such laboratories. Other MCOs allow any willing provider to be contracted at specified discounted rates. The Company’s ability to attract and retain managed care clients is critical given these new and evolving models. In addition, some MCOs have used capitated payment contracts in an attempt to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated payment contract, the clinical laboratory and the managed care organization agree to a per member, per month payment to pay for all  

(5) 

authorized laboratory tests ordered during the month by the physician for the members, regardless of the number or cost of the tests actually performed. The Company makes significant efforts to ensure that esoteric tests (which are more sophisticated tests used to obtain information not provided by routine tests and generally involve a higher level of complexity and more substantial human involvement than routine tests) are excluded from capitated arrangements and therefore paid for separately by the managed care organization. Capitated payment contracts shift the risks of additional testing beyond that covered by the capitated payment to the clinical laboratory. For the year ended December 31, 2007, such capitated contracts accounted for approximately $167.5 million, or 4.1%, of the Company’s net sales.   

 In addition, Medicare (which principally services patients 65 and older), Medicaid (which principally services low-income patients) and insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of health care services. Measures to regulate health care delivery in general and clinical laboratories in particular have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by increasing complexity and adding new regulatory and administrative requirements. From time to time, Congress has also considered changes to the Medicare fee schedules, and the Company believes that pressure to reduce reimbursement for Medicare services will continue. Similar pressure for reductions in the reimbursement rates of other third-party payers is likely to occur as well.   

 Despite the potential market changes discussed above, the Company believes that the volume of clinical laboratory testing will be positively influenced by several factors, including increased knowledge of the human genome leading to an enhanced appreciation of the value of gene-based diagnostic assays and the development of new therapeutics that have a “companion diagnostic” to help identify the sub-set of the population for whom it is effective or who may suffer adverse events.   

 The Company believes its enhanced esoteric menu and larger geographic footprint provides a strong platform for growth. Additional factors which may lead to future volume growth include an increase in the number and types of tests which are readily available (due to advances in technology and increased cost efficiencies) for testing of cancer and infectious diseases and the general aging of the population in the United States. The impact of these factors is expected to be partially offset by declines in volume as a result of increased controls over the utilization of laboratory services by Medicare and other third-party payers, particularly managed care organizations. In addition, movement by patients into consumer driven health plans may have an impact on the utilization of laboratory testing.    

Company Strategy   

 The Company’s strategic plan focuses on three critical priorities that provide maximum opportunity for continued growth and profitability. They are scientific differentiation, managed care and customer service.   

 Scientific Differentiation   

 The Company believes that it has differentiated itself from its competition and positioned itself for continued strong growth by building a leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies. This leadership position enables the Company to provide a broad menu of testing services in the genetics and cancer markets, which it believes represents two of the most significant areas of future growth in the clinical laboratory industry. The Company’s strategic objective is to expand its leadership position in genomic and other advanced testing technologies to deliver outstanding and innovative clinical testing services to patients and physicians nationwide.   

 The Company’s licensing of ovarian cancer technology from Yale University in 2006 and lung cancer technology from Duke University in 2008, positions the Company with a pipeline of innovation from two of the country’s leading universities.   

 As the promise of genomic medicine begins to be fulfilled with the introduction of new therapeutics that have associated “companion” diagnostics to identify targeted or “at-risk” subsets of the population, guide dosing strategies, etc., the Company is well positioned to continue to leverage its position as the scientific leader in the clinical laboratory industry. In 2007, the Company announced a partnership with ARCA Discovery to commercialize a companion diagnostic for the first personalized cardiovascular  

(6) 

therapy, Bucindolol, a genetically-targeted beta-blocker. The new test will identify patients more likely to have an adverse drug event, as well as patients more likely to have a positive response to the drug. Additionally, in January 2008, the Company announced a definitive agreement to acquire Tandem Labs, a leading bioanalytical and immunoanalytical clinical research testing laboratory supporting pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with their discovery, preclinical and clinical drug development programs. With broad scientific expertise and clinical trial capabilities, the Company can provide assistance in the development and validation of these companion diagnostics as well as an international infrastructure to allow them to be broadly used within the market.   

 Managed Care   

 Strong managed care partnerships are key to the Company, both to secure appropriate payment for its services and as distribution channels for the Company’s new and existing tests. They also contribute to the Company’s priorities as it extends its scientific leadership priorities. The Company has devoted substantial business and scientific resources to its managed care customers to ensure that it is providing this growing segment with the creative solutions and quality services that they expect.   

 The Company has worked to develop deeper relationships with managed care companies around the provision and analysis of laboratory data. The Company provides managed care companies access to LabCorp DataLink, a “self-service” on-line tool that allows managed care companies to analyze data on their enrollees nationwide. The Company has also developed numerous data sharing arrangements with managed care companies to support their efforts in disease management and other initiatives focused on improving care and decreasing costs.   

 The Company’s growing national presence provides a number of significant benefits and it intends to maintain and continue to build this presence. The Company’s national network enables it to provide high-quality services to physicians, hospitals, managed care organizations and other customers across the United States. The Company’s managed care contracts with Cigna, Humana, UnitedHealthcare, and Wellpoint demonstrate the importance of delivering services on a nationwide basis, which was a factor in the selection of the Company by UnitedHealthcare as its exclusive national laboratory. Since the signing of the UnitedHealthcare contract, the Company has expanded its national network by adding over 400 new patient service centers. The Company’s scale also provides it with significant cost structure advantages, particularly related to supply and other operating costs.   

 Customer Service   

 Providing exceptional customer service is one of the Company’s highest priorities. Customer retention requires understanding the unique needs and challenges that face each of the Company’s customer segments and providing solutions that address those needs. The Company continually seeks to improve its offerings in physician education tools, integrated information management solutions, improved customer care initiatives and innovative patient information guides. These customer retention activities are designed to further the Company’s success in all aspects of its business.   

 The Company offers a variety of connectivity solutions including eLabCorp, a web-based connectivity solution. The Company’s connectivity platform integrates easily with a wide variety of existing electronic medical records systems, practice management systems, and procedure writing systems, allowing physicians to access testing services without changing the software systems they use for the rest of their practice needs. As part of its commitment to expand patient access in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Company entered a partnership with Duane Reade, Inc. (“Duane Reade”) to locate patient service centers in certain Duane Reade drugstores in the New York metropolitan area. The Company believes that the addition of these and other new access points will continue to make the Company the most convenient laboratory for doctors and their patients.  

(7) 

Laboratory Testing Operations and Services   

 The Company has a national network of primary laboratories, branches, patient service centers and STAT laboratories. A branch is a central facility which collects specimens in a region for shipment to one of the Company’s laboratories for testing. A branch is also frequently used as a base for sales and distribution staff. Generally, a patient service center is a facility maintained by the Company to serve the patients of physicians in a medical professional building or other strategic location. The patient service center collects the specimens as requested by the physician. The specimens are sent, principally through the Company’s in-house courier system (and, to a lesser extent, through independent couriers), to one of the Company’s primary testing facilities for testing. Some of the Company’s patient service centers also function as STAT labs, which are laboratories that have the ability to perform certain routine tests quickly and report results to the physician immediately. Patient specimens are typically delivered to the Company accompanied by a test request form. These forms, which are completed by the client or transcribed by a Company patient service technician from a client order, indicate the tests to be performed and provide the necessary billing information.   

 Each specimen and related request form is checked for completeness and then given a unique identification number. The unique identification number assigned to each specimen helps to ensure that the results are attributed to the correct patient. The test request forms are sent to a data entry operator who ensures that a file is established for each patient and the necessary testing and billing information is entered. Once this information is entered into the software system, the tests are performed and the results are entered through EDI interface or manually, depending upon the tests and the type of equipment involved. Most of the Company’s automated testing equipment is connected to the Company’s information systems. Most routine testing is completed by early the next morning and test results are in most cases electronically delivered to clients via smart printers, personal computer-based products or computer interfaces.    

Testing Services   

 Routine Testing   

 The Company offers a broad range of clinical laboratory tests and procedures. Several hundred of these are frequently used in general patient care by physicians to establish or support a diagnosis, to monitor treatment or medication, or to search for an otherwise undiagnosed condition. The most frequently requested tests include blood chemistry analyses, thyroid tests, urinalyses, blood cell counts, Pap tests, HIV tests, microbiology cultures and procedures and alcohol and other substance-abuse tests. These routine procedures are most often used by physicians in their outpatient office practices. Physicians may elect to send such procedures to an independent laboratory or they may choose to establish their own laboratory to perform some of the tests.   

 The Company performs this core group of routine tests in each of its primary laboratories, which constitutes a majority of the testing performed by the Company. The Company generally performs and reports most routine procedures within 24 hours, utilizing a variety of sophisticated and computerized laboratory testing instruments.   

 Specialty Testing   

 While the information provided by many routine tests may be used by nearly all physicians, regardless of specialty, many other procedures are more specialized in nature. One of the growth strategies of the Company is the continued expansion of its specialty testing businesses, which involve certain types of unique testing capabilities and/or client requirements. In general, the specialty testing businesses serve two market segments: (i) markets that are not typically served by the clinical testing laboratory; and (ii) markets which are served by the clinical testing laboratory and offer the possibility of adding related services (such as clinical trials or occupational drug testing) from the same supplier. The Company’s research and development group continually seeks new and improved technologies for early diagnosis. For example, the Company’s Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology (“CMBP”) is a leader in molecular diagnostics and polymerase chain reaction (“PCR”) technologies, which are often able to provide earlier and more reliable information regarding HIV, genetic diseases, cancer and many other viral and bacterial diseases. In August 2000, the Company acquired National Genetics Institute, Inc.  

(8) 

(“NGI”), a leader in the development of PCR assays for Hepatitis C (“HCV”). In June 2001, the Company acquired Viro-Med Laboratories, Inc., which offers molecular microbial testing using real time PCR platforms. In January 2003, the Company acquired DIANON Systems, Inc. a leader in anatomic pathology testing. In February 2005, the Company acquired US LABS, a leader in anatomic pathology and oncology testing services. In May 2005, the Company acquired Esoterix, a leading provider of specialty reference testing. In November 2006, the Company acquired Litholink Corporation (“Litholink”), a nationally-recognized kidney stone analysis laboratory known for its extensive stone management program. Management believes these technologies may represent a significant savings to the healthcare system either by increasing the detection of early stage (treatable) diseases or by more effectively managing chronic disease conditions. The following are specialty testing businesses in which the Company offers testing and related services:   

    Infectious Disease. The Company provides complete viral load testing as well as HIV genotyping and phenotyping. In 2000, the Company added HIV GenoSure™ to its portfolio of HIV resistance testing services. The Company’s use of this leading-edge technology puts it in the forefront of HIV drug resistance testing, one of the most important issues surrounding the treatment of HIV. In 2007, the Company became the first commercial laboratory to offer fully automated real-time HIV testing from Roche Diagnostics. Additionally, the Company provides comprehensive testing for HCV including both PCR testing and genotyping at CMBP, NGI and Viro-Med.    

     Diagnostic Genetics. The Company offers cytogenetic, molecular cytogenetic, biochemical and molecular genetic tests. In 2007, the Company added integrated and sequential prenatal screening for more sensitive assessment of Down syndrome risk. Additionally, in January 2008, the Company announced the introduction of the Affymetrix whole genome microarray technology offering enhanced detection of the etiology of mental retardation, developmental delay and autism.    

    Oncology Testing. The Company offers an extensive series of testing technologies that aid in diagnosing and monitoring certain cancers and predicting the outcome of certain treatments. The acquisitions of Dianon, US LABS and Esoterix further expanded the Company’s capabilities in specialized pathology; including hematopathology, dermatopathology and uropathology.   

    Clinical Trials Testing. The Company regularly performs clinical laboratory testing for pharmaceutical companies conducting clinical research trials on new drugs. This testing often involves periodic testing of patients participating in the trial over several years.   

    Identity Testing. The Company provides forensic identity testing used in connection with criminal proceedings and parentage evaluation services which are used to assist in determining parentage for child support enforcement proceedings and determining genetic relationships for immigration purposes. Parentage testing involves the evaluation of immunological and genetic markers in specimens obtained from the child, the mother and the alleged father. The Company also provides testing services in reconstruction cases, which assist in determining parentage without the presence of the parent in question. Management believes the Company is now the largest provider of identity testing services in the United States.   

    Allergy Testing. The Company offers an extensive range of allergen testing services as well as computerized analysis and a treatment program that enables physicians to diagnose and treat many kinds of allergic disorders.   

    Occupational Testing Services. The Company provides urine and blood testing services for the detection of drug and alcohol abuse for private and government customers. These testing services are designed to produce “forensic” quality test results that satisfy the rigorous requirements for admissibility as evidence in legal proceedings. The Company also provides other analytical testing and a variety of management support services.    

 The specialized testing services noted above, as well as other complex procedures, are sent to designated facilities where the Company has concentrated the people, instruments and related resources for performing these procedures so that quality and efficiency can be most effectively monitored. CMBP, NGI, Viro-Med, Dianon, US LABS and Esoterix also specialize in new test development and related education and training.  

(9) 

 Development of New Tests   

 Advances in medicine have begun to fundamentally change diagnostic testing, and new tests are allowing clinical laboratories to provide unprecedented amounts of health-related information to physicians and patients. Significant new tests introduced over the past several years include a gene-based test for human papillomavirus as well as tests for HIV phenotyping and cystic fibrosis. As science continues to advance, the Company expects new testing technologies to emerge; therefore, it intends to continue to invest in advanced testing capabilities so that it can remain on the cutting edge of diagnostic laboratory testing. The Company has added, and expects to continue to add, new testing technologies and capabilities through a combination of internal development initiatives, technology licensing and partnership transactions and selected business acquisitions. Through its national sales force, the Company rapidly introduces new testing technologies to physician customers. This differentiation is important in the retention and growth of business.   

 In 2007, the Company continued its long-standing tradition of scientific vision and leadership with the introduction of more than 40 significant test menu and automation enhancements. The Company’s focus is specifically in areas where novel diagnostic assays provide actionable results for unmet clinical needs. Also, the Company introduced six new companion diagnostic tests, providing clinicians with innovative ways to avoid adverse drug reactions in their patients. These tests are particularly important for patients with breast and other cancers, HIV and Hepatitis B. In October 2007, the Company entered into a strategic research agreement with Medco Health Solutions, Inc. to advance the field of pharmacogenomics by exploring the use of personal genetics in patients taking the drug tamoxifen.   

 Additionally, in 2008, the Company announced an exclusive licensing agreement with Duke University to commercialize Duke’s new blood-based assay for early detection of lung cancer.   

 The Company continued its industry leadership in gene-based and esoteric testing, generating $1.4 billion in revenue, and growing at more than 12 percent. The Company has pioneered a cheek swab format for most genetic tests, making them easier to perform and sparing patients the necessity of blood draws. The Company also introduced test menu enhancements in areas such as autism, oncology, endocrinology, coagulation and infectious diseases.   

 The Company continued to expand its capabilities in mass spectrometry, highlighted by a menu of 41 novel assays in the area of endocrinology. Additionally, the Company’s programs in biochemical genetics, oncology and therapeutic drug monitoring take advantage of its mass spectrometry capabilities at both its major North Carolina labs, the Center for Esoteric Testing and CMBP.   

 Continuing the Company’s leadership in scientific innovation, on February 13, 2007, the Company announced a partnership with ARCA Discovery to commercialize a companion diagnostic for the first personalized cardiovascular therapy, Bucindolol, a genetically-targeted beta-blocker. The new test will identify patients more likely to have an adverse drug event, as well as patients more likely to have a positive response to the drug. Additionally, in January 2008, the Company announced a definitive agreement to acquire Tandem Labs, a leading bioanalytical and immunoanalytical clinical research testing laboratory supporting pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies with their discovery, preclinical and clinical drug development programs. Both events further advance the Company’s leadership position in the laboratory and drug development industries, and solidify its position as the premier laboratory in the field of companion diagnostics.    

Clients   

 The Company provides testing services to a broad range of health care providers. During the year ended December 31, 2007, no client or group of clients under the same contract accounted for more than nine percent of the Company’s net sales. The primary client groups serviced by the Company include:  

(10) 

 Independent Physicians and Physician Groups   

 Physicians requiring testing for their patients are one of the Company’s primary sources of testing services. Fees for clinical laboratory testing services rendered for these physicians are billed either to the physician, to the patient or the patient’s third-party payer such as an insurance company, Medicare or Medicaid. Billings are typically on a fee-for-service basis. If the billings are to the physician, they are based on a customer fee schedule and are subject to negotiation. Otherwise, the patient or third-party payer is billed at the laboratory’s patient fee schedule, subject to third-party payer limitations and negotiation by physicians on behalf of their patients. Revenues received from Medicare and Medicaid billings are based on government-set fee schedules and reimbursement rules.   

 Hospitals   

 The Company provides hospitals with services ranging from routine and specialty testing to contract management services. Hospitals generally maintain an on-site laboratory to perform immediately needed testing of patients receiving care. However, they also refer less time sensitive procedures, less frequently needed procedures and highly specialized procedures to outside facilities, including independent clinical laboratories and larger medical centers. The Company typically charges hospitals for any such tests on a fee-for-service basis which is derived from the Company’s customer fee schedule. Fees for management services are billed monthly at contractually agreed-upon rates.   

 Managed Care Organizations   

 The Company serves many MCOs. The various MCOs have certain different contracting philosophies. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and negotiate discounts to the fees charged by such laboratories. Other MCOs allow any willing provider to be contracted at specified discounted rates. The majority of the Company’s managed care testing is negotiated on a fee-for-service basis. Testing is sometimes reimbursed on a capitated basis for MCOs. Under a capitated payment contract, the Company agrees to perform certain laboratory tests during a given month for which the MCO agrees to pay a flat monthly fee for each covered member. The tests covered under agreements of this type are negotiated for each contract, but usually include routine tests and exclude highly specialized tests. Many of the national and large regional MCOs prefer to use large independent clinical labs such as the Company because the MCOs can monitor service and performance on a national basis.   

 Other Institutions   

 The Company serves other institutions, including government agencies, large employers and other independent clinical laboratories that do not have the breadth of the Company’s testing capabilities. The institutions typically pay on a negotiated fee-for-service basis.    

Payers   

 Testing services are billed to private patients, Medicare, Medicaid, commercial clients, MCOs and other insurance companies. Tests ordered by a physician may be billed to different payers depending on the medical insurance benefits of a particular patient. Most testing services are billed to a party other than the physician or other authorized person who ordered the test. For the year ended December 31, 2007, accessions (based on the total volume of accessions) and average revenue per accession by payer are as follows:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 A portion of the managed care fee-for-service revenues are collectible from patients in the form of deductibles, copayments and coinsurance. 

(11) 

Investments in Joint Venture Partnerships   

 In connection with the acquisition of Dynacare in 2002, the Company holds investments in three joint venture partnerships, located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Ontario, Canada; and Alberta, Canada. These businesses represent partnership agreements between Dynacare and other independent diagnostic laboratory investors. Under these agreements, all partners share in the profits and losses of the businesses in proportion to their respective ownership percentages. All partners are actively involved in the major business decisions made by each joint venture.   

 Each of the Canadian partnerships own licenses to conduct diagnostic testing services in their respective provinces. Substantially all of their revenues are received as reimbursement from the provincial governments’ health care programs. While the Canadian licenses guarantee the joint ventures the ability to conduct diagnostic testing in their respective provinces, they do not guarantee that the provincial governments will continue to reimburse diagnostic laboratory testing at current levels. If the provincial governments decide to limit or reduce their reimbursement of laboratory diagnostic services, it could have a negative impact on the profits and cash flows the Company derives from these investments as well as possibly impair the value assigned by the Company to the Canadian joint ventures.  

 Effective January 1, 2008, the Company acquired additional partnership units in its Ontario, Canada joint venture, bringing the Company’s percentage interest owned up to 85.6%. Concurrent with this acquisition, the terms of the joint venture’s partnership agreement were amended. Based upon the amended terms of this agreement, the Company began including the consolidated operating results, financial position and cash flows of the Ontario, Canada joint venture in the Company’s consolidated financial statements on January 1, 2008. The amended joint venture’s partnership agreement also enables the minority interest to put the remaining partnership units to the Company in defined future periods, at an initial amount equal to the consideration paid by the Company in 2008, and subject to adjustment based on market value formulas contained in the agreement.    

Sales, Marketing and Client Service   

 The Company offers its services through a sales force focused on serving the specific needs of customers in different market segments. These market segments generally include Specialty Cancer, Hospitals and Primary Care. The Company’s sales force is compensated through a combination of salaries, commissions and bonuses, at levels commensurate with each individual’s qualifications, performance and responsibilities. Commissions are primarily based upon the individual’s ability to generate and retain business for the Company from new and existing customers.   

 The Company believes that the clinical laboratory service business is shifting away from the traditional direct sales structure to one in which the purchasing decisions for laboratory services are increasingly being made by managed care organizations, insurance plans, employers and even by patients themselves. In view of these changes, the Company has adapted its sales and marketing structure to more appropriately address the opportunities presented by this shift.   

 The Company competes primarily on the basis of the quality of its testing, innovation of its services, convenience of its comprehensive test menu, and access points throughout the nation.    

Information Systems   

 The Company has developed and implemented management information systems that support the operations of the company as well as strategically position the Company for long term growth in light of evolving market trends around the utilization of laboratory data by its customers.   

 The Company benefits from having a common laboratory system and a common billing system, which are both maintained in Burlington, North Carolina. With approximately 93% of the Company’s revenue processed by these systems, this centralized IS platform provides tremendous operational efficiencies for the Company. It also represents a valuable data platform that allows the Company to provide consistent, structured, and standardized laboratory results to its customers. The Company believes that this standardized laboratory data will be even more important and valuable to its customers as they continue to develop and refine disease management tools and capabilities that provide improved care and reduced  

(12) 

costs.   

 The creation of new Regional Health Information Organizations (“RHIOs”) throughout the country and the continued evolution of federally funded programs such as the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (“ONCHIT”) also speak to a broader trend around the utilization of health care data by new entities. The Company’s data platform positions it well to participate in these initiatives and others as they evolve.    

Billing   

 Billing for laboratory services is a complicated process involving many different payers such as doctors, patients, insurance companies, Medicare, Medicaid and employer groups, all of which have different billing requirements. In addition, billing process arrangements with third-party administrators and disputes regarding responsible parties further complicate the billing process.   

 The Company utilizes a centralized billing system in the collection of substantially all of its accounts receivable. This system generates bills to customers based on the payer type. Client billing is typically generated monthly, whereas patient and third-party billing are typically generated daily. Agings of accounts receivable are then monitored by billing personnel and re-bills and follow-up activities are conducted as necessary. Bad debt expense is recorded within selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales considered necessary to maintain the allowance for doubtful accounts at an appropriate level, based on the Company’s experience with its accounts receivable. The Company writes off accounts against the allowance for doubtful accounts when they are deemed to be uncollectible. For client billing, accounts are written off when all reasonable collection efforts prove to be unsuccessful. Patient accounts are written off after the normal dunning cycle has occurred and the account has been transferred to a third-party collection agency. Third-party and managed care accounts are written off when they exceed the payer’s timely filing limits.   

 A portion of the Company’s bad debt expense is the result of non-credit related issues that slow the billing process, such as missing or incorrect billing information on requisitions. The Company generally performs the requested tests and returns the test results regardless of whether billing information is incorrect or incomplete. The Company subsequently attempts to obtain any missing information or rectify any incorrect billing information received from the health care provider. The Company believes that this experience is similar to that of its primary competitors. The Company continues to focus on a number of process initiatives aimed at reducing the impact of these non-credit related issues by:   

  •  reducing the number of requisitions received that are missing billing information. This involves counting the number of clinical requisitions received with missing information by ordering client, as well as determining what specific information was not provided. The Company then identifies root causes of why the information was missing and takes steps to ensure that information is provided in the future. These steps include re-educating clients as to what information is needed in order for the Company to bill and collect for the test;    

  •  installing personal computer based products in client offices and Company locations to help with the accuracy and completeness of billing information captured on the front-end; and    

  •  developing and implementing enhanced eligibility checking to compare information to payer records before billing.    

 In addition to the non-credit issues, another component of the Company’s bad debt expense is related to accounts receivable from patients. This portion of the Company’s bad debt expense is from the patient’s unwillingness or inability to pay. The Company also remains focused on process initiatives to reduce the negative impact of patient accounts receivable by:   

  •  collecting payment at the time of service;    

  •  increasing training for billing personnel to improve collections during phone calls; and    

  •  reviewing bill design and frequency.    

(13) 

Quality   

 The Company has established a comprehensive quality assurance program for its laboratories and other facilities designed to help assure accurate and timely test results. In addition to the compulsory external inspections and proficiency programs required by CMS and other regulatory agencies, systems and procedures are in place to emphasize and monitor quality assurance. All of the Company’s regional laboratories are subject to on-site evaluations, the College of American Pathologists (“CAP”) proficiency testing program, state surveys and the Company’s own internal quality control programs.   

 Customer Interaction. Processes to continually improve the customers’ experience with the Company are essential. Use of technology in the Company’s patient service centers will help reduce patient wait times by expediting patient registration and the information collection process.   

 Specimen Management. The use of logistics and specimen tracking technology allows the timely transportation, validation and storage of specimens. The Company is continually improving its ability to timely collect specimens from all locations, and its ability to ensure timely transportation and tracking of specimens from all locations.   

 Quality Control. The Company regularly performs quality control testing by running quality control samples with known values at the same time as patient samples are submitted for testing. Quality control sample test results for interfaced automated clinical tests are entered into the Company’s computererized quality control database. This allows for real-time monitoring for any statistically and clinically significant analytical differences, and enables technologists and technicians to take immediate and appropriate corrective action prior to release of patient results.   

 Internal Proficiency Testing. The Company has an extensive voluntary proficiency testing program in which each laboratory receives samples to test. This quarterly internal proficiency program serves to test the Company’s analytical and post analytical phases of laboratory testing service including order entry, accessioning systems, accuracy, precision of its testing protocols, technologist/technician performance, and quality assurance reporting checks. This program serves to supplement the external proficiency programs supplied by the laboratory accrediting agencies.   

 External Proficiency/Accreditation. The Company participates in numerous externally-administered, quality surveillance programs, including the CAP program. CAP is an independent non-governmental organization of board-certified pathologists which offers an accreditation program to which laboratories can voluntarily subscribe. CAP has been accredited by CMS to inspect clinical laboratories to determine adherence to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 1967 and the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 standards. A laboratory’s receipt of accreditation by CAP satisfies the CMS requirement for participation in proficiency testing programs administered by an external source. The CAP program involves both on-site inspections of the laboratory and participation in CAP’s proficiency testing program for all categories in which the laboratory is accredited. All of the Company’s major laboratories are accredited by CAP.   

 Quality encompasses many other facets of the Company’s service, such as turnaround time, client service, patient satisfaction, and billing. The Company’s quality assessment (“QA”) program includes measures that compare its current performance against desired performance goals detailed in its quality plan. Using quality assessment techniques, the Company’s laboratories employ a variety of programs to monitor critical aspects of service to its clients and patients.   

 The Company’s forensic crime laboratory, located at Research Triangle Park, NC, is accredited by the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors, Laboratory Accreditation Board (“ASCLD/LAB”) in the category of DNA testing. Under the Crime Laboratory Accreditation Program managed by the ASCLD/LAB, a crime laboratory undergoes a comprehensive and in-depth inspection to demonstrate that its management, operations, employees, procedures and instruments, physical plant, and security and personnel safety procedures meet stringent quality standards. The Company is one of 336 ASCLD accredited crime laboratories worldwide and is one of only 24 private crime laboratories holding the accreditation. Accreditation is granted for a period of five years provided that a laboratory continues to meet the standards during that period.  

(14) 

Employees   

 As of January 31, 2008, the Company had over 26,000 full-time equivalent employees. Subsidiaries of the Company have three collective bargaining agreements (“CBA”) which cover approximately 706 employees. In 2007, the Company successfully concluded the renewal of one CBA and in 2008 the Company will be negotiating the terms of a second CBA that expires in May. The Company’s success is highly dependent on its ability to attract and retain qualified employees, and the Company believes that it has good overall relationships with its employees.    

Regulation and Reimbursement   

 General   

 The clinical laboratory industry is subject to significant governmental regulation at the federal, state and local levels. As described below, these regulations concern licensure and operation of clinical laboratories, payment for laboratory services, health care fraud and abuse, security and confidentiality of health information, quality, and environmental and occupational safety.   

 Regulation of Clinical Laboratories   

 The Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988 (“CLIA”) extended federal oversight to virtually all clinical laboratories by requiring that they be certified by the federal government or by a federally-approved accreditation agency. CLIA requires that all clinical laboratories meet quality assurance, quality control and personnel standards. Laboratories also must undergo proficiency testing and are subject to inspections.   

 Standards for testing under CLIA are based on the complexity of the tests performed by the laboratory, with tests classified as either “high complexity,” “moderate complexity,” or “waived.” Laboratories performing high complexity testing are required to meet more stringent requirements than moderate complexity laboratories. Laboratories performing only waived tests, which are tests determined by the Food and Drug Administration to have a low potential for error and requiring little oversight, may apply for a certificate of waiver exempting them from most of the requirements of CLIA. All major and many smaller Company facilities hold CLIA certificates to perform high complexity testing. The Company’s remaining smaller testing sites hold CLIA certificates to perform moderate complexity testing or a certificate of waiver. The sanctions for failure to comply with CLIA requirements include suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, cancellation or suspension of the laboratory’s approval to receive Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. The loss or suspension of a CLIA certification, imposition of a fine or other penalties, or future changes in the CLIA law or regulations (or interpretation of the law or regulations) could have a material adverse effect on the Company.   

 On July 26, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) issued Draft Guidance for Industry, Clinical Laboratories, and FDA Staff: In Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays (“the Draft Guidance”). The Draft Guidance announces that devices deemed In Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays (“IVDMIAs”) are Class II or Class III devices requiring, among other things, premarket notification clearance or premarket approval from FDA. This guidance would change the agency’s historical practice regarding regulation of certain laboratory-developed tests. There are other regulatory and legislative proposals that would increase general FDA oversight of clinical laboratories and laboratory developed tests. The outcome and ultimate impact of such proposals on the business is difficult to predict at this time.   

 The Company is also subject to state and local laboratory regulation. CLIA provides that a state may adopt laboratory regulations different from or more stringent than those under federal law, and a number of states have implemented their own laboratory regulatory schemes. State laws may require that laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls, or require maintenance of certain records.   

 The Company believes that it is in compliance with all applicable laboratory requirements, and the Company’s laboratories have continuing programs to ensure that their operations meet all such regulatory  

(15) 

requirements, but no assurances can be given that the Company’s laboratories will pass all future licensure or certification inspections.   

 Payment for Clinical Laboratory Services   

 In 2007, the Company derived approximately 18.3% of its net sales directly from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, the Company’s other business depends significantly on continued participation in these programs and in other government healthcare programs, because clients often want a single laboratory to perform all of their testing services. In recent years, both governmental and private sector payers have made efforts to contain or reduce health care costs, including reducing reimbursement for clinical laboratory services.   

 Reimbursement under the Medicare program for clinical diagnostic laboratory services is subject to a clinical laboratory fee schedule that sets the maximum amount payable in each Medicare carrier’s jurisdiction. This clinical laboratory fee schedule is updated annually. Laboratories bill the program directly for covered tests performed on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries. State Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more than the Medicare fee schedule limit for clinical laboratory services furnished to Medicaid recipients.   

 Payment under the fee schedule has been limited from year to year by Congressional action, including imposition of national limitation amounts and freezes on the otherwise applicable annual Consumer Price Index (“CPI”) updates. For most diagnostic lab tests, the national limitation is now 74% of the national median of all local fee schedules established for each test. Under a provision of the Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (“BIPA”), the cap is set at 100% of the median for tests performed after January 1, 2001 that the Secretary determines are new tests for which no limitation amount has previously been established.   

 Following a five year freeze on CPI updates to the clinical lab fee schedule, there was a 1.19% increase in the fee schedule in 2003. In late 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) again imposed a freeze in the CPI update of the clinical lab fee schedule for 2004 through 2008.   

 Separate from clinical diagnostic laboratory services, which generally are reimbursed under the Medicare laboratory fee schedule, many pathology services are reimbursed under the Medicare physician fee schedule. The physician fee schedule assigns relative value units to each procedure or service, and a conversion factor is applied to calculate the reimbursement. The physician fee schedule is also subject to adjustment on an annual basis. The formula used to calculate the fee schedule conversion factor resulted in significant decreases in payment for most physician services since 2003. However, since that time Congress has intervened repeatedly to prevent these payment reductions, and the conversion factor has been increased or frozen for the subsequent year. Facing yet another expected decrease in 2008, Congress acted to freeze rates at the 2007 level through June 2008, at which point Congress will have to act again or the payment rates will decrease. Decreases are expected to continue in future years unless Congress acts to change the formula used to calculate the fee schedule or continues to mandate freezes or increases each year.   

 The MMA also included a provision requiring CMS to conduct a demonstration program on using competitive acquisition for certain clinical lab tests to determine whether competitive bidding can be used to provide lab services at reduced cost to Medicare. The first demonstration project is currently scheduled to begin on July 1, 2008 for the greater San Diego, California area. The Company has submitted the required bid information but certain local hospitals and laboratories have filed suit in Federal District Court in San Diego to prevent the existing program from going forward until CMS has complied with the Administrative Procedures Act and has addressed other deficiencies in the current design of the program. Payment reductions from widespread use of competitive acquisition, if implemented for clinical lab services, could have a significant effect on the clinical laboratory industry and the Company. In addition, some States have initiated efforts to establish competitive bidding processes for the provision of laboratory services under the State Medicaid program.   

 Because a significant portion of the Company’s costs are relatively fixed, Medicare, Medicaid and other government program payment reductions could have a direct adverse affect on the Company’s net earnings and cash flows, but the Company cannot predict whether changes that will result in such  

(16) 

reductions will be implemented.   

 Congressional action in 1997 required HHS to adopt uniform coverage, administration and payment policies for many of the most commonly performed lab tests using a negotiated rulemaking process. Consensus was reached by the negotiated rulemaking committee which, among other things, established uniform policies limiting Medicare coverage for certain tests to patients with specified medical conditions or diagnoses, replacing local Medicare coverage policies which varied around the country. Since the final rules generally became effective in 2002, the use of uniform policies has improved the Company’s ability to obtain necessary billing information in some cases, but Medicare, Medicaid and private payer diagnosis code requirements continue to negatively impact the Company’s ability to be paid for some of these tests it performs. Due to the range of payers and policies, the extent of this impact continues to be difficult to quantify.   

 Future changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations (or in the interpretation of current regulations) affecting government payment for clinical laboratory testing could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Based on currently available information, the Company is unable to predict what type of changes in legislation or regulations, if any, will occur.   

 Standard Electronic Transactions, Security and Confidentiality of Health Information    

 The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) was designed to address issues related to the portability of health insurance. In an effort to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the health care system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions, new regulations were promulgated to protect the privacy and security of certain information. These regulations apply to health plans, health care providers that conduct standard transactions electronically and health care clearinghouses (“covered entities”). Five such regulations have been finalized: (i) the Transactions and Code Sets Rule; (ii) the Privacy Rule; (iii) the Security Rule; (iv) the National Standard Employer Identifier Rule, which requires the use of a unique employer identifier in connection with certain electronic transactions; and (v) the National Provider Identifier Rule, which requires the use of a unique health care provider identifier in connection with certain electronic transactions.   

 The Company’s HIPAA project plan has three phases: (i) assessment of current systems, applications, processes and procedure testing and validation for HIPAA compliance; (ii) remediation of affected systems, applications, processes and procedure testing and validation for HIPAA compliance; and (iii) testing and validation.   

 The Privacy Rule regulates the use and disclosure of protected health information (“PHI”) by covered entities. It also sets forth certain rights that an individual has with respect to his or her PHI maintained by a covered entity, such as the right to access or amend certain records containing PHI or to request restrictions on the use or disclosure of PHI. Additionally, it requires covered entities to implement certain administrative requirements, such as designating a privacy officer, drafting and implementing privacy policies and procedures, and training workforce members. The Company believes that it is in compliance with the HIPAA Privacy Rule in all material respects.   

 The Security Rule establishes requirements for safeguarding patient information that is electronically transmitted or electronically stored. Covered entities were required to be in compliance with the HIPAA Security Standard as of April 21, 2005. The rule establishes 42 implementation specifications, 20 of which are “required,” meaning they must be implemented as specified in the rule. 22 are “addressable” meaning covered entities must assess whether each specification is a reasonable and appropriate safeguard within its environment for protection of electronic protected health information and implement if reasonable and appropriate or document why implementation would not be reasonable and appropriate. Some of the Security Standards are technical in nature and are addressed through policies and procedures for using information systems. The Company believes that it is in compliance with the HIPAA Security Standards in all material respects.   

 In light of the CMS Guidance and on-going contingency period, the Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the Transactions and Code Sets Rule. The Company also believes that it is in compliance with all material provisions of the Privacy Rule. In this regard, the Company has set up a hotline for the reporting of possible violations. The total cost associated with the requirements of  

(17) 

HIPAA is not expected to be material to the Company’s operations or cash flows. There are, however, many unresolved issues in both of these areas and future interpretations of HIPAA could impose significant costs on the Company.   

 The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA mandate the adoption of standard unique identifiers for health care providers. The intent of these provisions is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the electronic transmission of health information. CMS is currently issuing National Provider Identifier (“NPI”) numbers to healthcare providers. The National Provider Identication rule requires that all HIPAA-covered health care providers, whether they are individuals or organizations, must obtain a NPI for use to identify themselves in standard HIPAA transactions. NPI replaces the unique provider identification number (“UPIN”) — as well as other provider numbers previously assigned by payers and other entities — for the purpose of identifying providers in standard electronic transactions.   

 The Company is within the remediation/implementation phase of the HIPAA NPI requirements, and has applied for or will apply for and obtain NPIs on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries and relevant subparts to meet the needs of its trading partners. The Company is also actively soliciting the NPIs of its ordering provider clients to the extent they are needed in transactions submitted by the Company, and is making the changes to Company systems that will be necessary for NPI utilization in transactions. The Company recognizes that successful implementation of the NPI requirements will require significant cooperation among trading partners. Beginning May 23, 2007, the NPI was required but covered entities were allowed to invoke contingency plans for a period of one year. The Company has established a contingency plan that will remain in effect until May 23, 2008. As covered health plans end their contingency plans or otherwise require use of NPI in standard transactions during the contingency period, the Company will comply with the NPI requirements of such covered health plans while maintaining its contingency plan with respect to other covered health plans until they require the use of NPI or until May 23, 2008, whichever occurs first. CMS has stated that it will require the NPI on Part B professional claims submitted to Medicare after March 1, 2008 or it will reject claims. The failure of the Company or third parties to meet the NPI requirements could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s reimbursement and profitability.   

 In addition to the federal HIPAA regulations described above, there are a number of state laws regarding the confidentiality of medical information, some of which apply to clinical laboratories. These laws vary widely, and new laws in this area are pending, but they most commonly restrict the use and disclosure of medical and financial information. Penalties for violation of these laws include sanctions against a laboratory’s state licensure, as well as civil and/or criminal penalties. Violations of the HIPAA provisions after the applicable compliance dates could result in civil and/or criminal penalties, including significant fines and up to 10 years in prison.  

 Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations    

 Existing federal laws governing federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, as well as similar state laws, impose a variety of broadly described fraud and abuse prohibitions on healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories. These laws are interpreted liberally and enforced aggressively by multiple government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice, HHS’ Office of the Inspector General (“OIG”), and various state agencies. Historically, the clinical laboratory industry has been the focus of major governmental enforcement initiatives. The federal government’s enforcement efforts have been increasing over the past decade, in part as a result of the enactment of HIPAA, which included several provisions related to fraud and abuse enforcement, including the establishment of a program to coordinate federal, state and local law enforcement programs; a program to conduct greater numbers of investigations, audits and inspections relating to payment for health care items and services; and a federal anti-fraud and abuse account for enforcement efforts, funded through collection of penalties and fines for violations of the health care anti-fraud and abuse laws. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 also included new requirements directed at Medicaid fraud, including increased spending on enforcement and financial incentives for state Medicaid agencies to adopt false claims act provisions similar to the federal False Claims Act. The Act also established a new Medicaid Integrity Program, which parallels the existing federal Medicare Integrity Program.   

 The federal healthcare programs antikickback law (the “Antikickback Law”) prohibits knowingly providing anything of value in return for, or to induce, the referral of Medicare or Medicaid (or other federal healthcare program) business. Violations can result in imprisonment, fines, penalties, and/or  

(18) 

exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. HHS has published “safe harbor” regulations which specify certain arrangements that are protected from prosecution under the antikickback law if all conditions of the relevant safe harbor are met. Failure to fit within a safe harbor does not necessarily constitute a violation of the antikickback law; rather, the arrangement would be subject to scrutiny by regulators and prosecutors and would be evaluated on a case by case basis. Many states have their own Medicaid antikickback laws and several states also have antikickback laws that apply to all payers (i.e., not just government healthcare programs).   

 From time to time, the OIG issues alerts and other guidance on certain practices in the health care industry. Several examples of such guidance documents are described below. In October 1994, the OIG issued a Special Fraud Alert on arrangements for the provision of clinical laboratory services. The Fraud Alert set forth a number of practices allegedly engaged in by some clinical laboratories and health care providers that raise issues under the “fraud and abuse” laws, including the antikickback law. These practices include: (i) providing employees to furnish valuable services for physicians (other than collecting patient specimens for testing) that are typically the responsibility of the physicians’ staff; (ii) offering certain laboratory services to renal dialysis centers at prices below fair market value in return for referrals of other tests which are billed to Medicare at higher rates; (iii) providing free testing to physicians managed care patients in situations where the referring physicians benefit from such reduced laboratory utilization; (iv) providing free pick-up and disposal of bio-hazardous waste for physicians for items unrelated to a laboratory’s testing services; (v) providing general-use facsimile machines or computers to physicians that are not exclusively used in connection with the laboratory services; and (vi) providing free testing for health care providers, their families and their employees (professional courtesy testing). The OIG emphasized in the Special Fraud Alert that when one purpose of an arrangement is to induce referrals of program-reimbursed laboratory testing, both the clinical laboratory and the health care provider (e.g., physician) may be liable under the antikickback laws, and may be subject to criminal prosecution and exclusion from participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.   

 Another issue the OIG is concerned about involves the provision of discounts on laboratory services billed to customers in return for the referral of federal health care program business. In a 1999 Advisory Opinion, the OIG concluded that a proposed arrangement whereby a laboratory would offer physicians significant discounts on non-federal health care program laboratory tests might violate the antikickback statute. The OIG reasoned that the laboratory could be viewed as providing such discounts to the physician in exchange for referrals by the physician of business to be billed by the laboratory to Medicare at non-discounted rates. The OIG indicated that the arrangement would not qualify for protection under the discount safe harbor because Medicare and Medicaid would not get the benefit of the discount. Similarly, in 1999 correspondence, the OIG stated that if any direct or indirect link exists between a discount that a laboratory offers to a skilled nursing facility (“SNF”) for tests covered under the Medicare Prospective Payment System (“PPS”) and referrals to the laboratory of tests covered under Medicare Part B (i.e., not covered under a fixed PPS system), then the antikickback statute would be implicated.   

 The OIG also has issued two separate guidance documents regarding joint venture arrangements that may be viewed as suspect under the antikickback law. These documents have relevance to clinical laboratories that are part of (or are considering establishing) joint ventures with potential referral sources. The first guidance document, which focused on investor referrals to such ventures, was issued in 1989, and the more recent one, concerning contractual joint ventures, was issued in April 2003. Some of the elements of joint ventures that the OIG identified as “suspect” include: arrangements in which the capital invested by the physicians is disproportionately small and the return on investment is disproportionately large when compared to a typical investment; specific selection of investors who are in a position to make referrals to the venture; and arrangements in which one of the parties to the joint venture expands into a line of business that is dependent on referrals from the other party (sometimes called “shell” joint ventures). In a 2004 advisory opinion, the OIG expressed concern about a proposed joint venture in which a laboratory company would assist physician groups in establishing off-site pathology laboratories. The OIG indicated that the physicians’ financial and business risk in the venture was minimal and that the physicians’ would contract out substantially all laboratory operations, committing very little in the way of financial, capital, or human resources. The OIG was unable to exclude the possibility that the arrangement was designed to permit the laboratory to pay the physician groups for their referrals, and therefore was unwilling to find that the arrangement fell within a safe harbor or had sufficient safeguards to protect against fraud or abuse.  

(19) 

 Violations of other fraud and abuse laws also can result in exclusion from participation in federal health care programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. One basis for such exclusion is an individual or entity’s submission of claims to Medicare or Medicaid that are substantially in excess of that individual or entity’s usual charges for like items or services. On September 15, 2003, the OIG issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that, for the first time, would have defined the terms “usual charges” and “substantially in excess” for purposes of this exclusion authority. Specifically, the OIG proposed to define these terms in such a way that a laboratory charging Medicare or Medicaid for a given service more than 120 percent of its average payment from managed care plans and other payers would have been subject to exclusion, at the OIG’s discretion. In some circumstances, this proposal may have required laboratories and other providers, including the Company, to either lower their charges to Medicare and Medicaid or increase charges to certain other payers to avoid the risk of exclusion. On June 18, 2007, however, the OIG withdrew the proposed rule, saying it preferred to continue evaluating billing patterns on a case-by-case basis. In its withdrawal ntoice, the OIG also said it “remains concerned about disparities in the amounts charged to Medicare and Medicaid when compared to private payers,” that it continues to believe its exclusion authority for excess charges “provides useful backstop protection for the public fisc,” and that it will continue to use “all tools available to address instances where Medicare or Medicaid are charged substantially more than other payers.” Thus, although the OIG did not proceed with its rulemaking, an enforcement action based on certain concepts set forth in the proposed rule is possible and, if pursued, could have an adverse effect on the Company.   

 Under another federal statute, known as the “Stark Law” or “self-referral” prohibition, physicians who have an investment or compensation relationship with a clinical laboratory may not, unless an exception applies, refer Medicare patients for testing to the laboratory, regardless of the intent of the parties. Similarly, laboratories may not bill Medicare or any other party for services furnished pursuant to a prohibited referral. There are several Stark law exceptions that are relevant to arrangements involving clinical laboratories, including: 1) fair market value compensation for the provision of items or services; 2) payments by physicians to a laboratory for clinical laboratory services; 3) an exception for certain ancillary services (including laboratory services) provided within the referring physician’s own office, if certain criteria are satisfied; 4) physician investment in a company provided the company’s stock is traded on a public exchange and the company has stockholder equity exceeding $75.0 million; and 5) certain space and equipment rental arrangements that are set at a fair market value rate and satisfy other requirements. All of the requirements of a Stark Law exception must be met in order to take advantage of the exception. Many states have their own self-referral laws as well, which in some cases apply to all patient referrals, not just Medicare.   

 There are a variety of other types of federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including laws prohibiting submission of false or fraudulent claims. The Company seeks to conduct its business in compliance with all federal and state fraud and abuse laws. The Company is unable to predict how these laws will be applied in the future, and no assurances can be given that its arrangements will not be subject to scrutiny under such laws. Sanctions for violations of these laws may include exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, and loss of licensure. Any exclusion from participation in a federal healthcare program, or any loss of licensure, arising from any action by any federal or state regulatory or enforcement authority, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. In addition, any significant criminal or civil penalty resulting from such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.  

 Environmental, Health and Safety    

 The Company is subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety of laboratory employees and laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. All Company laboratories are subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all laboratory specimens and the Company generally utilizes outside vendors for disposal of such specimens. In addition, the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for health care employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus. These regulations, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne  

(20) 

pathogens.   

 On November 6, 2000, Congress passed the Needlestick Safety and Prevention Act which required, among other things, that companies include in their safety programs the evaluation and use of engineering controls such as safety needles if found to be effective at reducing the risk of needlestick injuries in the workplace. The Company implemented the use of safety needles at all of its service locations.   

 Although the Company is not aware of any current material non-compliance with such federal, state and local laws and regulations, failure to comply could subject the Company to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and/or other enforcement actions. 

 Drug Testing    

 Drug testing for public sector employees is regulated by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (“SAMHSA”) (formerly the National Institute on Drug Abuse), which has established detailed performance and quality standards that laboratories must meet to be approved to perform drug testing on employees of federal government contractors and certain other entities. To the extent that the Company’s laboratories perform such testing, each must be certified as meeting SAMHSA standards. The Company’s Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Raritan, New Jersey; Houston, Texas; San Diego, California; Seattle, Washington and Southaven, Mississippi laboratories are SAMHSA certified.  

 Controlled Substances    

 The use of controlled substances in testing for drugs of abuse is regulated by the federal Drug Enforcement Administration.    

Compliance Program   

 The Company maintains a comprehensive, company-wide compliance program. The Company continuously evaluates and monitors its compliance with all Medicare, Medicaid and other rules and regulations. The objective of the Company’s compliance program is to develop, implement, and update compliance safeguards as necessary. Emphasis is placed on developing compliance policies and guidelines, personnel training programs and various monitoring and audit procedures to attempt to achieve implementation of all applicable rules and regulations.   

 The Company seeks to conduct its business in compliance with all statutes, regulations, and other requirements applicable to its clinical laboratory operations. The clinical laboratory testing industry is, however, subject to extensive regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations have not been interpreted by the courts. There can be no assurance that applicable statutes and regulations will not be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would adversely effect the Company. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the loss of various licenses, certificates, and authorizations, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.  

(21) 

Item 1A. Risk Factors