ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Below are certain risk factors that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, or the trading price of our common stock or other securities. We caution the reader that these risk factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict such new risks and uncertainties, nor can it assess the extent to which any of the risk factors below or any such new risks and uncertainties, or any combination thereof, may impact our business.  

Risks Relating to the Company and Industry-Related Risks  

We could experience significant operating losses in the future.  

For a number of reasons, including those addressed in these risk factors, we might fail to maintain profitability and might experience significant losses. In particular, the condition of the economy, the level and volatility of fuel prices, the state of travel demand and intense competition in the airline industry have had, and will continue to have an impact on our operating results, and may increase the risk that we will experience losses.  

Downturns in economic conditions adversely affect our business.  

Due to the discretionary nature of business and leisure travel spending, airline industry revenues are heavily influenced by the condition of the U.S. economy and economies in other regions of the world. Unfavorable conditions in these broader economies have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased passenger demand for air travel and changes in booking practices, both of which in turn have had, and may have in the future, a strong negative effect on our revenues. In addition, during challenging economic times, actions by our competitors to increase their revenues can have an adverse impact on our revenues. See “The airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic” below. Certain labor agreements to which we are a party limit our ability to reduce the number of aircraft in operation, and the utilization of such aircraft, below certain levels. As a result, we may not be able to optimize the number of aircraft in operation in response to a decrease in passenger demand for air travel.  

Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity.  

Our operating results are materially impacted by changes in the availability, price volatility and cost of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in our business. Jet fuel market prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years and prices continue to be highly volatile.  

Because of the amount of fuel needed to operate our business, even a relatively small increase or decrease in the price of fuel can have a material effect on our operating results and liquidity. Due to the competitive nature of the airline industry and unpredictability of the market, we can offer no assurance that we may be able to increase our fares, impose fuel surcharges or otherwise increase revenues sufficiently to offset fuel price increases. Similarly, we cannot predict the effect or the actions of our competitors if the current low fuel prices remain in place for a significant period of time.  

Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, we cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. Natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, the strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, changes in access to petroleum product pipelines and terminals, speculation in the energy futures markets, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages, additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future.  

22  

Table of Contents 

We have a large number of older aircraft in our fleet, and these aircraft are not as fuel efficient as more recent models of aircraft, including those we have on order. We intend to continue to execute our fleet renewal plans to, among other things, improve the fuel efficiency of our fleet, and we are dependent on a limited number of major aircraft manufacturers to deliver aircraft on schedule. If we experience delays in delivery of the more fuel efficient aircraft that we have on order, we will be adversely affected.  

Our aviation fuel purchase contracts generally do not provide meaningful price protection against increases in fuel costs. Prior to the closing of the Merger, we sought to manage the risk of fuel price increases by using derivative contracts. As of December 31, 2015, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices.  

Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors. If in the future we enter into derivative contracts to hedge our fuel consumption, there can be no assurance that, at any given time, we will have derivatives in place to provide any particular level of protection against increased fuel costs or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our derivative contracts. To the extent we use derivative contracts that have the potential to create an obligation to pay upon settlement if prices decline significantly, such derivative contracts may limit our ability to benefit from lower fuel costs in the future. Also, a rapid decline in the projected price of fuel at a time when we have fuel hedging contracts in place could adversely impact our short-term liquidity, because hedge counterparties could require that we post collateral in the form of cash or letters of credit. See also the discussion in Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – “AAG’s Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions – Aircraft Fuel” and “American’s Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions – Aircraft Fuel.”  

The airline industry is intensely competitive and dynamic.  

Our competitors include other major domestic airlines and foreign, regional and new entrant airlines, as well as joint ventures formed by some of these airlines, many of which have more financial or other resources and/or lower cost structures than ours, as well as other forms of transportation, including rail and private automobiles. In many of our markets we compete with at least one low-cost air carrier. Our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other carriers in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. These factors may become even more significant in periods when the industry experiences large losses, as airlines under financial stress, or in bankruptcy, may institute pricing structures intended to achieve near-term survival rather than long-term viability.  

Low-cost carriers, including so-called ultra-low-cost carriers, have a profound impact on industry revenues. Using the advantage of low unit costs, these carriers offer lower fares in order to shift demand from larger, more established airlines, and represent significant competitors, particularly for customers who fly infrequently and are price sensitive and tend not to be loyal to any one particular carrier. Some low-cost carriers, which have cost structures lower than ours, have better recent financial performance and have announced growth strategies including commitments to acquire significant numbers of aircraft for delivery in the next few years. These low-cost carriers are expected to continue to increase their market share through growth and, potentially, consolidation, and could continue to have an impact on our revenues and overall performance. For example, as a result of divestitures completed in connection with gaining regulatory approval for the Merger, low-fare, low-cost carriers have gained additional access in a number of markets, including DCA, a slot-controlled airport. The actions of the low-cost carriers, including those described above, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance.  

Our presence in international markets is not as extensive as that of some of our competitors. We derived approximately 30% of our operating revenues in 2015 from operations outside of the U.S., as measured and  

23  

Table of Contents 

 reported to the DOT. In providing international air transportation, we compete to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations with U.S. airlines, foreign investor-owned airlines, and foreign state-owned or state-affiliated airlines, including carriers based in the Middle East, the three largest of which we believe benefit from significant government subsidies. Our international service exposes us to foreign economies and the potential for reduced demand, such as we have recently experienced in Brazil and Venezuela, when any foreign countries we serve suffer adverse local economic conditions. In addition, open skies agreements with an increasing number of countries around the world provide international airlines with open access to U.S. markets. See “Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages.”  

Certain airline alliances have been, or may in the future be, granted immunity from antitrust regulations by governmental authorities for specific areas of cooperation, such as joint pricing decisions. To the extent alliances formed by our competitors can undertake activities that are not available to us, our ability to effectively compete may be hindered. Our ability to attract and retain customers is dependent upon, among other things, our ability to offer our customers convenient access to desired markets. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or obtain alliance and marketing relationships with other air carriers in desired markets.  

We are party to antitrust-immunized cooperation agreements with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair, Royal Jordanian, Japan Airlines, LAN Airlines and LAN Peru. We have also established joint business agreements (JBAs) with British Airways, Iberia, and Finnair, and separately Japan Airlines. In addition, we applied for regulatory approval to enter into a JBA with Qantas Airways and have or will be applying for regulatory approval of a JBA with LATAM Airlines Group air carriers in the relevant jurisdictions affected by that JBA. No assurances can be given as to any benefits that we may derive from such arrangements or any other arrangements that may ultimately be implemented.  

Additional mergers and other forms of industry consolidation, including antitrust immunity grants, may take place and may not involve us as a participant. Depending on which carriers combine and which assets, if any, are sold or otherwise transferred to other carriers in connection with such combinations, our competitive position relative to the post-combination carriers or other carriers that acquire such assets could be harmed. In addition, as carriers combine through traditional mergers or antitrust immunity grants, their route networks will grow, and that growth will result in greater overlap with our network, which in turn could result in lower overall market share and revenues for us. Such consolidation is not limited to the U.S., but could include further consolidation among international carriers in Europe and elsewhere.  

We may be unable to integrate operations successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Merger.  

The Merger involved the combination of two companies that operated as independent public companies prior to the Merger, and each of which operated its own international network airline. Historically, the integration of separate airlines has often proven to be more time consuming and to require more resources than initially estimated. Although we received a single operating certificate from the FAA for American and US Airways on April 8, 2015, implemented a single integrated reservation system on October 17, 2015 and merged American and US Airways on December 30, 2015, we must continue to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices, cultures and operations. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include the following:  

   •    the inability to successfully combine our businesses in a manner that permits us to achieve the synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the Merger;  

   •    the challenge of integrating complex systems, operating procedures, regulatory compliance programs, technology, aircraft fleets, networks, and other assets (including, for example, our flight operations systems and technology which supports human resources functions) in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies;  

24  

Table of Contents 

   •    the effects of divestitures and other operational commitments entered into in connection with the settlement of the litigation brought by the Department of Justice (DOJ) and certain states prior to the closing of the Merger, including those involving DAL and DCA;  

   •    the challenge of forming and maintaining an effective and cohesive management team;  

   •    the diversion of the attention of our management and other key employees;  

   •    the challenge of integrating workforces while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service and running an efficient operation;  

   •    the risks relating to integrating various computer, communications and other technology systems that will be necessary to operate American and US Airways as a single airline and to achieve cost synergies by eliminating redundancies in the businesses;  

   •    the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing business;  

   •    branding or rebranding initiatives may involve substantial costs and may not be favorably received by customers; and  

   •    potential unknown liabilities, liabilities that are significantly larger than we currently anticipate and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the Merger, including costs in excess of the cash transition costs that we currently anticipate.  

Accordingly, we may not be able to realize the contemplated benefits of the Merger fully, or it may take longer and cost more than expected to realize such benefits.  

Ongoing data security compliance requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data breach could disrupt our operations and harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our business requires the appropriate and secure utilization of customer, employee, business partner and other sensitive information. We cannot be certain that advances in criminal capabilities (including cyber-attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware, computer viruses and the like), discovery of new vulnerabilities or attempts to exploit existing vulnerabilities in our systems, other data thefts, physical system or network break-ins or inappropriate access, or other developments will not compromise or breach the technology protecting the networks that access and store sensitive information. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. Furthermore, there has been heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data security in the U.S. and abroad (particularly in the EU), including requirements for varying levels of customer notification in the event of a data breach.  

In addition, many of our commercial partners, including credit card companies, have imposed data security standards that we must meet. In particular, we are required by the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council, founded by the credit card companies, to comply with their highest level of data security standards. While we continue our efforts to meet these standards, new and revised standards may be imposed that may be difficult for us to meet and could increase our costs.  

A significant data security breach or our failure to comply with applicable U.S. or foreign data security regulations or other data security standards may expose us to litigation, claims for contract breach, fines, sanctions or other penalties, which could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to address these issues appropriately could also give rise to additional legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur further related costs and expenses.  

25  

Table of Contents 

Our indebtedness and other obligations are substantial and could adversely affect our business and liquidity.  

We have significant amounts of indebtedness and other obligations, including pension obligations, obligations to make future payments on flight equipment and property leases, and substantial non-cancelable obligations under aircraft and related spare engine purchase agreements. Moreover, currently a substantial portion of our assets are pledged to secure our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness and other obligations could have important consequences. For example, they:  

   •    may make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness;  

   •    may limit our ability to obtain additional funding for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments, integration costs, and general corporate purposes, and adversely affect the terms on which such funding can be obtained;  

   •    require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes;  

   •    make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, industry conditions and catastrophic external events;  

   •    limit our ability to respond to business opportunities and to withstand operating risks that are customary in the industry; and  

   •    contain restrictive covenants that could:  

   •    limit our ability to merge, consolidate, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness, issue preferred stock, make investments and pay dividends;  

   •    significantly constrain our ability to respond, or respond quickly, to unexpected disruptions in our own operations, the U.S. or global economies, or the businesses in which we operate, or to take advantage of opportunities that would improve our business, operations, or competitive position versus other airlines;  

   •    limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and  

   •    result in an event of default under our indebtedness.  

We will need to obtain sufficient financing or other capital to operate successfully.  

Our business plan contemplates significant investments in modernizing our fleet and integrating the American and US Airways businesses. Significant capital resources will be required to execute this plan. We estimate that, based on our commitments as of December 31, 2015, our planned aggregate expenditures for aircraft purchase commitments and certain engines on a consolidated basis for calendar years 2016-2020 would be approximately $18.0 billion. Accordingly, we will need substantial financing or other capital resources. In addition, as of the date of this report, we had not secured financing commitments for some of the aircraft that we have on order, and we cannot be assured of the availability or cost of that financing. In particular, as of December 31, 2015, we did not have financing commitments for the following aircraft currently on order and scheduled to be delivered through 2017: 25 Airbus A320 family aircraft in 2016 and 20 Airbus A320 family aircraft in 2017, 8 Boeing 787 family aircraft in 2016 and 13 Boeing 787 family aircraft in 2017, 15 Boeing 737-800 aircraft in 2016, three Boeing 737 MAX family aircraft in 2017 and two Boeing 777-300ER aircraft in 2016. In addition, we do not have financing commitments in place for substantially all aircraft currently on order and scheduled to be delivered in 2018 and beyond. The number of aircraft for which we do not have financing may change as we exercise purchase options or otherwise change our purchase and delivery schedules. If we are unable to arrange financing for such aircraft at customary advance rates and on terms and conditions acceptable to us, we may need to use cash from operations or cash on hand to purchase such aircraft or may seek to negotiate deferrals for such aircraft with the aircraft manufacturers. Depending on numerous factors, many of which are out of our control,  

26  

Table of Contents 

 such as the state of the domestic and global economies, the capital and credit markets’ view of our prospects and the airline industry in general, and the general availability of debt and equity capital at the time we seek capital, the financing or other capital resources that we will need may not be available to us, or may only be available on onerous terms and conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining financing or other needed sources of capital to operate successfully. An inability to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of financing and fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  

Concerns about the systemic impact of inflation, the availability and cost of credit, energy costs and geopolitical issues, combined with continued changes in business activity levels and consumer confidence, increased unemployment and volatile oil prices, have in the past and may in the future contribute to volatility in the capital and credit markets. These market conditions could result in illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Any such changes in the domestic and global financial markets may increase our costs of financing and adversely affect our ability to obtain financing needed for the acquisition of aircraft that we have contractual commitments to purchase and for other types of financings we may seek in order to refinance debt maturities, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. Any downgrades to our credit rating may likewise increase the cost and reduce the availability of financing.  

Further, a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars (LIBOR). LIBOR tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, rates set by the Federal Reserve and other central banks, and the supply of and demand for credit in the London interbank market. We have not hedged our interest rate exposure with respect to the $1.87 billion term loan facility and the $1.4 billion revolving credit facility provided for by the credit and guaranty agreement, entered into June 27, 2013 between AAG, American and certain lenders (as amended and restated on May 21, 2015 and as otherwise amended, the 2013 Credit Facilities), the $1.6 billion term loan facility entered into on May 23, 2013 between US Airways and US Airways Group and certain lenders (as amended, the 2013 Citicorp Credit Facility), the $750 million term loan facility and the $1.0 billion revolving credit facility entered into October 10, 2014, between AAG and American and certain lenders (as amended and restated on April 20, 2015 and as otherwise amended, the 2014 Credit Facilities) and other of our floating rate debt. Accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period will fluctuate based on LIBOR and other variable interest rates. To the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. See also the discussion of interest rate risk in Part II, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – “AAG’s Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions – Interest” and “American’s Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions – Interest.”  

Our high level of fixed obligations may limit our ability to fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, may limit our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and causes our business to be vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions.  

We have a significant amount of fixed obligations, including debt, pension costs, aircraft leases and financings, aircraft purchase commitments, leases and developments of airport and other facilities and other cash obligations. We also have certain guaranteed costs associated with our regional operations.  

As a result of the substantial fixed costs associated with these obligations:  

   •    a decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings;  

   •    we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund all of these fixed obligations if our revenues decline or costs increase; and  

   •    we may have to use our working capital to fund these fixed obligations instead of funding general corporate requirements, including capital expenditures.  

27  

Table of Contents 

These obligations also impact our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, and our flexibility in the conduct of our business, and could materially adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  

We have significant pension and other postretirement benefit funding obligations, which may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our pension funding obligations are significant. The amount of these obligations will depend on the performance of investments held in trust by the pension plans, interest rates for determining liabilities and actuarial experience. Currently, our minimum funding obligation for our pension plans is subject to temporary favorable rules that are scheduled to expire at the end of 2017. Our pension funding obligations are likely to increase materially beginning in 2019, when we will be required to make contributions relating to the 2018 fiscal year. In addition, we may have significant obligations for other postretirement benefits, the ultimate amount of which depends on, among other things, the outcome of an adversary proceeding related to retiree medical and life insurance obligations filed in the Chapter 11 Cases.  

Any failure to comply with the covenants contained in our financing arrangements may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

The terms of the 2013 Credit Facilities, the 2013 Citicorp Credit Facility and the 2014 Credit Facilities require AAG and American to ensure that AAG and its restricted subsidiaries maintain consolidated unrestricted cash and cash equivalents and amounts available to be drawn under revolving credit facilities in an aggregate amount not less than $2.0 billion, and the 2013 Citicorp Credit Facility also requires AAG and the other obligors thereunder to hold not less than $750 million (subject to partial reductions upon certain reductions in the outstanding amount of the loan) of that amount in accounts subject to control agreements.  

Our ability to comply with these liquidity covenants while paying the fixed costs associated with our contractual obligations and our other expenses, including significant pension and other postretirement funding obligations and cash transition costs associated with the Merger, will depend on our operating performance and cash flow, which are seasonal, as well as factors including fuel costs and general economic and political conditions.  

In addition, our credit facilities and certain other financing arrangements include covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to pay dividends and make certain other payments, make certain investments, incur additional indebtedness, enter into certain affiliate transactions and engage in certain business activities, in each case subject to certain exceptions.  

The factors affecting our liquidity (and our ability to comply with related liquidity and other covenants) will remain subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties, many of which are outside our control. Any breach of our liquidity and other covenants or failure to timely pay our obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences, including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit card proceeds by our credit card processors and the exercise of remedies by our creditors and lessors. In such a situation, we may not be able to fulfill our contractual obligations, repay the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments or otherwise cover our fixed costs.  

If our financial condition worsens, provisions in our credit card processing and other commercial agreements may adversely affect our liquidity.  

We have agreements with companies that process customer credit card transactions for the sale of air travel and other services. These agreements allow these processing companies, under certain conditions (including, with respect to certain agreements, the failure of American to maintain certain levels of liquidity) to hold an amount of our cash (a holdback) equal to some or all of the advance ticket sales that have been processed by that  

28  

Table of Contents 

 company, but for which we have not yet provided the air transportation. We are not currently required to maintain any holdbacks pursuant to these requirements. These holdback requirements can be modified at the discretion of the processing companies upon the occurrence of specific events, including material adverse changes in our financial condition. An increase in the current holdback balances to higher percentages up to and including 100% of relevant advanced ticket sales could materially reduce our liquidity. Likewise, other of our commercial agreements contain provisions that allow other entities to impose less-favorable terms, including the acceleration of amounts due, in the event of material adverse changes in our financial condition.  

Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations.  

Relations between air carriers and labor unions in the U.S. are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) generally contain “amendable dates” rather than expiration dates, and the RLA requires that a carrier maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board (NMB). For the dates that the CBAs with our major work groups become amendable under the RLA, see Part I, Item 1. Business – “Employees and Labor Relations.”  

In the case of a CBA that is amendable under the RLA, if no agreement is reached during direct negotiations between the parties, either party may request that the NMB appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation processes, and it is not unusual for those processes to last for many months or even several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare that an impasse exists and proffer binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration, and if arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During or after that period, a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another 30-day “cooling off” period. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

None of the unions representing our employees presently may lawfully engage in concerted refusals to work, such as strikes, slow-downs, sick-outs or other similar activity, against us. Nonetheless, there is a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of our airline and impair our financial performance. See Part I, Item 1. Business – “Employees and Labor Relations.”  

The inability to maintain labor costs at competitive levels would harm our financial performance.  

Currently, we believe our labor costs are competitive relative to the other large network carriers. However, we cannot provide assurance that labor costs going forward will remain competitive because some of our agreements are amendable now and others may become amendable, competitors may significantly reduce their labor costs or we may agree to higher-cost provisions in our current or future labor negotiations. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 82% of our employees were represented for collective bargaining purposes by labor unions. Some of our unions have brought and may continue to bring grievances to binding arbitration, including those related to wages. Unions may also bring court actions and may seek to compel us to engage in bargaining processes where we believe we have no such obligation. If successful, there is a risk these judicial or arbitral avenues could create material additional costs that we did not anticipate.  

Interruptions or disruptions in service at one of our hub airports could have a material adverse impact on our operations.  

We operate principally through hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami, New York City, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington, D.C. Substantially all of our flights either originate in or fly  

29  

Table of Contents 

 into one of these locations. A significant interruption or disruption in service at one of our hubs resulting from air traffic control (ATC) delays, weather conditions, natural disasters, growth constraints, relations with third-party service providers, failure of computer systems, facility disruptions, labor relations, power supplies, fuel supplies, terrorist activities or otherwise could result in the cancellation or delay of a significant portion of our flights and, as a result, could have a severe impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations.  

In order to operate our existing and proposed flight schedule and, where appropriate, add service along new or existing routes, we must be able to maintain and/or obtain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, and office space. As airports around the world become more congested, we will not always be able to ensure that our plans for new service can be implemented in a commercially viable manner, given operating constraints at airports throughout our network, including due to inadequate facilities at desirable airports. Further, our operating costs at airports at which we operate, including our hubs, may increase significantly because of capital improvements at such airports that we may be required to fund, directly or indirectly. In some circumstances, such costs could be imposed by the relevant airport authority without our approval.  

In addition, operations at four major domestic airports, certain smaller domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by us are regulated by governmental entities through the use of slots or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period and may have other operational restrictions as well. In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots or slot exemptions at DCA and three New York City airports: Newark Liberty International Airport, JFK and LGA. Our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or similar regulatory authority. Similarly, our operations at international airports in Frankfurt, London Heathrow, Paris and other airports outside the U.S. are regulated by local slot authorities pursuant to the International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. We cannot provide any assurance that regulatory changes regarding the allocation of slots or similar regulatory authority will not have a material adverse impact on our operations.  

In connection with the settlement of litigation relating to the Merger brought by the DOJ and certain states, we entered into settlement agreements that provide for certain asset divestitures including 52 slot pairs at DCA, 17 slot pairs at LGA and gates and related ground facilities necessary to operate those slot pairs, and two gates at each of Boston Logan International Airport, Chicago O’Hare International Airport, DAL, LAX and Miami International Airport. The settlement agreements also require us to maintain certain hub operations and continue to provide service to certain specified communities for limited periods of time. In addition, we entered into a related settlement with the DOT related to small community service from DCA. Further, as a consequence of the Merger clearance process in the European Union (EU), we made one pair of London Heathrow slots available for use by another carrier and, along with our JBA partners, we made one pair of London Heathrow slots available to competitors for use for up to six years in different markets.  

Our ability to provide service can also be impaired at airports, such as Chicago O’Hare International Airport and LAX, where the airport gate and other facilities are inadequate to accommodate all of the service that we would like to provide, or airports such as DAL where we have no access to gates at all.  

Any limitation on our ability to acquire or maintain adequate gates, ticketing facilities, operations areas, slots (where applicable), or office space could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

30  

Table of Contents 

If we encounter problems with any of our third-party regional operators or third-party service providers, our operations could be adversely affected by a resulting decline in revenue or negative public perception about our services.  

A significant portion of our regional operations are conducted by third-party operators on our behalf, primarily under capacity purchase agreements. Due to our reliance on third parties to provide these essential services, we are subject to the risks of disruptions to their operations, which may result from many of the same risk factors disclosed in this report, such as the impact of adverse economic conditions, the inability of third parties to hire or retain necessary personnel, including in particular pilots, and other risk factors, such as an out-of-court or bankruptcy restructuring of any of our regional operators. We may also experience disruption to our regional operations if we terminate the capacity purchase agreement with one or more of our current operators and transition the services to another provider. As our regional segment provides revenues to us directly and indirectly (by providing flow traffic to our hubs), any significant disruption to our regional operations would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

In addition, our reliance upon others to provide essential services on behalf of our operations may result in our relative inability to control the efficiency and timeliness of contract services. We have entered into agreements with contractors to provide various facilities and services required for our operations, including distribution and sale of airline seat inventory, provision of information technology and services, regional operations, aircraft maintenance, ground services and facilities, reservations and baggage handling. Similar agreements may be entered into in any new markets we decide to serve. These agreements are generally subject to termination after notice by the third-party service provider. We are also at risk should one of these service providers cease operations, and there is no guarantee that we could replace these providers on a timely basis with comparably priced providers, or at all. Volatility in fuel prices, disruptions to capital markets and adverse economic conditions in general have subjected certain of these third-party regional carriers to significant financial pressures, which have led to several bankruptcies among these carriers. Any material problems with the efficiency and timeliness of contract services, resulting from financial hardships or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

We rely on third-party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels.  

We rely on third-party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems (GDSs) (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport), conventional travel agents and online travel agents (OTAs) (e.g., Expedia, including its booking sites Orbitz and Travelocity, and The Priceline Group), to distribute a significant portion of our airline tickets, and we expect in the future to continue to rely on these channels and hope to expand their ability to distribute and collect revenues for ancillary products (e.g., fees for selective seating). These distribution channels are more expensive and at present have less functionality in respect of ancillary product offerings than those we operate ourselves, such as our call centers and our website. Certain of these distribution channels also effectively restrict the manner in which we distribute our products generally. To remain competitive, we will need to manage successfully our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of third-party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. These imperatives may affect our relationships with GDSs and OTAs, including as consolidation of OTAs continues or is proposed to continue. Any inability to manage our third-party distribution costs, rights and functionality at a competitive level or any material diminishment or disruption in the distribution of our tickets could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages.  

Airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. In the last several years, Congress has passed laws, and the DOT, the FAA, the U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and  

31  

Table of Contents 

 the Department of Homeland Security have issued a number of directives and other regulations, that affect the airline industry. These requirements impose substantial costs on us and restrict the ways we may conduct our business.  

For example, the FAA from time to time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures or operational restrictions. Our failure to timely comply with these requirements has in the past and may in the future result in fines and other enforcement actions by the FAA or other regulators. In the future, new regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on us and the industry.  

DOT consumer rules that took effect in 2010 require procedures for customer handling during long onboard delays, further regulate airline interactions with passengers through the reservations process, at the airport, and onboard the aircraft, and require disclosures concerning airline fares and ancillary fees such as baggage fees. The DOT has been aggressively investigating alleged violations of these rules. Other DOT rules apply to post-ticket purchase price increases and an expansion of tarmac delay regulations to international airlines.  

The Aviation and Transportation Security Act mandates the federalization of certain airport security procedures and imposes additional security requirements on airports and airlines, most of which are funded by a per-ticket tax on passengers and a tax on airlines.  

The results of our operations, demand for air travel, and the manner in which we conduct business each may be affected by changes in law and future actions taken by governmental agencies, including:  

   •    changes in law which affect the services that can be offered by airlines in particular markets and at particular airports, or the types of fees that can be charged to passengers;  

   •    the granting and timing of certain governmental approvals (including antitrust or foreign government approvals) needed for codesharing alliances and other arrangements with other airlines;  

   •    restrictions on competitive practices (for example, court orders, or agency regulations or orders, that would curtail an airline’s ability to respond to a competitor);  

   •    the adoption of new passenger security standards or regulations that impact customer service standards (for example, a “passenger bill of rights”);  

   •    restrictions on airport operations, such as restrictions on the use of slots at airports or the auction or reallocation of slot rights currently held by us; and  

   •    the adoption of more restrictive locally-imposed noise restrictions.  

Each additional regulation or other form of regulatory oversight increases costs and adds greater complexity to airline operations and, in some cases, may reduce the demand for air travel. There can be no assurance that our compliance with new rules, anticipated rules or other forms of regulatory oversight will not have a material adverse effect on us.  

Any significant reduction in air traffic capacity at key airports in the U.S. or overseas could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the ATC system is not successfully managing the growing demand for U.S. air travel. ATC towers are frequently understaffed in certain of our hubs, and air traffic controllers rely on outdated technologies that routinely overwhelm the system and compel airlines to fly inefficient, indirect routes. The ATC system’s inability to handle existing travel demand has led government agencies to implement short-term capacity constraints during peak travel periods in certain markets, resulting in delays and disruptions of air traffic. The outdated technologies also cause the ATC to be less resilient in the event of a failure. For example, in 2014 the ATC systems in Chicago took weeks to recover following a fire in the ATC tower at Chicago O’Hare International Airport, which resulted in thousands of cancelled flights.  

32  

Table of Contents 

On February 14, 2012, the FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 was signed. The law provides funding for the FAA to rebuild its ATC system, including switching from radar to a GPS-based system. It is uncertain when any improvements to the efficiency of the ATC system will take effect. Failure to update the ATC system in a timely manner and the substantial funding requirements that may be imposed on airlines of a modernized ATC system may have a material adverse effect on our business.  

The ability of U.S. airlines to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable arrangements between the U.S. and foreign governments may be amended from time to time and appropriate slots or facilities may not be made available. We currently operate a number of international routes under government arrangements that limit the number of airlines permitted to operate on the route, the capacity of the airlines providing services on the route, or the number of airlines allowed access to particular airports. If an open skies policy were to be adopted for any of these routes, such an event could have a material adverse impact on us and could result in the impairment of material amounts of our related tangible and intangible assets. In addition, competition from revenue-sharing joint ventures, JBAs, and other alliance arrangements by and among other airlines could impair the value of our business and assets on the open skies routes. For example, the open skies air services agreement between the U.S. and the EU, which took effect in March 2008, provides airlines from the U.S. and EU member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly from the U.S. to any airport in the EU, including London Heathrow Airport. As a result of the agreement, we face increased competition in these markets, including London Heathrow Airport.  

The airline industry is heavily taxed.  

The airline industry is subject to extensive government fees and taxation that negatively impact our revenue. The U.S. airline industry is one of the most heavily taxed of all industries. These fees and taxes have grown significantly in the past decade for domestic flights, and various U.S. fees and taxes also are assessed on international flights. For example, as permitted by federal legislation, most major U.S. airports impose a passenger facility charge per passenger on us. In addition, the governments of foreign countries in which we operate impose on U.S. airlines, including us, various fees and taxes, and these assessments have been increasing in number and amount in recent years. Moreover, we are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the “ticket tax,” on domestic and international air transportation. We collect the excise tax, along with certain other U.S. and foreign taxes and user fees on air transportation (such as passenger security fees), and pass along the collected amounts to the appropriate governmental agencies. Although these taxes are not operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. There are continuing efforts in Congress and in other countries to raise different portions of the various taxes, fees, and charges imposed on airlines and their passengers. Increases in such taxes, fees and charges could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Under DOT regulations, all governmental taxes and fees must be included in the prices we quote or advertise to our customers. Due to the competitive revenue environment, many increases in these fees and taxes have been absorbed by the airline industry rather than being passed on to the customer. Further increases in fees and taxes may reduce demand for air travel, and thus our revenues.  

Changes to our business model that are designed to increase revenues may not be successful and may cause operational difficulties or decreased demand.  

We have a number of measures designed to increase revenue and offset costs. These measures include charging separately for services that had previously been included within the price of a ticket and increasing other pre-existing fees. We may introduce additional initiatives in the future; however, as time goes on, we expect that it will be more difficult to identify and implement additional initiatives. We cannot assure you that these measures or any future initiatives will be successful in increasing our revenues. Additionally, the implementation of these initiatives may create logistical challenges that could harm the operational performance of our airline. Also, any new and increased fees might reduce the demand for air travel on our airline or across  

33  

Table of Contents 

 the industry in general, particularly if weakened economic conditions make our customers more sensitive to increased travel costs or provide a significant competitive advantage to other carriers that determine not to institute similar charges.  

The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business.  

We believe that our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain or attract highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant numbers of qualified management and other personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

We may be adversely affected by conflicts overseas or terrorist attacks; the travel industry continues to face ongoing security concerns.  

Acts of terrorism or fear of such attacks, including elevated national threat warnings, wars or other military conflicts, may depress air travel, particularly on international routes, and cause declines in revenues and increases in costs. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and continuing terrorist threats, attacks and attempted attacks materially impacted and continue to impact air travel. Increased security procedures introduced at airports since the attacks of September 11, 2001 and any other such measures that may be introduced in the future generate higher operating costs for airlines. The Aviation and Transportation Security Act mandated improved flight deck security, deployment of federal air marshals on board flights, improved airport perimeter access security, airline crew security training, enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors, enhanced training and qualifications of security screening personnel, additional provision of passenger data to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency and enhanced background checks. A concurrent increase in airport security charges and procedures, such as restrictions on carry-on baggage, has also had and may continue to have a disproportionate impact on short-haul travel, which constitutes a significant portion of our flying and revenue.  

We operate a global business with international operations that are subject to economic and political instability and have been, and in the future may continue to be, adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control.  

We operate a global business with operations outside of the U.S. from which we derived approximately 30% of our operating revenues in 2015, as measured and reported to the DOT. Our current international activities and prospects have been and in the future could be adversely affected by reversals or delays in the opening of foreign markets, increased competition in international markets, exchange controls or other restrictions on repatriation of funds, currency and political risks (including changes in exchange rates and currency devaluations), environmental regulation, increases in taxes and fees and changes in international government regulation of our operations, including the inability to obtain or retain needed route authorities and/or slots. In particular, fluctuations in foreign currencies, including devaluations, exchange controls and other restrictions on the repatriation of funds, have significantly affected and may continue to significantly affect our operating performance, liquidity and the value of any cash held outside the U.S. in local currency.  

Generally, fluctuations in foreign currencies, including devaluations, cannot be predicted by us and can significantly affect the value of our assets located outside the United States. These conditions, as well as any further delays, devaluations or imposition of more stringent repatriation restrictions, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

We are subject to many forms of environmental and noise regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result.  

We are subject to increasingly stringent federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment and noise reduction, including those relating to emissions to the air,  

34  

Table of Contents 

 discharges to surface and subsurface waters, safe drinking water, and the management of hazardous substances, oils and waste materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, and violations can lead to significant fines and penalties.  

In June 2015, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued revised underground storage tank regulations that could affect airport fuel hydrant systems, as certain of those systems may need to be modified in order to comply with applicable portions of the revised regulations. Additionally, on June 4, 2015, the EPA reissued the Multi-Sector General Permit for Stormwater Discharges from Industrial Activities. Among other revisions, the reissued permit incorporates the EPA’s previously issued Airport Deicing Effluent Limitation Guidelines and New Source Performance Standards. In addition, California adopted a revised State Industrial General Permit for Stormwater Discharges on April 1, 2014, which became effective July 1, 2015. This permit places additional reporting and monitoring requirements on permittees and requires implementation of mandatory best management practices. While the cost of compliance with these requirements is not expected to be significant, the company will continue to monitor and evaluate the impact of these requirements on airport operations. In addition to the EPA and state regulations, several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of de-icing fluid to the environment, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport de-icing facilities. Such efforts are likely to impose additional costs and restrictions on airlines using those airports. We do not believe, however, that such environmental developments will have a material impact on our capital expenditures or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations, operating costs or competitive position.  

We are also subject to other environmental laws and regulations, including those that require us to investigate and remediate soil or groundwater to meet certain remediation standards. Under federal law, generators of waste materials, and current and former owners or operators of facilities, can be subject to liability for investigation and remediation costs at locations that have been identified as requiring response actions. Liability under these laws may be strict, joint and several, meaning that we could be liable for the costs of cleaning up environmental contamination regardless of fault or the amount of wastes directly attributable to us. We have liability for investigation and remediation costs at various sites, although such costs are currently not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business.  

We have various leases and agreements with respect to real property, tanks and pipelines with airports and other operators. Under these leases and agreements, we have agreed to indemnify the lessor or operator against environmental liabilities associated with the real property or operations described under the agreement, in some cases even if we are not the party responsible for the initial event that caused the environmental damage. We also participate in leases with other airlines in fuel consortiums and fuel committees at airports, where such indemnities are generally joint and several among the participating airlines.  

Governmental authorities in several U.S. and foreign cities are also considering, or have already implemented, aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews and limitations on daytime take offs and landings. We have been able to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, but our operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.  

We are subject to risks associated with climate change, including increased regulation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.  

There is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, the EU has established the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to regulate GHG emissions in the EU. The EU adopted a directive in 2008 under which each EU member state is required to extend the ETS to aviation operations. This directive would have required us, beginning in 2012, to annually submit emission allowances in order to operate flights to and from airports in the European Economic Area (EEA), including flights between the U.S. and EU member states. However, in an effort to allow the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) time to propose an alternate scheme to manage global aviation emissions, in April 2013, the EU suspended for  

35  

Table of Contents 

 one year the ETS’ application to flights entering and departing the EEA, limiting its application, for flights flown in 2012, to intra-EEA flights only. In October 2013, the ICAO Assembly adopted a resolution calling for the development through ICAO of a global, market-based scheme for aviation GHG emissions, to be finalized in 2016 and implemented in 2020. Subsequently, the EU has amended the EU ETS so that the monitoring, reporting and submission of allowances for aviation GHG emissions will continue to be limited to only intra-EEA flights through 2016, at which time the EU will evaluate the progress made by ICAO and determine what, if any, measures to take related to aviation GHG emissions from 2017 onwards. The U.S. enacted legislation in November 2012 which encourages the DOT to seek an international solution through ICAO and that will allow the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to prohibit U.S. airlines from participating in the ETS. The effort currently underway through ICAO to reach a global agreement on measures to manage international aviation GHG emission growth could significantly impact our business, particularly to the extent that any final agreement may emphasize a collective cost sharing approach for industry emissions growth over a cost approach based on individual carrier contribution to emission growth. Ultimately, the scope and application of ETS or other emissions trading schemes to our operations, now or in the near future, remains uncertain. We do not anticipate any significant emissions allowance expenditures in 2016. Beyond 2016, compliance with the ETS or similar emissions-related requirements could significantly increase our operating costs. Further, the potential impact of ETS or other emissions-related requirements on our costs will ultimately depend on a number of factors, including baseline emissions, the price of emission allowances or offsets and the number of future flights subject to ETS or other emissions-related requirements. These costs have not been completely defined and could fluctuate.  

In addition, in December 2015, at the 21st Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC’s COP21), over 190 countries, including the United States, reached an agreement to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. While there is no express reference to aviation in this international agreement, to the extent the United States and other countries implement this agreement or impose other climate change regulations, either with respect to the aviation industry or with respect to related industries such as the aviation fuel industry, it could have an adverse direct or indirect effect on our business.  

Within the U.S., there is an increasing trend toward regulating GHG emissions directly under the Clean Air Act (CAA). In response to a 2012 ruling by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, the EPA announced in June 2015 a proposed endangerment finding that aircraft engine GHG emissions cause or contribute to air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare. A public hearing regarding the proposed endangerment finding was held in August 2015. If the EPA finalizes the endangerment finding, the EPA is obligated under the CAA to set aircraft engine GHG emission standards. It is anticipated that any such standards established by EPA would closely align with emission standards currently being developed by ICAO. In February 2016, the ICAO Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection (CAEP) recommended that ICAO adopt carbon dioxide certification standards that would apply to new type aircraft certified beginning in 2020, and would be phased in for newly manufactured existing aircraft type designs starting in 2023.  

In addition, several states have adopted or are considering initiatives to regulate emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emissions inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs.  

These regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the U.S. at the federal and state levels, are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in the U.S., the EU or in other areas in which we do business. However, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. Such activity may also impact us indirectly by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs.  

36  

Table of Contents 

We rely heavily on technology and automated systems to operate our business, and any failure of these technologies or systems could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

We are highly dependent on technology and automated systems to operate our business and achieve low operating costs. These technologies and systems include our computerized airline reservation system, flight operations systems, financial planning, management and accounting systems, telecommunications systems, website, maintenance systems and check-in kiosks. In order for our operations to work efficiently, our website and reservation system must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic, maintain secure information and deliver flight information, as well as issue electronic tickets and process critical financial information in a timely manner. Substantially all of our tickets are issued to passengers as electronic tickets. We depend on our reservation system, which is hosted and maintained under a long-term contract by a third-party service provider, to be able to issue, track and accept these electronic tickets. If our automated systems are not functioning or if our third-party service providers were to fail to adequately provide technical support, system maintenance or timely software upgrades for any one of our key existing systems, we could experience service disruptions or delays, which could harm our business and result in the loss of important data, increase our expenses and decrease our revenues. In the event that one or more of our primary technology or systems vendors goes into bankruptcy, ceases operations or fails to perform as promised, replacement services may not be readily available on a timely basis, at competitive rates or at all, and any transition time to a new system may be significant.  

Our automated systems cannot be completely protected against other events that are beyond our control, including natural disasters, power failures, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, data theft, equipment and software failures, computer viruses or telecommunications failures. Substantial or sustained system failures could cause service delays or failures and result in our customers purchasing tickets from other airlines. We cannot assure you that our security measures, change control procedures or disaster recovery plans are adequate to prevent disruptions or delays. Disruption in or changes to these systems could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

We face challenges in integrating our computer, communications and other technology systems.  

Among the principal risks of integrating our businesses and operations are the risks relating to integrating various computer, communications and other technology systems that will be necessary to operate US Airways and American as a single airline and to achieve cost synergies by eliminating redundancies in the businesses. While we have to date successfully integrated several of our systems, including our customer reservations system, we still have to complete several additional important system integration projects. The integration of these systems in a number of prior airline mergers has taken longer, been more disruptive and cost more than originally forecast. The implementation process to integrate these various systems will involve a number of risks that could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. New systems will replace multiple legacy systems and the related implementation will be a complex and time-consuming project involving substantial expenditures for implementation consultants, system hardware, software and implementation activities, as well as the transformation of business and financial processes.  

As with any large project, there will be many factors that may materially affect the schedule, cost and execution of the integration of our computer, communications and other technology systems. These factors include, among others: problems during the design, implementation and testing phases; systems delays and/or malfunctions; the risk that suppliers and contractors will not perform as required under their contracts; the diversion of management attention from daily operations to the project; reworks due to unanticipated changes in business processes; challenges in simultaneously activating new systems throughout our global network; difficulty in training employees in the operations of new systems; the risk of security breach or disruption; and other unexpected events beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our security measures, change control procedures or disaster recovery plans will be adequate to prevent disruptions or delays. Disruptions in or changes to these systems could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. Any of the foregoing could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

37  

Table of Contents 

We are at risk of losses and adverse publicity stemming from any accident involving any of our aircraft or the aircraft of our regional or codeshare operators.  

If one of our aircraft, an aircraft that is operated under our brand by one of our regional operators, or an aircraft that is operated by an airline with which we have a marketing alliance or codeshare relationship were to be involved in an accident, incident or catastrophe, we could be exposed to significant tort liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate, we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition, any accident, incident or catastrophe involving an aircraft operated by us, operated under our brand by one of our regional operators or operated by one of our codeshare partners could create a public perception that our aircraft or those of our regional operators or codeshare partners are not safe or reliable, which could harm our reputation, result in air travelers being reluctant to fly on our aircraft or those of our regional operators or codeshare partners, and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Delays in scheduled aircraft deliveries or other loss of anticipated fleet capacity, and failure of new aircraft to perform as expected, may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

The success of our business depends on, among other things, effectively managing the number and types of aircraft we operate. In many cases, the aircraft we intend to operate are not yet in our fleet, but we have contractual commitments to purchase or lease them. If for any reason we were unable to accept or secure deliveries of new aircraft on contractually scheduled delivery dates, this could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to integrate newly purchased aircraft into our fleet as planned might require us to seek extensions of the terms for some leased aircraft or otherwise delay the exit of certain aircraft from our fleet. Such unanticipated extensions or delays may require us to operate existing aircraft beyond the point at which it is economically optimal to retire them, resulting in increased maintenance costs. If new aircraft orders are not filled on a timely basis, we could face higher operating costs than planned. In addition, if the aircraft we receive do not meet expected performance or quality standards, including with respect to fuel efficiency and reliability, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.  

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and parts.  

We depend on a limited number of suppliers for aircraft, aircraft engines and many aircraft and engine parts. As a result, we are vulnerable to any problems associated with the supply of those aircraft, parts and engines, including design defects, mechanical problems, contractual performance by the suppliers, or adverse perception by the public that would result in customer avoidance or in actions by the FAA resulting in an inability to operate our aircraft.  

Our business has been and will continue to be affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including global events that affect travel behavior, and our results of operations could be volatile and fluctuate due to seasonality.  

Our business, results of operations and financial condition has been and will continue to be affected by many changing economic and other conditions beyond our control, including, among others:  

   •    actual or potential changes in international, national, regional, and local economic, business and financial conditions, including recession, inflation, higher interest rates, wars, terrorist attacks, or political instability;  

   •    changes in consumer preferences, perceptions, spending patterns, or demographic trends;  

   •    changes in the competitive environment due to industry consolidation, changes in airline alliance affiliations, and other factors;  

   •    actual or potential disruptions to the ATC systems;  

38  

Table of Contents 

   •    increases in costs of safety, security, and environmental measures;  

   •    outbreaks of diseases that affect travel behavior; and  

   •    weather and natural disasters.  

In particular, an outbreak of a contagious disease such as Ebola virus, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, H1N1 influenza virus, avian flu, Zika virus, or any other similar illness, if it were to persist for an extended period, could materially affect the airline industry and us by reducing revenues and adversely impacting our operations and passengers’ travel behavior. As a result of these or other conditions beyond our control, our results of operations could be volatile and subject to rapid and unexpected change. In addition, due to generally weaker demand for air travel during the winter, our revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year could be weaker than revenues in the second and third quarters of the year.  

A higher than normal number of pilot retirements and a potential shortage of pilots could adversely affect us.  

We currently have a higher than normal number of pilots eligible for retirement. Among other things, the extension of pilot careers facilitated by the FAA’s 2007 modification of the mandatory retirement age from age 60 to age 65 has now been fully implemented, resulting in large numbers of pilots in the industry approaching the revised mandatory retirement age. If pilot retirements were to exceed normal levels in the future, it may adversely affect us and our regional partners. On January 4, 2014, more stringent pilot flight and duty time requirements under Part 117 of the Federal Aviation Regulations took effect. In addition, in July 2013, the FAA issued regulations that increase the flight experience required for pilots working for airlines certificated under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations. These and other factors have in the past and could in the future contribute to a shortage of qualified pilots, particularly for our regional partners, which now face increased competition from large, mainline carriers to hire pilots to replace retiring pilots. If we or our regional partners are unable to hire adequate numbers of pilots, we may experience disruptions, increased costs of operations and other adverse effects.  

Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results.  

The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers. Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly, and our ability to continue to obtain insurance even at current prices remains uncertain. If we are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, severe disruptions in the domestic and global financial markets could adversely impact the claims paying ability of some insurers. Future downgrades in the ratings of enough insurers could adversely impact both the availability of appropriate insurance coverage and its cost. Because of competitive pressures in our industry, our ability to pass additional insurance costs to passengers is limited. As a result, further increases in insurance costs or reductions in available insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial results.  

We may be a party to litigation in the normal course of business or otherwise, which could affect our financial position and liquidity.  

From time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the United States, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. We are currently involved in various legal proceedings and claims that have not yet been fully resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Legal proceedings can be complex and take many months, or even years, to reach resolution, with the final outcome depending on a number of variables, some of which are not within our control. Litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. Although we will vigorously defend  

39  

Table of Contents 

 ourselves in such legal proceedings, their ultimate resolution and potential financial and other impacts on us are uncertain. For these and other reasons, we may choose to settle legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their actual merit. If a legal proceeding is resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. If our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to operate or market our services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. Additional information regarding certain legal matters in which we are involved can be found in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings.  

Our ability to utilize our NOL Carryforwards may be limited.  

Under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), a corporation is generally allowed a deduction for net operating losses (NOLs) carried over from prior taxable years (NOL Carryforwards). As of December 31, 2015, we had available NOL Carryforwards of approximately $8.0 billion for regular federal income tax purposes which will expire, if unused, beginning in 2023, and approximately $4.0 billion for state income tax purposes which will expire, if unused, between 2016 and 2034. As of December 31, 2015, the amount of NOL Carryforwards for state income tax purposes that will expire, if unused, in 2016 is $136 million. Our NOL Carryforwards are subject to adjustment on audit by the Internal Revenue Service and the respective state taxing authorities.  

A corporation’s ability to deduct its federal NOL Carryforwards and to utilize certain other available tax attributes can be substantially constrained under the general annual limitation rules of Section 382 of the Code (Section 382) if it undergoes an “ownership change” as defined in Section 382 (generally where cumulative stock ownership changes among material stockholders exceed 50 percent during a rolling three-year period). We experienced an ownership change in connection with our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases and US Airways Group experienced an ownership change in connection with the Merger. The general limitation rules for a debtor in a bankruptcy case are liberalized where the ownership change occurs upon emergence from bankruptcy. We elected to be covered by certain special rules for federal income tax purposes that permitted approximately $9.0 billion (with $6.6 billion of unlimited NOL still remaining at December 31, 2015) of our federal NOL Carryforwards to be utilized without regard to the annual limitation generally imposed by Section 382. If the special rules are determined not to apply, our ability to utilize such federal NOL Carryforwards may be subject to limitation. Substantially all of our remaining federal NOL Carryforwards (attributable to US Airways Group and its subsidiaries) are subject to limitation under Section 382 as a result of the Merger; however, our ability to utilize such NOL Carryforwards is not anticipated to be effectively constrained as a result of such limitation. Similar limitations may apply for state income tax purposes.  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, an ownership change subsequent to our emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases may severely limit or effectively eliminate our ability to utilize our NOL Carryforwards and other tax attributes. To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to utilize our NOL Carryforwards, our Certificate of Incorporation contains transfer restrictions applicable to certain substantial stockholders. Although the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent an ownership change from occurring, no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case our ability to utilize our NOL Carryforwards and other tax attributes could be severely limited or effectively eliminated.  

Our ability to use our NOL Carryforwards also will depend on the amount of taxable income generated in future periods. The NOL Carryforwards may expire before we can generate sufficient taxable income to use them.  

40  

Table of Contents 

The application of the acquisition method of accounting resulted in AAG and American recording a significant amount of goodwill, which is tested for impairment at least annually. In addition, AAG and American may never realize the full value of their respective intangible assets or long-lived assets, causing them to record material impairment charges.  

In accordance with applicable acquisition accounting rules, AAG and American recorded goodwill on their respective consolidated balance sheets to the extent the acquisition purchase price of US Airways Group and US Airways, respectively, exceeded the net fair value of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as of the applicable acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortized, but is tested for impairment at least annually. Also, in accordance with applicable accounting standards, AAG and American will be required to test their respective indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred. In addition, AAG and American are required to test certain of their other long-lived assets for impairment if conditions indicate that an impairment may have occurred.  

Future impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets could be recorded in results of operations as a result of changes in assumptions, estimates, or circumstances, some of which are beyond our control. Factors which could result in an impairment could include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced passenger demand as a result of domestic or global economic conditions; (ii) higher prices for jet fuel; (iii) lower fares or passenger yields as a result of increased competition or lower demand; (iv) a significant increase in future capital expenditure commitments; and (v) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events such as terrorist activities, actual or threatened war, labor actions by employees, or further industry regulation. There can be no assurance that a material impairment charge of goodwill or tangible or intangible assets will be avoided. The value of our aircraft could be impacted in future periods by changes in supply and demand for these aircraft. Such changes in supply and demand for certain aircraft types could result from grounding of aircraft by us or other airlines. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Risks Relating to AAG’s Common Stock  

The price of our common stock has recently been and may in the future be volatile.  

The market price of AAG Common Stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including:  

   •    AAG’s operating and financial results failing to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors;  

   •    changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts;  

   •    material announcements by us or our competitors;  

   •    movements in fuel prices;  

   •    expectations regarding our capital deployment program, including our share repurchase program and any future dividend payments that may be declared by our Board of Directors;  

   •    new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines;  

   •    general and industry-specific economic conditions;  

   •    the success or failure of AAG’s integration efforts;  

   •    changes in our key personnel;  

   •    distributions of shares of AAG Common Stock pursuant to the Plan, including distributions from the Disputed Claims Reserve established under the plan of reorganization upon the resolution of the underlying claims;  

   •    public sales of a substantial number of shares of AAG Common Stock or issuances of AAG Common Stock upon the exercise or conversion of convertible securities, options, warrants, RSUs, SARs, or similar rights;  

41  

Table of Contents 

   •    increases or decreases in reported holdings by insiders or other significant stockholders;  

   •    fluctuations in trading volume; and  

   •    changes in market values of airline companies as well as general market conditions.  

We cannot guarantee that we will repurchase our common stock pursuant to our share repurchase program or continue to pay dividends on our common stock or that our capital deployment program will enhance long-term stockholder value. Our capital deployment program could increase the volatility of the price of our common stock and diminish our cash reserves.  

Since July 2014, as part of our capital deployment program, our Board of Directors has approved several share repurchase programs aggregating $7.0 billion of authority of which, as of December 31, 2015, $2.4 billion remained unused under repurchase programs which are to be completed no later than December 31, 2016. Share repurchases under the repurchase programs may be made through a variety of methods, which may include open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, block trades or accelerated share repurchase transactions. These share repurchase programs do not obligate us to acquire any specific number of shares or to repurchase any specific number of shares for any fixed period, and may be suspended at any time at our discretion. The timing and amount of repurchases, if any, will be subject to market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. The repurchase program may be limited, suspended or discontinued at any time without prior notice.  

Although our Board of Directors commenced declaring quarterly cash dividends in July 2014 as part of our capital deployment program, any future dividends that may be declared and paid from time to time under our capital deployment program will be subject to market and economic conditions, applicable legal requirements and other relevant factors. Our capital deployment program does not obligate us to continue a dividend for any fixed period, and payment of dividends may be suspended at any time at our discretion. We will continue to retain future earnings to develop our business, as opportunities arise, and evaluate on a quarterly basis the amount and timing of future dividends based on our operating results, financial condition, capital requirements and general business conditions. The amount and timing of any future dividends may vary, and the payment of any dividend does not assure that we will be able to pay dividends in the future.  

In addition, repurchases of AAG Common Stock pursuant to our share repurchase program and any future dividends could affect our stock price and increase its volatility. The existence of a share repurchase program and any future dividends could cause our stock price to be higher than it would otherwise be and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our stock. Additionally, our share repurchase program and any future dividends will diminish our cash reserves, which may impact our ability to finance future growth and to pursue possible future strategic opportunities and acquisitions. Further, our share repurchase program may fluctuate such that our cash flow may be insufficient to fully cover our share repurchases. Although our share repurchase program is intended to enhance long-term stockholder value, there is no assurance that it will do so because the market price of our common stock may decline below the levels at which we repurchased shares of stock and short-term stock price fluctuations could reduce the program’s effectiveness.  

Certain provisions of AAG’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some of our stockholders might consider beneficial.  

Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Certificate of Incorporation) and Amended and Restated Bylaws (Bylaws) may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in our best interest and the best interest of our stockholders. These provisions include, among other things, the following:  

   •    advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholders’ meetings;  

42  

Table of Contents 

   •    the ability of our Board of Directors to fill vacancies on the board;  

   •    a prohibition against stockholders taking action by written consent;  

   •    a prohibition against stockholders calling special meetings of stockholders;  

   •    a requirement that holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors approve any amendment of our Bylaws submitted to stockholders for approval; and  

   •    super-majority voting requirements to modify or amend specified provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation.  

These provisions are not intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize the value of the interests of our stockholders. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable our Board of Directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits business combinations with interested stockholders. Interested stockholders do not include stockholders whose acquisition of our securities is approved by the Board of Directors prior to the investment under Section 203.  

AAG’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include provisions that limit voting and acquisition and disposition of our equity interests.  

Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include certain provisions that limit voting and ownership and disposition of our equity interests, including AAG Common Stock, AAG Series A Preferred Stock and convertible notes. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of AAG Common Stock and our other equity interests to vote such interests and adversely affect the ability of persons to acquire shares of AAG Common Stock and our other equity interests.  

In order to protect AAG’s NOL Carryforwards and certain other tax attributes, AAG’s Certificate of Incorporation includes certain limitations on acquisitions and dispositions of AAG’s Common Stock, which may limit the liquidity of our common stock.  

To reduce the risk of a potential adverse effect on our ability to use our NOL Carryforwards and certain other tax attributes for federal income tax purposes, our Certificate of Incorporation contains certain restrictions on the acquisition and disposition of AAG Common Stock by substantial stockholders. These restrictions may adversely affect the ability of certain holders of AAG Common Stock to dispose of or acquire shares of AAG Common Stock. Although the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent an “ownership change” (as defined in Section 382) from occurring, no assurance can be given that an ownership change will not occur even with these restrictions in place.  

The historical consolidated financial information contained in this report is not directly comparable to our financial information for prior or future periods.   

A number of factors render our historical consolidated financial information not directly comparable to our financial information for prior or future periods, including:  

   •    because the Merger was completed on December 9, 2013, AAG’s 2013 consolidated results of operations include the results of US Airways Group and its subsidiaries for only 23 days of 2013;  

   •    the Merger was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting with AAG as the acquiring entity, resulting in an adjustment to the carrying values of the assets and liabilities of US Airways Group compared to its historical carrying values; and  

43  

Table of Contents 

   •    during the course of our Chapter 11 Cases and in connection with our emergence from Chapter 11 and the effectiveness of the Plan, we recorded material expenses, charges, costs and other accounting entries related to our restructuring process, many of which generally had not been incurred in the past and are not expected to be incurred in the future.  

Due to these and other factors largely related to the Merger and the Plan, investors are cautioned as to the limitations of our historical financial statements and urged to review carefully Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

The Company had no unresolved Securities and Exchange Commission staff comments at December 31, 2015.  

44  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES