ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

AAG’s Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions  

The risk inherent in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the price of fuel, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as discussed below. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor do they consider additional actions management may take to mitigate our exposure to such changes. Therefore, actual results may differ. See Note 11 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A for additional discussion regarding risk management matters.  

Aircraft Fuel  

Our operating results are materially impacted by changes in the availability, price volatility and cost of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in our business. Because of the amount of fuel needed to operate our airlines, even a relatively small increase or decrease in the price of fuel can have a material effect on our costs and liquidity. Jet fuel market prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years with market spot prices ranging from a low of approximately $1.00 per gallon to a high of approximately $3.34 per gallon during the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2015.  

As of December 31, 2015, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding to hedge our fuel consumption. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices. Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors. Our 2016 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption is presently approximately 4.4 billion gallons, and based on this forecast, a one cent per gallon increase in aviation fuel price would result in a $44 million increase in annual expense.  

Foreign Currency  

We are exposed to the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. Our largest exposure comes from the British pound, Euro, Canadian dollar and various Latin American currencies, primarily the Brazilian real. We do not currently have a foreign currency hedge program. A uniform 10% relative strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from 2015 levels relative to each of the currencies in which we have foreign currency exposure would have resulted in an increase in our total nonoperating expense, net of approximately $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, and does not address any exposure to foreign currency held on our consolidated balance sheet.  

Generally, fluctuations in foreign currencies, including devaluations, cannot be predicted by us and can significantly affect the value of our assets located outside the United States. These conditions, as well as any further delays, devaluations or imposition of more stringent repatriation restrictions, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “We operate a global business with international operations that are subject to economic and political instability and have been, and in the future may continue to be, adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control” for additional discussion of this and other currency risks.  

Interest  

Our earnings are also affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on our interest income from short-term investments, and our interest expense from variable-rate debt instruments. Our largest exposure with respect to variable rate debt comes from changes in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). We had variable rate debt instruments representing approximately 38% of our total long-term debt at  

100  

Table of Contents 

 December 31, 2015. We currently do not have an interest rate hedge program. If our interest rates increased 10% in 2015, our interest expense would have increased by approximately $23 million.  

Additional information regarding our debt obligations as of December 31, 2015 is as follows (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

American’s Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions  

The risk inherent in American’s market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the price of fuel, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as discussed below. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor do they consider additional actions management may take to mitigate American’s exposure to such changes. Therefore, actual results may differ. See Note 9 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for additional discussion regarding risk management matters.  

Aircraft Fuel  

American’s operating results are materially impacted by changes in the availability, price volatility and cost of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in American’s business. Because of the amount of fuel needed to operate American, even a relatively small increase or decrease in the price of fuel can have a material effect on American’s costs and liquidity. Jet fuel market prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years with market spot prices ranging from a low of approximately $1.00 per gallon to a high of approximately $3.34 per gallon during the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2015.  

As of December 31, 2015, American did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding to hedge its fuel consumption. As such, and assuming American does not enter into any future transactions to hedge its fuel consumption, American will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices. American’s current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge its fuel consumption, although American reviews that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors. American’s 2016 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption is presently approximately 4.4 billion gallons, and based on this forecast, a one cent per gallon increase in aviation fuel price would result in a $44 million increase in annual expense.  

Foreign Currency  

American is exposed to the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. American’s largest exposure comes from the British pound, Euro, Canadian dollar and various Latin American currencies, primarily the Brazilian real. American does not currently have a foreign currency hedge. A uniform 10% strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from 2015 levels relative to each of the currencies in which American has foreign currency exposure would have resulted in an increase in its nonoperating expense, net of approximately $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, and does not address any exposure to foreign currency held on its consolidated balance sheet.  

Generally, fluctuations in foreign currencies, including devaluations, cannot be predicted by American and can significantly affect the value of American’s assets located outside the United States. These conditions, as well as  

101  

Table of Contents 

 any further delays, devaluations or imposition of more stringent repatriation restrictions, may materially adversely affect American’s business, results of operations and financial condition. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “We operate a global business with international operations that are subject to economic and political instability and have been, and in the future may continue to be, adversely affected by numerous events, circumstances or government actions beyond our control” for additional discussion of this and other currency risks.  

Interest  

American’s earnings are also affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on its interest income from short-term investments, and its interest expense from variable-rate debt instruments. American’s largest exposure with respect to variable rate debt comes from changes in the LIBOR. American had variable rate debt instruments representing approximately 41% of its total long-term debt at December 31, 2015. American currently does not have an interest rate hedge program. If American’s interest rates increased 10% in 2015, American’s interest expense would have increased by approximately $23 million.  

Additional information regarding American’s debt obligations as of December 31, 2015 is as follows (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

102  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 8A. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA OF AMERICAN AIRLINES GROUP INC.