Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

Our fiscal 2013 financial information is summarized in this Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the Consolidated Financial Statements, and related Notes. The following background is provided to readers to more fully understand our Company’s financial information.  

Patterson operates a distribution business in three complementary markets: dental supply, veterinary supply and rehabilitation supply. Historically, our strategy for growth focused on internal growth and the acquisition of smaller distributors and businesses offering related products and services to the dental market. In fiscal 2002, we expanded our strategy to take advantage of a parallel growth opportunity in the veterinary supply market by acquiring the assets of J. A. Webster, Inc. July 9, 2001, which we operated as Webster Veterinary Supply (Webster) until January 1, 2013. Webster is now known as Patterson Veterinary. Patterson added a third component to our business platform in fiscal 2004 when we entered the rehabilitation supply market with the acquisition of AbilityOne Products Corp. (“AbilityOne”) on September 12, 2003. AbilityOne is now known as Patterson Medical.  

Operating margins of the veterinary business are considerably lower than the dental and rehabilitation supply businesses. While operating expenses run at a lower rate in the veterinary business, their gross margin is substantially lower due generally to the low margins on the pharmaceutical products that are distributed.  

We operate with a 52-53 week accounting convention with our fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in April. Fiscal year 2011 included 53 weeks, with an additional or fourteenth week included in the first quarter ended July 31, 2010. Fiscal 2012 ending April 28, 2012 included 52 weeks, and the first quarter operations include thirteen weeks of activity compared to the prior year period. It is difficult to quantify precisely the impact of the extra week, but we have provided estimates in those areas where it is possible to make reasonable approximations. We estimate that the impact of the extra week reduced sales growth by one or two percentage points in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.  

There are several important aspects of Patterson’s business that are useful in analyzing it, including: (1) market growth in the various markets in which we operate; (2) internal growth; (3) growth through acquisition; and (4) continued focus on controlling costs and enhancing efficiency. Management defines “internal growth” as the increase in net sales from period to period, excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, and excluding the net sales, for a period of twelve months following the transaction date, of businesses we have acquired.  

One matter that has an overriding impact on our financial results for periods beginning after fiscal 2011 involves the level of expense associated with our Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”). For the twenty years up to and including fiscal 2011, allocations of shares to employees participating in the ESOP have been made almost entirely from shares of Company stock acquired by the ESOP in 1990 (“the 1990 Shares”). Although the accounting standards in effect in 1990 were subsequently revised, the accounting for the 1990 shares was grandfathered under the revised standards and called for the expensing of the shares released for allocation to employees to be based on the original cost of the shares.  

The revised standards require the expensing of shares released for allocation to be based on fair value of the shares at the time they are committed to be released. The shares acquired by the ESOP since the revision of the accounting standards, totaling approximately 3.6 million shares, will be released in annual amounts as determined by the Board of Directors. In fiscal 2012, we recognized incremental expense related to the ESOP of approximately $24 million. In fiscal 2013, we recognized expense of approximately $21 million. This estimated expense was recognized equally over the fiscal period and was a non-cash expense in the period since the shares were purchased in earlier periods.  

37  

Table of Contents 

The ESOP expense increased our operating expenses by approximately $24 million and $0.13 per diluted share in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011. This change from historical cost to fair value in recognizing ESOP expense creates a comparability discrepancy between our past and foreseeable future operating results.  

The following table presents the ESOP expense reconciliation for comparability purposes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In fiscal 2012, we made a cash contribution of approximately $24 million to the ESOP, which was then used by the ESOP to acquire shares through open market purchases. We instructed the ESOP trustee to hold these shares in suspense for allocation to employees at the end of the current ESOP fiscal year. Since the fiscal 2012 contribution to the ESOP was made in cash as opposed to using shares previously acquired by the ESOP, the expense for the current fiscal year will be a cash expense to us.  

During fiscal 2013, we repurchased approximately 5 million shares of our common stock at a cost of approximately $180 million. Through these repurchases and cash dividends, we returned more than $200 million of value to our shareholders.  

Results of Operations  

The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations over the past three fiscal years as a percent of sales:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fiscal 2013 Compared to Fiscal 2012  

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2013 were $3,637.2 million, an increase of 2.9%, from $3,535.7 million in fiscal 2012. The growth in sales includes a 0.6% contribution from acquisitions and a 0.2% unfavorable impact of changes in foreign currency translation rates.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Dental segment sales in fiscal 2013 rose 4.0% to $2,380.0 million from $2,287.9 million in fiscal 2012. The growth included a 0.2% contribution from acquisitions and a 0.1% unfavorable impact form changes in foreign currency translation rates. Consumable sales increased 1.3%. Dental equipment and software sales increased 9.8% in fiscal 2013 to $843.9 million due to strong CEREC sales, as well as an increase in sales of digital radiography products. Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, increased 2.8% in fiscal 2013.  

Veterinary segment sales grew 2.8% to $755.2 million despite the change in a nutritional distribution arrangement that reduced sales by 5.8%. Sales of consumables were 3.4% higher in fiscal 2013, or over 9% after adjusting for the impact of the change in the nutritional agreement. Acquisitions added 0.9% to sales in fiscal 2013. We have been investing in the Veterinary segment’s equipment and technical service offering to expand this unit’s full-service platform.  

Medical segment sales of $502.0 million decreased 2.2% from fiscal 2012. Acquisitions, contributed 1.6% of sales growth. The negative impact from foreign currency translation rates was 0.6% in fiscal 2013. We believe that continued uncertainty surrounding the U.S. health care system and the overall economy as well as continued austerity efforts in the United Kingdom are adversely affecting this segment.  

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin was 32.7% in fiscal 2013 and 32.9% in fiscal 2012. The Dental segment’s gross margin decreased 30 basis points to 35.9% in fiscal 2013. This decrease is mainly due to sales mix as equipment growth outpaced consumable growth during the year and as the segment effectuated the change in the CEREC product line, which negatively impacted margins. Gross margin of the Veterinary segment increased 60 basis points to 18.9% in fiscal 2013 due primarily to the change in the nutritional distribution arrangement, which carried a lower than average margin. The Medical segment’s gross margin declined 30 basis points to 38.7%, as a result of product mix.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio in fiscal 2013 was 23.0%, or 20 basis points higher than fiscal 2012. The Dental segment’s operating expense ratio increased 10 basis points. The Medical segment’s operating expenses as a percent of sales were 80 basis points higher in the current fiscal year, due to the integration expense in the Australian operations of the Surgical Synergies acquisition. The Veterinary segment’s operating expense ratio increased 40 basis points, mainly due to the reduced revenue from the nutritional agreement change and the addition of service technicians during the period.  

Operating Income. Operating income totaled $354.5 million, or 9.7% of sales, compared to prior fiscal year operating income of $358.0 million, or 10.1% of net sales for the reasons discussed above.  

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $36.4 million in fiscal 2013 compared to $30.3 million in fiscal 2012. This increase is due to the issuance of $325 million of debt in the third quarter of the prior year offset slightly by the repayment of $125 million of debt that matured late in fiscal 2013.  

Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was $3.1 million in fiscal 2013 compared to $2.1 million in fiscal 2012. Interest income totaled $4.5 million in fiscal 2013, compared to $4.9 million in fiscal 2012.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 34.5% in fiscal 2013 as compared to 35.5% in fiscal 2012. The effective tax rate decreased in fiscal 2013 primarily due to an increase in the deductible dividends paid on shares held by our Employee Stock Ownership Plan and deductions claimed for domestic manufacturing activities.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income decreased 1.2% to $210.3 million in fiscal 2013. Earnings per diluted share and dilutive shares outstanding were $2.03 and 103.8 million, respectively, in fiscal 2013 and $1.92 and 110.8 million, respectively, in fiscal 2012.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Fiscal 2012 Compared to Fiscal 2011  

As described in the Overview section above, the first quarter of fiscal 2011 included an extra week due to the Company’s fiscal year convention. Accordingly, the fiscal year ended April 30, 2011 included 53 weeks while the fiscal year ended April 28, 2012 included 52 weeks. We estimate that the impact of the extra week reduced sales growth by one to two percentage points in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011.  

Net Sales. Consolidated net sales in fiscal 2012 were $3,535.7 million, an increase of 3.5%, from $3,415.7 million in fiscal 2011. The growth in sales includes a 0.6% contribution from acquisitions and a 0.2% favorable impact of changes in foreign currency translation rates. Excluding the impact of the extra week, consolidated sales grew an estimated 5.1%.  

Dental segment sales in fiscal 2012 rose 3.7% to $2,287.9 million from $2,236.1 million in fiscal 2011. The impact of currency translation rates was a favorable 0.1%. Consumable sales increased 2.6%, although they remained sluggish due to continuing weak general economic trends, low consumer confidence and high unemployment.  

Dental equipment and software sales increased 5.3% in fiscal 2012 to $768.6 million. Sales of technology oriented equipment, including digital radiography and CAD/CAM products, accounted for the growth. Revenues from the sale of basic dental equipment infrastructure, primarily consisting of chairs, power units and cabinetry, continued to be soft in fiscal 2012, as practitioners focused purchases on products that they believed gave them higher returns in the near term.  

Other dental sales, consisting primarily of technical service parts and labor, software support services and artificial teeth, increased 4.1% in fiscal 2012.  

Veterinary sales grew 12.6% to $734.4 million. Sales of consumables were 10.9% higher in fiscal 2012 and equipment and software sales of $38.3 million represented an increase of 13.4% compared to fiscal 2011. Acquisitions added 1.5% to sales in fiscal 2012. Consumable sales in this segment have benefited from a higher percentage of pharmaceutical sales made under buy-sell versus agency distribution agreements, and an earlier and more severe flea, tick and heart worm season. We have been investing in the Veterinary segment’s equipment and technical service offering to expand this unit’s full-service platform.  

Patterson Medical sales of $513.3 million were 3.3% higher than fiscal 2011. Acquisitions contributed 2.3% of sales growth. The positive impact from foreign currency translation rates was 0.6% in fiscal 2012. The capital equipment portion of this segment was negatively impacted by uncertainty in the market caused by regulatory changes in healthcare  

Gross Margin. Consolidated gross margin was 32.9% in fiscal 2012 and 33.5% in fiscal 2011. The Dental segment’s gross margin decreased 30 basis points to 36.2% in fiscal 2012. This decrease is mainly due to sales mix as equipment growth outpaced consumable growth during the year. Gross margin of the Veterinary unit was 18.3%, a decrease of 100 basis points from 19.3% in fiscal 2011. Sales mix was the primary factor in the decline as a higher percentage of revenue came from pharmaceutical sales, which have a lower margin. Patterson Medical’s gross margin declined 10 basis points to 39.0%. This was driven by a slight decrease in point of sale margin and an increase in freight rates, both domestically and internationally.  

Operating Expenses. The consolidated operating expense ratio in fiscal 2012 was 22.8%, or 30 basis points higher than fiscal 2011. On a comparable basis, after adjusting for the increase in the ESOP expense discussed above, the operating expense ratio would have been 22.1%, or a decrease of nearly 40 basis points. The Dental unit’s operating expense ratio increased 110 basis points as this unit absorbs the majority of the ESOP expense. In addition, this segment was investing in training of sales personnel and deploying a new order entry system. The ratio of the Veterinary unit’s operating expenses as a percent of sales decreased 80 basis in the current year largely due to leverage of the higher sales levels. Patterson Medical’s operating expense ratio decreased 100 in fiscal 2012. The segment benefited from further integration of recent acquisitions and aggressive expense management.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Operating Income. Operating income was $358.0 million in fiscal 2012, compared to $376.0 million in fiscal 2011. Adjusting for the ESOP expense impact, operating income would have increased year-over-year.  

Interest Expense. Interest expense was $30.3 million in fiscal 2012 compared to $25.8 million in fiscal 2011. This increase is due to the issuance of $325 million of debt in the third quarter of the current year. The Company made the decision to raise additional debt capital to take advantage of the favorable rate environment.  

Other Income, net. Other income, net of other expenses, was $2.1 million in fiscal 2012 compared to $5.7 million in fiscal 2011. Interest income totaled $4.9 million in fiscal 2012, compared to $8.2 million in fiscal 2011. During fiscal 2011 the Company carried higher average balances of finance contracts while we modified agreements with our funding sources in the period.  

Income Taxes. The effective income tax rate was 35.5% in fiscal 2012 as compared to 36.7% in fiscal 2011. The effective tax rate decreased in fiscal 2012 as compared to fiscal 2011 primarily due to an increase in the deductible dividends paid on shares held by our Employee Stock Ownership Plan and the release of reserves resulting from expiring statute of limitations.  

Net Income and Earnings Per Share. Net income decreased 6.0% to $212.8 million in fiscal 2012 due primarily to the increase ESOP expense negatively impacting operating expense as discussed above. Adjusting for the impact of the extra week on fiscal 2011 and the incremental ESOP expense in fiscal 2012, net income would have increased approximately 3%. Earnings per diluted share and dilutive shares outstanding were $1.92 and 110.8 million, respectively, in fiscal 2012 and $1.89 and 119.1 million, respectively, in fiscal 2011.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

Patterson’s operating cash flow has been our principal source of liquidity in the last three fiscal years. During fiscal 2012, we used our revolving credit facility periodically as a source of liquidity in addition to operating cash flow. Operating activities generated cash of $299.2 million in fiscal 2013, compared to $321.2 million in fiscal 2012 and $262.6 million in fiscal 2011. Our operating activities are primarily driven by net income.  

Capital expenditures were $22.0, $29.7 and $36.9 million in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Significant expenditures in these years included the purchase and expansion of distribution facilities to accommodate multiple business units, the construction of a new facility for the Patterson Technology Center and continuing investments in information systems. In fiscal 2012, a project to build-out a purchased building in Indiana that serves as a distribution facility used by all three business units was completed. This facility is replacing several smaller distribution facilities. In addition, the Patterson Technology Center in Illinois was completed in fiscal 2012. This 100,000 square foot state-of-the-art facility replaced a nearby-leased location and opened in the second quarter of fiscal 2012.  

We expect to invest approximately $33 million in capital expenditures during fiscal 2014, our main investment is in information systems. We estimate that we will invest $55 million to $65 million over the next five years to transform our information systems. We estimate that approximately half of this amount with be capitalized over the project life. We are estimating that in incremental $10 million will be expensed in fiscal 2014.  

Cash used for acquisitions and equity investments totaled $14.6 million in fiscal 2013, $22.6 million in fiscal 2012 and $52.2 million in fiscal 2011. The majority of the cash used for acquisitions in fiscal 2013 related to the acquisitions of Iowa Dental Supply and Universal Vaporizer Support. The majority of the cash used for acquisitions in fiscal 2012 related to the acquisitions of American Veterinary Supply Corporation and Surgical Synergies.  

41  

Table of Contents 

In fiscal 2013, we retired $125 million of debt. In fiscal 2012, we entered into a new debt agreement for $325 million; see Note 7 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Long-term Debt” footnote for further information. There were neither issuances of, nor payments on, debt during fiscal 2011.  

Total dividends paid in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 were $43.7 million, $54.7 million and $50.0 million, respectively. We expect to continue to pay a quarterly cash dividend for the foreseeable future. In addition, during fiscal 2013, we repurchased approximately 5.0 million shares of common stock for approximately $180 million. In fiscal 2012, we repurchased approximately 12.0 million shares of common stock for approximately $362 million. In fiscal 2011, we repurchased approximately 3.3 million shares of common stock for approximately $99 million. Under a share repurchase plan authorized by the Board of Directors, as of March 19, 2013, Patterson may repurchase up to 25 million shares of its common stock. This authorization remains in effect through March 19, 2018.  

Management expects funds generated from operations and existing cash to be sufficient to meet our working capital needs for the next fiscal year. We have $505 million in cash and cash equivalents of which $252 million is in foreign bank accounts. None of which is subject to any withdrawal restrictions. See Note 11, “Income Taxes” for further information regarding our intention to permanently reinvest these funds. We expect to continue to obtain liquidity from the sale of equipment finance contracts. Patterson’s existing debt facilities are believed to be adequate as a supplement to internally generated cash flows to fund anticipated expansion plans and strategic initiatives, including acquisitions. In addition, we have a $300 million revolving credit facility which expires in fiscal 2017.  

Patterson sells a significant portion of our finance contracts (see below) to a commercial paper funded conduit managed by a third party bank, and as a result, commercial paper is indirectly an important source of liquidity for Patterson. Patterson is allowed to participate in the conduit due to the quality of our finance contracts and our financial strength. Cash flows could be impaired if our financial strength diminishes to a level that precluded us from taking part in this facility or other similar facilities. Also, market conditions outside of our control could adversely affect the ability for us to sell the contracts.  

Customer Financing Arrangements  

Patterson is a party to two arrangements under which we have sold finance contracts received from our customers to outside financial institutions. These arrangements provide sources of liquidity for us that would have to be replaced should any of the current financial institutions be unable or unwilling to continue under them.  

In December 2010, the Receivables Purchase Agreement was amended to make The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (“BTMU”) the managing agent. As of April 27, 2013, the total capacity under this agreement is $500 million, which includes $300 million with BTMU and the remainder with Royal Bank of Canada (RBC). In August 2011, Fifth Third Bank (FTB) replaced U.S. Bank National Association as the agent under the Contract Purchase Agreement, which has a capacity of $75 million as of April 27, 2013. Our financing business is described in further detail in Note 6, “Customer Financing.” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Note 6, discusses the nature and business purpose of the arrangements and the activity under each arrangement during fiscal 2013, including the amount of finance contracts sold and the holdback receivable owed to us.  

42  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations  

A summary of Patterson’s contractual obligations as of April 27, 2013 follows (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Patterson is unable to determine its contractual obligations by year related to the provisions of ASC Topic 740, “Income Taxes”, as the ultimate amount or timing of settlement of its reserves for income taxes cannot be reasonably estimated. The total liability for unrecognized tax benefits including interest and penalties at April 27, 2013, is $21.6 million.  

For a more complete description of Patterson’s contractual obligations, see Notes 7 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Outlook  

Over the last ten years, we have been able to grow revenue and earnings through our strategy of emphasizing value-added, full-service capabilities, using technology to enhance customer service, continuing to improve operating efficiencies, and growing through internal expansion and acquisitions. While the weakness in the general economy that has existed during the last several years is expected to continue to affect our performance for at least the near term, Patterson’s strategy will continue to focus on these key elements. With strong operating cash flow and available credit capacity, we are confident that we will be able to financially support our future growth. We believe that the strategic initiatives that we have implemented in the past several years, as well as those that will be implemented in fiscal 2013 and beyond, will strengthen our operational platform and contribute to future growth. Given these factors, we consider ourselves well positioned to capitalize upon the growth opportunities in the dental, companion animal veterinary and the worldwide rehabilitation supply markets.  

Asset Management  

The following table summarizes Patterson’s days sales outstanding (“DSO”) and inventory turnover the past three fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Receivables as of April 27, 2013, April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011 include approximately $9 million, $20 million and $19 million, respectively, of finance contracts received from customers related to certain financing promotions in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011. Patterson has sold contracts in fiscal 2013 and expects to sell the contracts held as of April 27, 2013 to outside institutions under an existing agreement during fiscal 2014. If these finance contracts are excluded from the calculation of DSO, the pro forma DSO would be 42, 43 and 46 as of April 27, 2013, April 28, 2012 and April 30, 2011, respectively.  

 (2) The inventory values used in this calculation are the LIFO inventory values for all inventories except for manufactured inventories and foreign inventories, which are valued using FIFO inventory methods.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Foreign Operations  

Foreign sales derive primarily from Patterson Dental and Patterson Medical operations in Canada and from Patterson Medical operations in the U.K., France and Australia. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates have not significantly impacted earnings. However, changes in exchange rates adversely affected net sales in fiscal 2013 and enhanced net sales in fiscal 2012 and 2011. Without foreign currency effects, net sales would have been $5.6 million higher, $6.1 million lower, and $12.4 million lower in fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Changes in currency exchange rates are a risk accompanying foreign operations, but this risk is not considered material with respect to our consolidated operations.  

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Patterson has adopted various accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Management believes that our policies are conservative and our philosophy is to adopt accounting policies that minimize the risk of adverse events having a material impact on recorded assets and liabilities. However, the preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and judgments regarding the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities based on the information available to management at the time. Changes subsequent to the preparation of the financial statements in economic, technological and competitive conditions may materially impact the recorded values of Patterson’s assets and liabilities. Therefore, the users of the financial statements should read all the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and be aware that conditions currently unknown to management may develop in the future. This may require a material adjustment to a recorded asset or liability to consistently apply to our significant accounting principles and policies that are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The financial performance and condition of Patterson may also be materially impacted by transactions and events that we have not previously experienced and for which we have not been required to establish an accounting policy or adopt a generally accepted accounting principle.  

Revenue Recognition – Revenues are generated from the sale of consumable products, equipment, software products and services, technical service parts and labor, freight and delivery charges, and other sources. Revenues are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and there is reasonable assurance of collection of the sale. Estimates for returns, damaged goods, rebates, loyalty programs and other revenue allowances are made at the time the revenue is recognized based on the historical experience for such items. In addition to revenues generated from the distribution of consumable products under conventional arrangements (buy/sell agreements) where the full market value of the product is recorded as revenue, the veterinary segment may earn a small amount of commission income for services provided under agency agreements with certain pharmaceutical manufacturers. The services generally consist of detailing the product and taking the customer’s order. The agency agreement contrasts to a buy/sell agreement in that the veterinary segment does not purchase and handle the product or bill and collect from the customer in an agency relationship with a vendor.  

Consumable product sales are recorded upon delivery, except in those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point. Commissions under agency agreements are recorded when the services are provided.  

Equipment and software product revenues are recognized upon delivery and, if necessary, installation. In those circumstances where terms of the sale are FOB shipping point, revenues are recognized when products are transferred to the shipping carrier. Revenue derived from post contract customer support for software is deferred and recognized ratably over the period in which the support is provided. Patterson provides financing for select equipment and software sales. Revenue is recorded at the present value of the finance contract, with discount, if any, and interest income recognized over the life of the finance contract as “other income”. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for more information regarding customer financing.  

Other revenue, including freight and delivery charges and technical service parts and labor, is recognized when the related product revenue is recognized or when the product or services are provided to the customer.  

44  

Table of Contents 

The receivables that result from the recognition of revenue are reported net of the related allowances discussed above. Patterson maintains a valuation allowance based upon the expected collectability of receivables held. Estimates are used to determine the valuation allowance and are based on several factors, including historical collection data, economic trends and credit worthiness of customers. Receivables are written off when we determine the amounts to be uncollectible, typically upon customer bankruptcy or non-response to continuous collection efforts. The portions of receivable amounts that are not expected to be collected during the next twelve months are classified as long-term.  

Patterson has a relatively large, dispersed customer base and no single customer accounts for more than 1% of consolidated net sales. In addition, the equipment sold to customers under finance contracts generally serves as collateral for the contract and the customer provides a personal guarantee as well.  

Patterson Advantage Loyalty Program – Patterson Dental provides a point-based awards program to qualifying customers involving the issuance of “Patterson Advantage dollars” which can be used toward equipment and technology purchases. The program was initiated on January 1, 2009 and runs on a calendar year schedule. Patterson Advantage dollars earned during a program year expire one year after the end of the program year. The cost and corresponding liability associated with the program is recognized as contra-revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605-50, “Revenue Recognition-Customer Payments and Incentives.” As of April 28, 2012, we believe we have sufficient experience with the program to reasonably estimate the amount of Patterson Advantage dollars that will not be redeemed and thus have recorded a liability for 87% of the maximum potential amount that could be redeemed. We use the redemption recognition method, and we recognize the estimated value of unused – Advantage dollars as redemptions occur. Breakage recognized was immaterial to all periods presented.  

Inventory and Reserves – Inventory consists primarily of merchandise held for sale and is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method for all inventories, except for foreign inventories and manufactured inventories, which are valued using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. We continually assess the valuation of inventories and reduce the carrying value of those inventories that are obsolete or in excess of forecasted usage to estimated realizable value. Estimates are made of the net realizable value of such inventories based on analyses and assumptions including, but not limited to, historical usage, future demand and market requirements.  

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets – Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets of businesses acquired. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets include copyrights, trade names and trademarks.  

We evaluate goodwill using a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of any reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we determine that the fair value of the reporting unit may be less than its carrying amount, we evaluate goodwill using a two-step impairment test. Otherwise, we conclude that no impairment is indicated and we do not perform the two-step impairment test.  

Goodwill for each reporting unit is evaluated using a two-step impairment test at the reporting unit level. Patterson has three reporting units at April 27, 2013, which are the same as our operating units. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the book value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, with its fair value, as determined by its discounted cash flows. If the book value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to determine the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recorded. The determination of fair value involves uncertainties because it requires management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry and economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Patterson conducts impairment testing based on current business strategy in light of present industry and economic conditions, as well as future expectations. Additionally, in assessing goodwill for impairment, the reasonableness of the implied control premium is considered based on market capitalizations and recent market transactions.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Other indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment by comparing the carrying value of an asset with its fair value. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to the excess. The determination of fair value involves assumptions, including projected revenues and gross profit levels, as well as consideration of any factors that may indicate potential impairment.  

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, management completed its annual goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests and determined there was no impairment. Although we believe estimates and assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such estimates and assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and financial results, including an impairment charge that could be material.  

The medical reporting unit was evaluated using the a quantitative assessment for impairment testing. This reporting unit has a higher level of sensitivity to impairment as management currently assesses the various estimates and assumptions used to conduct these tests. A significant reduction in these assumptions from further softening in medical utilizations in the U.S. or more severe austerity measures in the United Kingdom could cause us to recognize a material impairment charge on this reporting unit. At April 27, 2013, the estimated fair value of this reporting unit exceeded its book value by approximately 20%.  

Long-Lived Assets – Long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such assets. Our definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of an exclusive distribution agreement and customer lists. When impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value.  

Income Taxes – We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes.  

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the Company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the Company’s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the Company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The Company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made and could materially affect our financial results.  

To the extent that the provision for income taxes would have increased/decreased by 1 percent of income before taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/increased $3.2 million in fiscal 2013.  

Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets if, after assessment of available positive and negative evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be fully realized. The valuation allowance reflected in the footnote disclosure relates to net operating loss carryforwards of Mobilis Healthcare Group, which was acquired during Fiscal 2009 and is principally based in the United Kingdom.  

Self-insurance – Patterson is self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, product liability, automobile, workers’ compensation and medical claims. We estimate our liabilities based upon an analysis of historical data and actuarial estimates. While current estimates are believed reasonable based on information currently available, actual results could differ and affect financial results due to changes in the amount or frequency of claims, medical cost inflation or other factors. Historically, actual results related to these types of claims have not varied significantly from estimated amounts.  

46  

Table of Contents 

Stock-based Compensation – We recognize stock-based compensation based on certain assumptions including inputs within the Black-Scholes Model and estimated forfeitures. These assumptions require subjective judgment and changes in the assumptions can materially affect fair value estimates. Management assesses the assumptions and methodologies used to estimate forfeitures and to calculate estimated fair value of stock-based compensation on a regular basis. Circumstances may change, and additional data may become available over time, which could result in changes to these assumptions and methodologies and thereby materially impact the fair value determination or estimates of forfeitures. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, the amount of compensation expense associated with stock-based compensation may differ significantly from what was recorded in the current period.  

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK