ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 

OPERATIONS 

This discussion includes references to non-GAAP financial measures as defined in the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (‘SEC’). We present such non-GAAP financial measures, specifically, adjusted, constant currency and organic non-GAAP financial measures, as we believe such information is of interest to the investment community because it provides additional meaningful methods of evaluating certain aspects of the Company’s operating performance from period to period on a basis that may not be otherwise apparent under U.S. GAAP, and these provide a measure against which our businesses may be assessed in the future. 

Our methods of calculating these measures may differ from those used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. These financial measures should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016. 

See ‘Non-GAAP Financial Measures’ below for further discussion of our adjusted, constant currency and organic non-GAAP financial measures. 

This discussion includes forward-looking statements. See ‘Disclaimer Regarding Forward-looking Statements’ for certain cautionary information regarding forward-looking statements and ‘Risk Factors’ in Item 1A for a list of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted in those statements. 

Executive Overview

Business Overview

Willis Towers Watson is a global advisory, broking and solutions company that helps clients around the world turn risk into a path for growth. With roots dating to 1828, Willis Towers Watson has more than 41,000 employees and services clients in more than 140 countries and territories. We design and deliver solutions that manage risk, optimize benefits, cultivate talent, and expand the power of capital to protect and strengthen institutions and individuals. We believe our unique perspective allows us to see the critical intersections between talent, assets and ideas - the dynamic formula that drives business performance. 

We offer clients a broad range of services to help them to identify and control their risks, and to enhance business performance by improving their ability to attract, retain and engage a talented workforce. Our risk control services range from strategic risk consulting (including providing actuarial analysis), to a variety of due diligence services, to the provision of practical on-site risk control services (such as health and safety or property loss control consulting), as well as analytical and advisory services (such as hazard modeling and reinsurance optimization studies). We assist clients in planning how to manage incidents or crises when they occur. These services include contingency planning, security audits and product tampering plans. We help our clients enhance their business performance by delivering consulting services, technology and solutions that help organizations anticipate, identify and capitalize on emerging opportunities in human capital management as well as investment advice to help our clients develop disciplined and efficient strategies to meet their investment goals. 

As an insurance broker, we act as an intermediary between our clients and insurance carriers by advising our clients on their risk management requirements, helping clients determine the best means of managing risk and negotiating and placing insurance with insurance carriers through our global distribution network. We operate the largest private Medicare exchange in the U.S. Through this exchange and those for active employees, we help our clients move to a more sustainable economic model by capping and controlling the costs associated with healthcare benefits.

We are not an insurance company, and therefore we do not underwrite insurable risks for our own account. 

We derive the majority of our revenue from either commissions or fees for broking or consulting services. No single client represented a significant concentration of our consolidated revenues for any of the periods presented. 

Our shares are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 

Market Conditions

Due to the cyclical nature of the insurance market and the impact of other market conditions on insurance premiums, commission revenues may vary widely between accounting periods. A period of low or declining premium rates, generally known as a ‘soft’ or ‘softening’ market, generally leads to downward pressure on commission revenues and can have a material adverse impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. A ‘hard’ or ‘firming’ market, during which premium rates rise, generally has a favorable impact on our commission revenues and operating margin. Rates, however, vary by geography, 

37

industry and client segment. As a result, and due to the global and diverse nature of our business, we view rates in the aggregate. 

Market conditions in our broking industry are generally defined by factors such as the strength of the economies in the various geographic regions in which we serve around the world, insurance rate movements, and insurance and reinsurance buying patterns of our clients. 

Management has considered the U.K. referendum vote on June 23, 2016 to depart from the E.U. and the uncertainties about the near-term and longer-term effects of Brexit on the Company. The terms of Brexit, and its impact, are highly uncertain. For a further discussion of the risks of Brexit to the Company, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Typically, our business benefits from regulatory change, political risk or economic uncertainty. Insurance broking generally tracks the economy, but demand for both insurance broking and consulting services usually remains steady during times of uncertainty. We believe that the U.K. has good long-term growth opportunities and, given that, we believe the impact to Willis Towers Watson will be neutral to slightly positive over the next couple of years, with some periods of increase and decrease in that time frame. We have some businesses, such as our health and benefits and administration businesses, which can be counter cyclical during the early period of a significant economic change. 

Although approximately 23% of our revenues are generated in the U.K. on an annual basis, only about 14% of revenues are denominated in Pounds sterling as much of the insurance business is transacted in U.S. dollars. Approximately 20% of our expenses are denominated in Pounds sterling, thus we generally benefit from a weakening Pound in our income from operations. However, we have a company hedging strategy for this aspect of our business, where revenues are generated in currencies different from the currency of the related expenses, which is designed to mitigate significant fluctuations in currency. 

The market for our consulting, technology and solutions, and private exchange services is subject to change as a result of economic, regulatory and legislative changes, technological developments, and increased competition from established and new competitors. Regulatory and legislative actions, along with continuously evolving technological developments, will likely have the greatest impact on the overall market for our exchange products. We believe the primary factors in selecting a human resources or risk management consulting firm include reputation, the ability to provide measurable increases to shareholder value and return on investment, global scale, quality of service and the ability to tailor services to clients’ unique needs. With regard to the market for exchanges, we believe that clients base their decisions on a variety of factors that include the ability of the provider to deliver measurable cost savings for clients, a strong reputation for efficient execution, a provider's capability in delivering a broad number of configurations to serve various population segments and financing options, and an innovative service delivery model and platform. 

See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussions of risks that may affect our ability to compete. 

Business Strategy

Willis Towers Watson sees that a unified approach to people and risk can be a path to growth for our clients. Our integrated teams bring together our understanding of risk strategies and market analytics. This helps clients around the world to achieve their objectives. 

We operate in attractive markets - both growing and mature - with a diversified platform across geographies, industries, segments and lines of business. We aim to create and become the premier advisory, broking and solutions company of choice globally. We design and deliver solutions that manage risk, optimize benefits, cultivate talent, and expand the power of capital to protect and strengthen institutions and individuals. We also help organizations improve performance through effective people, risk and financial management, by focusing on providing human capital and financial consulting services. 

We believe we can achieve this by: 

•Delivering a powerful client proposition with an integrated global platform. Our highly complementary offerings provide comprehensive advice, analytics, specialty capabilities and solutions covering benefits, exchange solutions, brokerage and advisory, risk and capital management, and talent and rewards; 

•Leveraging our combined distribution strength and global footprint to enhance market penetration and provide a platform for further innovation; and 

38

•Underpinning this growth through continuous operational improvement initiatives that help make us more effective and efficient and drive cost synergies. We do this by: 

◦continuing to modernize the way we run our business to better serve our clients, enable the skills of our staff, and lower our costs of doing business;  

◦making the necessary changes to our processes, our IT, our real estate and workforce locations; and  

◦targeting and delivering identified, highly achievable cost savings as a direct consequence of the Merger. 

We care as much about how we work as we do about the impact that we make. This means commitment to shared values, a framework that guides how we run our business and serve clients. 

Through these strategies we aim to accelerate revenue, cash flow, EBITDA and earnings growth, and generate compelling returns for investors by delivering tangible growth in revenues and capitalizing on the identified cost synergies. 

Merger with Towers Watson

On January 4, 2016, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated June 29, 2015, as amended on November 19, 2015, between Willis, Towers Watson, and Citadel Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Willis formed for the purpose of facilitating this transaction (‘Merger Sub’), Merger Sub merged with and into Towers Watson, with Towers Watson continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Willis. 

At the effective time of the Merger (the ‘Effective Time’), each issued and outstanding share of Towers Watson common stock (the ‘Towers Watson shares’), was converted into the right to receive 2.6490 validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable ordinary shares of Willis (the ‘Willis ordinary shares’), $0.000115 nominal value per share, other than any Towers Watson shares owned by Towers Watson, Willis or Merger Sub at the Effective Time and the Towers Watson shares held by stockholders who are entitled to and who properly exercised dissenter’s rights under Delaware law. 

Immediately following the Merger, Willis effected (i) a consolidation (i.e., a reverse stock split under Irish law) of Willis ordinary shares whereby every 2.6490 Willis ordinary shares were consolidated into one Willis ordinary share $0.000304635 nominal value per share and (ii) an amendment to its Constitution and other organizational documents to change its name from Willis Group Holdings Public Limited Company to Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company. 

We are continuing our integration of Legacy Willis and Legacy Towers Watson, creating a unified platform for global growth, including positioning the Company to leverage our mutual distribution strength to enhance market penetration, expand our global footprint and create a strong platform for further innovation. 

During the second quarter of 2016, we began managing our business and reporting our segmental results across four integrated reportable operating segments: Human Capital and Benefits; Corporate Risk and Broking; Investment, Risk and Reinsurance; and Exchange Solutions. 

39

As Reported Consolidated Financial Information

The table below sets forth our consolidated statements of operations and data as a percentage of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014. 

Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations 

(in millions of U.S. dollars, except per share data) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Merger affects the comparability of this data between 2016 and other periods presented. See ‘Supplementary Pro Forma Financial Information’ for additional analysis. 

Revenues 

We derive the majority of our revenues from commissions from our brokerage businesses and fees for consulting services. Brokerage income and fees negotiated in lieu of commissions are recognized at the later of the policy inception date or when the policy placement is complete or as the fees are otherwise determined. Commissions on additional premiums and adjustments are recognized when approved by or agreed between the parties and collectability is reasonably assured. Consulting revenue is generally recognized as services are performed. No single client represented a significant concentration of our consolidated revenues for any of our three most recent fiscal years. 

The following table details our top five markets based on percentage of consolidated revenues from the countries where work is performed for the year ended December 31, 2016. These figures do not represent the currency of the related revenue, which is presented in the succeeding table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

40

The table below details our revenues and expenses by transactional currency for the year ended December 31, 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________ 

(i)These percentages exclude certain expenses for significant items which will not be settled in cash, or which we believe to be items that are not core to our current or future operations. These items include Merger-related amortization of intangible assets, restructuring costs, and transaction and integration expenses. 

The following table sets out the total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 and the components of the change in total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $7.9 billion, compared to $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $4.1 billion or 106%. This growth in revenues was driven by our Merger with Towers Watson and our acquisition of Gras Savoye. 

Our revenues can be materially impacted by changes in currency conversions, which can fluctuate significantly over the course of a calendar year. For the year ended December 31, 2016, currency translation decreased our consolidated revenues by $111 million. The primary currency driving the change was the Pound sterling, which weakened against the U.S. dollar during the year ended December 31, 2016. 

The following table sets out the total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 and the components of the change in total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $3.8 billion, compared to $3.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase of $27 million, or 1%. This growth in revenues was driven primarily by a $115 million organic growth in commissions and fees and a net $157 million increase through acquisitions, partially offset by a $15 million organic decline in interest and other income and $230 million in adverse foreign currency movements. 

In 2015, the foreign currency impact was as a result of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against a number of currencies, most significantly the Euro and the Pound sterling. 

Definitions of Constant Currency Change and Organic Change are included in the section entitled ‘Non-GAAP Financial Measures’ in this Form 10-K.

Salaries and Benefits 

Total salaries and benefits for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were $4.6 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, an increase of $2.3 billion. The growth in expenses was primarily driven by the Merger and our acquisition of Gras Savoye. Salaries and benefits for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were $2.3 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, a decrease of $11 million. The decrease was primarily related to an additional $109 million related to acquisitions and $31 million from increased headcount, pay reviews, and higher incentives, offset by $148 million of favorable foreign currency movements. As a percentage of commissions and fees revenues, salaries and benefits expenses represented 60%, 60% and 61% for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

41

Other Operating Expenses 

Other operating expenses include occupancy, legal, marketing, licenses, royalties, supplies, technology, printing and telephone costs, as well as insurance, including premiums on excess insurance and losses on professional liability claims, non-client-reimbursed travel by colleagues, publications, professional subscriptions and development, recruitment, other professional fees and irrecoverable value added and sales taxes. 

Other operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were $1.6 billion and $718 million, respectively, an increase of $833 million. The growth in expenses was primarily driven by the Merger and our acquisition of Gras Savoye. Other operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were $718 million and $659 million, respectively, an increase of $59 million. This growth included a net $36 million increase from acquisitions and disposals, and a $70 million increase relating to the provision for the Stanford litigation. Growth was partially offset primarily by $42 million of favorable foreign currency movements. 

Depreciation  

Depreciation represents the expense incurred over the useful life of our tangible fixed assets and internally developed software. Depreciation for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 was $178 million and $95 million, respectively, an increase of $83 million. The growth in expenses was primarily driven by the Merger and our acquisition of Gras Savoye. Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 was $95 million and $92 million, respectively, an increase of $3 million. The increase of $3 million included an organic increase of $4 million and a net $4 million increase from acquisitions and disposals, partially offset by $5 million of favorable foreign currency movements. 

Amortization 

Amortization includes amortization of acquired intangible assets, including acquired internally developed software. Amortization for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 was $591 million and $76 million, respectively, an increase of $515 million. The primary driver of the increase in amortization was our acquisition of approximately $4.0 billion in intangible assets in our Merger with Towers Watson and our acquisition of $231 million and $440 million of intangible assets related to our acquisitions of Miller and Gras Savoye, respectively. Amortization for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $76 million, an increase of $22 million compared to December 31, 2014. The increase primarily reflects the increased expense related to our acquisitions of Charles Monat and Max Matthiessen, partially offset by the ongoing reduction in the Hilb Rogal Hobbs Company, a wholly owned subsidiary, acquisition amortization. 

Restructuring Costs 

Restructuring costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $193 million of which $145 million related to the Operational Improvement Program (‘OIP’) and $48 million relating to the Business Restructure Program. Restructuring costs for the years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were $126 million and $36 million, respectively, all of which was related to the OIP. See our discussion in the Operational Improvement Program and Business Restructure Program section herein and Note 5 — Restructuring Costs within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details about these expenses. 

Transaction and integration expenses 

Transaction and integration expenses include fees and charges associated with our mergers and acquisitions and principally consist of integration consultants and contract termination fees, as well as legal, accounting, marketing, and information technology transaction and integration expenses. These costs also include retention and severance costs and the write-off of software development as a direct consequence of the Merger. Transaction and integration expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $177 million. Approximately $162 million of these expenses were related to the Merger and $15 million were related to the acquisition of Gras Savoye. Transaction and integration expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $84 million. Approximately $58 million of these expenses were related to the Merger, $15 million were related to the acquisition of Gras Savoye and $11 million were related to our acquisition of Miller. Transaction and integration expenses for 2014 were included in other operating costs and are immaterial for reclassification. 

Income from Operations 

Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $551 million compared to $427 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $124 million, or 29%. This growth in income from operations compared to that of 2015 was primarily driven by the Merger and our acquisition of Gras Savoye. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $427 million compared to $647 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, a decrease of $220 million. This was primarily due to the $90 million increase in restructuring costs related to the Operational Improvement Program, the $70 million increase in the litigation provision relating to the Stanford litigation and an increase in expenses as the mid-year 

42

acquisition of Miller resulted in its expenses initially exceeding the increase in revenues generated by the acquisition, due to the seasonal profile of the business. 

Interest expense 

Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $184 million, $142 million and $135 million, respectively. Interest expense is primarily related to interest on our senior notes and term loans. Interest expense increased by $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, which was primarily related to additional debt acquired in the Merger and as part of the acquisition of Gras Savoye. Interest expense increased by $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, which was primarily related to the $8 million increase in the unwind of the discount on contingent and deferred considerations. 

Other expense/(income), net 

Other expense/(income), net, includes other gains and losses, including gains and losses on foreign currency transactions. 

Other expense/(income), net for the year ended December 31, 2016 was an expense of $27 million, which was primarily foreign currency transaction losses. Other expense/(income), net for the year ended December 31, 2015 was income of $55 million, which included gains on disposal of operations of $25 million, gain on remeasurement of equity interests related to the Gras Savoye acquisition of $59 million, partially offset by the $30 million impact of the Venezuelan currency devaluation. Other expense/(income), net for the year ended December 31, 2014 was income of $6 million which included gains on disposals of operations of $12 million and gains related to foreign currency transactions of $8 million, partially offset by the $14 million impact of the Venezuelan currency devaluation. 

(Benefit from)/Provision for Income Taxes 

(Benefit from)/provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $(96) million, $(33) million and $159 million, respectively. The benefit from income taxes in 2016 was primarily due to the release of a portion of U.S. valuation allowances and shifts in the global mix of income as a result of the Merger. This shift creates additional deductions in jurisdictions with high statutory income tax rates, which reduces the global effective tax rate. The benefit from income taxes in 2015 was primarily due to an income tax benefit from the release of a portion of U.S. valuation allowances.  

Net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson 

Net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $420 million, an increase of $47 million compared to $373 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The growth was primarily driven by an improvement of $124 million in income from operations and an increase of $63 million in the benefit from income taxes, partially offset by a $42 million increase in interest expense and an $82 million increase to expense in other expense/(income), net. Net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $373 million, an increase of $11 million compared to $362 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. This increase was primarily driven by a decrease of $192 million in the provision for income taxes and an increase of $49 million income from other expense/(income), net, partially offset by a decrease of $220 million in income from operations and a $7 million increase in interest expense. 

As Reported Segment Revenues Analysis

During the second quarter of 2016, we began managing our business across four integrated reportable operating segments. As a result, the Company has changed the way it manages and reports segment revenues and operating income, resulting in a change in the Company’s reportable segments from eight reportable segments, formerly known as Willis International; Willis North America; Willis Capital, Wholesale & Reinsurance; Willis GB; Towers Watson Benefits; Towers Watson Exchange Solutions; Towers Watson Risk and Financial Services; and Towers Watson Talent and Rewards, into four reportable segments: Human Capital and Benefits; Corporate Risk and Broking; Investment, Risk and Reinsurance; and Exchange Solutions. 

All prior period segment revenues information has been recast from our historically reported filings to conform to the current reportable segment structure. 

Segment revenues exclude amounts that were directly incurred on behalf of our clients and reimbursed by them (reimbursed expenses); however, these amounts are included in consolidated revenues. 

The Merger affects the comparability of this data between 2016 and other periods presented. See ‘Supplementary Pro Forma Segment Revenues Analysis’ for additional analysis. 

43

Beginning with 2017, we are realigning teams within some segments and will update our corporate expense allocation methodology to move additional costs which were formerly identified as corporate costs into the segments. We may continue to refine teams, business units and the cost allocation methodology as we continue the integration phase of the Merger.  

Human Capital and Benefits 

The Willis Towers Watson Human Capital & Benefits (‘HCB’) segment provides an array of advice, broking, solutions and software for employee benefit plans, the HR organization and the management teams of our clients. 

HCB is the largest segment of the Company, generating approximately 41% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016. HCB is focused on addressing our clients’ people and risk needs to help them take on the challenges of operating in a global marketplace. HCB is further strengthened with teams of international consultants that provide support through each of our business units to the global headquarters of multinational clients and their foreign subsidiaries. 

The HCB segment provides services through four business units: 

•Retirement — The Retirement business provides actuarial support, plan design, and administrative services for traditional pension and retirement savings plans. Our colleagues help our clients assess the costs and risks of retirement plans on cash flow, earnings and the balance sheet, the effects of changing workforce demographics on their retirement plans and retiree benefit adequacy and security. 

•Health and Benefits — The Health & Benefits (‘H&B’) business provides plan management consulting, broking and administration across the full spectrum of health and group benefit programs, including medical, dental, disability, life and other coverage. 

•Talent & Rewards — Our Talent & Rewards (‘T&R’) business covers three areas of specialty: Executive Compensation (‘EC’); Rewards, Talent & Communication (‘RTC’); and Data, Surveys and Technology (‘DST’). T&R provides advice, data, software and products to address clients’ total rewards and talent issues. 

•Technology and Administration Solutions — Our Technology and Administration Solutions (‘TAS’) business provides benefits outsourcing services to clients outside of the U.S. 

The table below presents segment commissions and fees and segment interest and other income for HCB for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

HCB total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $3.2 billion, compared to $698 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $2.5 billion or 362%. This growth in revenues was driven by our Merger and our acquisition of Gras Savoye. See the ‘Supplementary Pro Forma Segment Revenues Analysis’ section below for additional discussion of our 2016 results. 

HCB total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $698 million, compared to $655 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase of $43 million or 7%. HCB recorded mid-single-digit growth driven by organic growth and our strategic acquisition of Evolution Benefits Consulting in 2015. 

Corporate Risk and Broking 

Our Corporate Risk & Broking (‘CRB’) segment provides a broad range of risk advice, insurance brokerage and consulting services to clients worldwide ranging from small businesses to multinational corporations. We deliver integrated global solutions tailored to client needs and underpinned by data and analytics. 

CRB generated 32% of Willis Towers Watson revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016, and places more than $20 billion of premiums into the insurance markets, annually. 

CRB operates as an integrated global team comprising both functional and geographic leadership with five global offerings: 

44

•Property and Casualty — Property and Casualty provides property and liability insurance brokerage services across a wide range of industries including construction, real estate, healthcare, and natural resources. 

•Financial Lines — Financial Lines specializes in brokerage services for financial, political and credit risks. 

•Transport — Transport provides specialist expertise to the transportation, aerospace, marine and space industries. 

•Affinity — Affinity arranges the insurance products and services for our client partners to offer to their customers, employees or members alongside, or in addition to, their principal business activities. 

•Facultative — Facultative serves as a broker or intermediary for insurance companies looking to arrange reinsurance solutions across classes of risk, which enable them to deliver differentiated outcomes to their direct insureds. 

The table below presents segment commissions and fees, and segment interest and other income for CRB for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CRB total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $2.5 billion, compared to $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $213 million or 9%. The growth for the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily due to the acquisition of Gras Savoye, which occurred on December 29, 2015. Great Britain led organic growth with solid revenue increases across all lines of business. Western Europe contributed to organic growth with strong growth in Iberia, partially offset by softness in Italy. North America was flat with strong retention offset by lower new business. International organic revenue declined as a result of lower revenues in Asia and Australasia, partially offset by better performance in Latin America and Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa (‘CEEMEA’). 

CRB total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $2.3 billion, compared to $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014, a decrease of $63 million or 3%. This decrease in revenues was driven by negative currency movements, partially offset by growth in the construction practice in North America, as well as growth in financial lines, property & casualty and aerospace in Great Britain. 

Investment, Risk and Reinsurance 

The Willis Towers Watson Investment, Risk and Reinsurance (‘IRR’) segment applies a sophisticated approach to risk which helps clients free up capital and manage investment complexity. The segment works closely with investors, reinsurers and insurers to manage the equation between risk and return. IRR provides investment consulting services and insurance specific services and solutions through reserves opinions, software, ratemaking, usage-based insurance, risk underwriting, and reinsurance broking. 

This segment is our third largest segment and generated approximately 19% of revenues for the Company for the year ended December 31, 2016. With approximately 80% of the revenues for this segment split between North America and the U.K., this segment includes the following businesses and offerings: 

•Willis Re — Willis Re provides reinsurance industry clients with an understanding of how risk affects capital and financial performance and advises on the best ways to manage related outcomes. 

•Risk Consulting and Software — Risk Consulting and Software is a global business that provides advice and technology solutions to the insurance industry, as well as to corporate clients with respect to their insurance programs. Services include software and technology, risk and capital management, products and pricing, financial and regulatory reporting, financial and capital modeling, M&A, outsourcing and business management.  

•Investment — Investment provides advice to improve investment outcomes for asset owners using a broad and sophisticated framework for managing risk.  

•Wholesale Insurance Broking — Wholesale provides wholesale and specialist broking services to retail brokers. 

45

•Portfolio and Underwriting Services — Portfolio and Underwriting Services acts on behalf of our insurance carrier partners and self-insured entities in product marketing and distribution, risk underwriting and selection, claims management and other general administrative responsibilities.  

•Capital Markets & Advisory — Capital Markets & Advisory provides investment banking services to companies involved in the insurance and reinsurance industries for a broad array of merger and acquisition transactions as well as capital markets products. 

The table below presents segment commissions and fees, and segment interest and other income for IRR for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

IRR total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $1.4 billion, compared to $813 million for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $628 million or 77%. This growth in revenues was driven by the Merger and a full year of revenues from Miller, following our acquisition in May 2015. See the ‘Supplementary Pro Forma Segment Revenues Analysis’ section below for additional discussion of our 2016 results. 

IRR total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $813 million, compared to $766 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, an increase of $47 million or 6%. The growth was driven by our acquisition of Miller Insurance Services, with additional organic growth in Reinsurance and Capital Markets & Advisory, partially offset by the negative impact from foreign currency translation and a $12 million settlement received in 2014. 

Exchange Solutions 

The Willis Towers Watson Exchange Solutions (‘ES’) segment provides primary medical and ancillary benefit exchange and outsourcing services to active employees and retirees across both the group and individual markets. A significant portion of the revenues in this segment is recurring in nature, driven by either the commissions from the policies we sell, or from long-term service contracts with our clients that typically range from three to five years. Revenues across this segment may be seasonal, driven by the magnitude and timing of client transition activities, and we typically increase our membership levels significantly effective January 1, after calendar year-end benefits elections. 

ES generated approximately 8% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016. ES provides services across four integrated or related offerings to customers primarily in the U.S. through four business units: 

•Retiree & Access Exchanges — This business provides solutions through a proprietary technology platform, OneExchange Retiree, which enables our employer clients to transition their retirees to individual, defined contribution health plans that provide individuals with a tax-free allowance or contribution to spend on healthcare services at an annual cost that the employer controls, as opposed to group-based, defined benefit health plans that provide groups of individuals with healthcare benefits at uncertain annual costs. 

•Active Exchanges — This business is focused on delivering group benefit exchanges, serving the active employees of employers across the United States through our proprietary BenefitConnect or Bright Choices exchange platforms. 

•Technology and Administration Solutions — Through our proprietary BenefitConnect technology, this business provides a broad suite of health and welfare outsourcing services as well as decision support and modeling tools for pension users within the U.S. 

•Consumer-Directed Accounts — This business uses its SaaS-based technology and related services to deliver consumer-driven healthcare and reimbursement accounts, including health savings accounts, health reimbursement arrangements and other consumer-directed accounts. 

46

The table below presents segment commissions and fees, and segment interest and other income for ES for the year ended December 31, 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ES total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $654 million. ES was not part of our business operations prior to the Merger. See the ‘Supplementary Pro Forma Segment Revenues Analysis’ section below for additional discussion of our 2016 results. 

Supplementary Pro Forma Financial Information 

To assist the reader in understanding our comparative analysis, we have included discussion and analysis of pro forma financial information for Willis Towers Watson as if the Towers Watson Merger had occurred on January 1, 2015.  

The pro forma financial information for the year ended December 31, 2015 combines: (i) the historical consolidated statement of operations of Willis Towers Watson for the year ended December 31, 2015 and (ii) the historical consolidated statement of operations of Towers Watson for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 less the historical consolidated statement of operations of Towers Watson for the six months ended December 31, 2014, plus the historical consolidated statement of operations of Towers Watson for the six months ended December 31, 2015. 

The pro forma financial information is only for Willis and Towers Watson and does not include Gras Savoye or other merger or acquisition activity on a pro forma basis. 

Pro forma financial information is for illustrative purposes only, and is based on adjustments that are estimates based upon available information and certain assumptions that Willis Towers Watson management believes are reasonable under the circumstances, as described in ‘Pro Forma Adjustments’ below. The pro forma financial information has not been adjusted to give effect to certain expected financial benefits of the Merger, such as revenue synergies, tax savings and cost synergies, or the anticipated costs to achieve these benefits, including the cost of integration activities. The pro forma financial information does not purport to represent what the actual consolidated results of operations of Willis Towers Watson would have been had the Merger occurred on the date indicated, nor is it necessarily indicative of future consolidated results of operations. The actual results of operations will differ, potentially significantly, from the pro forma amounts reflected herein due to a variety of factors, including access to additional information, changes in value not currently identified and changes in operating results following the date of the unaudited pro forma financial information. 

47

Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations 

(in millions of U.S. dollars, except per share data) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Pro Forma Adjustments 

The unaudited pro forma financial information reflects the following adjustments: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

b.Conforming reclassifications and adjustments. Certain reclassifications have been made to amounts in the Towers Watson historical statement of operations to conform to Willis’ presentation, including reclassifying certain contra revenue accounts and Towers Watson’s professional and subcontracted services, occupancy and general and administrative expenses within the relevant Willis captions. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

f.Amortization. Historical amortization expense of $71 million was removed and amortization expense of $459 million has been recorded to reflect the estimated fair values of Towers Watson’s identifiable intangible assets and related 

48

amortization. See Item 8, Note 3 — Merger and Acquisitions and Note 8 — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

h.Income taxes. Adjustments to record the income tax impact of the pro forma adjustments, including the removal of the tax consequences of the repatriation of foreign earnings to partially fund the pre-Merger special dividend. The income tax expense was calculated based on the U.S. and foreign statutory rates applicable to adjustments made. Where applicable, a U.S. statutory rate of 40% was used. Pro forma adjustments for income tax purposes have been determined without regard to potential tax planning strategies that may result from the Merger of Towers Watson with Willis. Tax benefits from the Merger have not been considered in our pro forma adjustments. 

i.Willis ordinary shares issuance. Approximately 184 million Willis ordinary shares (prior to the reverse stock split) were issued to Towers Watson stockholders as the Merger Consideration in connection with the Merger, based on Towers Watson shares of common stock outstanding as of January 4, 2016, at a per share price of $47.18, which was the closing share price on that date, for a total value of approximately $8.7 billion.  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________ 

(i)After taking into account the impact of the reverse stock split on January 4, 2016. 

(ii)Shares issued for Towers Watson based on approximately 69 million Towers Watson shares outstanding at January 4, 2016. 

k.Transaction and integration expenses. Transaction and integration costs related to the Merger and have been eliminated. 

Consolidated Revenues 

The following table sets out the total revenues generated for the year ended December 31, 2016, pro forma revenues generated for the year ended December 31, 2015, and the components of the change for the year ended December 31, 2016. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $7.9 billion, compared to $7.5 billion pro forma revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $395 million, or 5%. This growth was driven by a 7% increase due to our acquisitions of Gras Savoye and Miller and 1% organic revenue growth, partially offset by adverse foreign currency exchange movements of 3%. The primary drivers of our growth were within our Corporate Risk and Broking and Exchange Solutions segments. See our segment revenues analysis for a further discussion of our segment results. 

49

Our results can be materially impacted by changes in currency conversions, which can fluctuate significantly over the course of a calendar year. For the year ended December 31, 2016, currency translation decreased our consolidated revenues by $202 million on a constant currency basis from the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015. The primary currency driving the change was the Pound sterling which weakened against the U.S. dollar during 2016. 

The organic change presented above includes the reduction to revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 related to the fair value adjustment for deferred revenue made during purchase accounting for the Merger. If this revenue had not been reduced, the constant currency change would have been an increase of 9% and the organic change would have been an increase of 2%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2016. 

Definitions of Constant Currency Change and Organic Change are included in the section entitled ‘Non-GAAP Financial Measures’ in this Form 10-K. 

Salaries and Benefits 

Salaries and benefits were $4.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016, an increase of $215 million, or 5%, compared to $4.4 billion for the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily related to our acquisitions of Gras Savoye and Miller which contributed approximately $291 million of the increase, partially offset by increased net periodic benefit credits from the adoption of the granular approach to calculating service and interest costs of $51 million. 

Other Operating Expenses 

Other operating expenses include occupancy, legal, marketing, licenses, royalties, supplies, technology, printing and telephone costs, as well as insurance, including premiums on excess insurance and losses on professional liability claims, non-client-reimbursed travel by colleagues, publications, professional subscriptions and development, recruitment, other professional fees and irrecoverable value added and sales taxes. 

Other operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $1.6 billion, compared to $1.4 billion for the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $105 million or 7%. The increase was primarily related to our acquisitions of Gras Savoye and Miller, which contributed approximately $135 million of the increase. In 2016, we accrued $50 million for the Stanford litigation, which was $20 million less than the $70 million accrued in 2015. 

Depreciation 

Depreciation represents the expense incurred over the useful life of our tangible fixed assets and internally developed software. Depreciation was $178 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, an increase of $19 million, or 12%, compared to $159 million for the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015. The increase was primarily related to our acquisitions of Gras Savoye and Miller and our normal capital expenditures.  

Amortization 

Amortization includes amortization of acquired intangible assets, including acquired internally developed software. Amortization was $591 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, an increase of $56 million, or 10%, compared to $535 million for the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in amortization in 2016 is primarily due to amortization of the intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions of Gras Savoye and Miller. We acquired approximately $231 million and $440 million in intangible assets in our acquisitions of Miller and Gras Savoye, respectively. These intangible assets are amortized over their expected lives which range from 4 to 25 years. See Note 3 — Merger and Acquisitions and Note 8 — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets within Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about our intangible assets. 

Transaction and integration expenses  

Transaction and integration expenses were $177 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, an increase of $147 million compared to $30 million for the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in 2016 is primarily due to integration expenses incurred subsequent to the Merger. For the year ended December 31, 2016, approximately $162 million of these expenses were related to the Merger and $15 million were related to the integration of Gras Savoye. For the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015, transaction expenses related to the Merger of $151 million have been eliminated as part of the pro forma adjustments. Of the remaining $30 million of transaction and integration expenses, approximately $15 million were related to Gras Savoye, $11 million were related to Miller, and $4 million were related to other miscellaneous M&A activity. 

50

Restructuring costs and Interest expense 

Please see the discussion in the ‘As Reported Consolidated Financial Information’ section above. 

Income from Operations 

Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $551 million, compared to $765 million for the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015, a decrease of $214 million. The decrease was primarily due to increases in transaction and integration expenses of $147 million and restructuring costs of $67 million. 

Other Expense/(Income), Net 

Other expense/(income), net, includes other gains and losses, including gains and losses on foreign currency transactions. 

Other expense/(income), net, for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $27 million of net expense, which was primarily foreign currency transaction losses. Other expense/(income), net for the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015 was $112 million of net income, which was primarily due to $80 million of gains on disposals of operations and $59 million in the gain on the remeasurement of equity interests, partially offset by $30 million in foreign currency transaction losses in 2015.  

(Benefit from)/Provision for Income Taxes 

For the year ended December 31, 2016, there was a $96 million benefit from income taxes, due primarily to a benefit from the release of a portion of our U.S. valuation allowances and shifts in the global mix of income as a result of the Merger. This shift creates additional deductions in jurisdictions with high statutory income tax rates, which reduces the global effective tax rate. For the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015, there was a provision for income taxes of $70 million. Legacy Willis had a benefit from income taxes due to the release of a portion of U.S. valuation allowances in 2015 which was more than offset by the provision for income taxes for Legacy Towers Watson. 

Net Income Attributable to Willis Towers Watson 

Net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $420 million, a decrease of $220 million compared to $640 million for the pro forma year ended December 31, 2015. The decrease was primarily driven by increased transaction and integration expenses of $147 million and restructuring costs of $67 million in 2016 and gains on disposals of $80 million and remeasurement of equity interests of $59 million in 2015, partially offset by a decrease in income tax expense of $166 million. 

Supplementary Pro Forma Segment Revenues Analysis

Human Capital and Benefits  

The following table sets out the components of HCB revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, and the components of the change in commissions and fees for the year ended December 31, 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

HCB total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $3.2 billion; and commissions and fees for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $3.2 billion, representing an increase of $59 million. Pro forma and constant currency revenue growth were driven by the acquisition of Gras Savoye, which occurred on December 29, 2015. In an effort to align resources and market demand, a significant restructuring across all lines of business took place during the second half of 2016, which caused disruption in our billable hours. Across the segment, performance was mixed, resulting in flat organic growth. Retirement revenues declined slightly as a result of reduced actuarial consulting, primarily in the fourth quarter. The Health and Benefits North America consulting business continued to see demand for plan design projects and increased product revenue. The Talent and Rewards advisory business was down period-over-period as the M&A market softened. The Technology and Administration Solutions 

51

Great Britain business had strong performance, led by increased project and administration activity along with new clients. Internationally, Global Wealth Solutions has been negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the Greater China market. 

Corporate Risk and Broking 

The following table sets out the components of CRB revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, and the components of the change in commissions and fees for the year ended December 31, 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

CRB total segment and commissions and fees revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $2.5 billion, compared to pro forma $2.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015. The growth for the year ended December 31, 2016 was due to the acquisition of Gras Savoye, which occurred on December 29, 2015. Great Britain led organic growth with solid revenue increases across all lines of business. Western Europe contributed to organic growth with strong revenue gains in Iberia, partially offset by softness in Italy. North America was flat with strong retention offset by lower new business. Offsetting the growth in Great Britain and Western Europe, International organic revenue declined as a result of lower revenues in Asia and Australasia, partially offset by better performance in Latin America and CEEMEA. 

Investment, Risk and Reinsurance 

The following table sets out the components of IRR revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, and the components of the change in commissions and fees for the year ended December 31, 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

IRR total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $1.4 billion. Included in total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 is a previously disclosed settlement with JLT of £28 million ($41 million) related to the Fine Art, Jewellery and Specie team. Commissions and fees for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $1.4 billion, representing a decrease of $17 million. The organic decline was primarily related to the following factors: soft market conditions and renewal factors impacting our Reinsurance and Portfolio and Underwriting Services businesses, particularly in North America; a decline in overall insurance industry M&A activity impacting our Capital Markets & Advisory business after a record year in 2015; and a decline arising from lower demand in risk consulting projects. 

52

Exchange Solutions 

The following table sets out the components of ES revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015, and the components of the change in commissions and fees for the year ended December 31, 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

ES total segment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $654 million, compared to pro forma $487 million for the year ended December 31, 2015; and commissions and fees for the year ended December 31, 2016 were $652 million, compared to pro forma $484 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Retiree and Access Exchanges commissions and fees increased by 41%, primarily as a result of the record 2016 annual enrollment season. The rest of the segment commissions and fees increased by 27%, primarily due to Technology and Administration Solutions adding new clients and experiencing higher project activity.  

ES revenue growth is expected to slow to around 10% in 2017 due to the stabilization of the retiree enrollments. We continue to expect the active exchange growth to be strong. 

Restructuring Programs

Operational Improvement Program 

In April 2014, Legacy Willis announced an operational improvement program that would allow it to continue to strengthen its client service, realize operational efficiencies, and invest in new capabilities for growth.  

The primary elements of the program include: moving more than 3,500 support roles from higher cost locations to facilities in lower cost locations; net workforce reductions in support positions; lease consolidation in real estate; and information technology systems simplification and rationalization.  

The program began in the second quarter of 2014 and will be completed by the end of 2017. We are expecting to deliver $325 million of annual cost savings beginning in 2018. To achieve these savings, the Company expects to incur $130 million in restructuring charges in 2017, bringing the cumulative restructuring charges to approximately $440 million through the end of 2017. 

53

Total spend, actual savings, and timing may vary positively or negatively from these estimates due to changes in the scope, underlying assumptions, or execution risk of the restructuring plan throughout its duration. Restructuring costs related to the OIP for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 by segment are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________

(i)Other includes salary and benefits, premises, and other expenses incurred to support the ongoing management and facilitation of the programs. 

Business Restructuring Program 

In the second quarter of 2016, we began planning targeted staffing reductions in certain portions of the business due to a reduction in business demand or change in business focus (hereinafter referred to as the Business Restructure Program, or the ‘BRP’). The main element of the program is the workforce reduction of approximately 450 positions across all segments, resulting in annualized savings of approximately $80 million. The program was complete as of December 31, 2016. 

Restructuring costs related to the BRP for the year ended December 31, 2016 by segment are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Executive Summary 

Our principal sources of liquidity are funds generated by operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents and amounts available under revolving credit facilities.  

Based on our balance sheets, combined cash flows, current market conditions and information available to us at this time, we believe that Willis Towers Watson has sufficient liquidity, which includes our undrawn revolving credit facilities, to meet our cash needs for the next twelve months, including investing in the business for growth, creating value through the integration of Willis, Towers Watson and Gras Savoye, scheduled debt repayments, dividend payments, and contemplated share repurchases, subject to market conditions and other factors. 

Historically, we have not provided deferred taxes on cumulative earnings of our subsidiaries that have been reinvested indefinitely. As a result of the Merger and our plan to restructure certain foreign operations or distribute accumulated earnings of certain acquired Towers Watson subsidiaries, we recorded a deferred tax liability through goodwill. We continue to assert that the cumulative earnings of our other subsidiaries are reinvested indefinitely and we do not provide deferred tax liabilities on these amounts. The Company has no current plans and does not anticipate repatriating cash other than for certain foreign subsidiaries. If future events, including material changes in estimates of cash, working capital, long-term investment requirements or U.S. tax reform necessitate that these earnings be distributed, an additional provision for income and foreign 

54

withholding taxes, net of credits, may be necessary. One of the potential sources of cash may be through settlement of intercompany loans or return of capital distributions in a tax efficient manner. 

Events that could change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed above include significant changes in operating results, potential future acquisitions or divestitures, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation or future pension funding during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets. 

During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company restructured some of its debt financing in March and May 2016. We issued (i) $1.0 billion of senior notes ($450 million due 2021 and $550 million due 2026) to: refinance the $300 million senior notes due 2016; refinance $400 million of debt assumed as part of the Merger; and make further repayment on the revolving credit facility, and (ii) €540 million ($609 million) of senior notes to repay Tranche A of the 1-year term loan that was used to finance the acquisition of Gras Savoye. 

Cash and Short-term Investments 

Our cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2016 totaled $870 million, compared to $532 million at December 31, 2015. The increase in cash from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016 was primarily due to cash acquired in the Merger with Towers Watson. 

Additionally, $557 million was available to draw under our $800 million revolving credit facility, compared with $333 million at December 31, 2015, and $420 million was available to draw for regulatory capital purposes related to securities underwriting. 

Included within cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2016 are amounts held for regulatory capital adequacy requirements, including $87 million held within our regulated U.K. entities for regulatory capital adequacy requirements. 

Summarized Consolidated Cash Flows 

The following table presents the summarized consolidated cash flow information for the years ended: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flows from Operating Activities 

Cash flows from operating activities were $920 million for 2016, compared to cash flows from operating activities of $243 million for 2015. The $920 million net cash from operating activities for 2016 included net income of $438 million, adjusted for $590 million of non-cash adjustments, partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $108 million. The $590 million non-cash adjustments primarily include depreciation, amortization, net defined benefit pension credits, share-based compensation, and the benefit from deferred income taxes. The $677 million increase in cash from operations in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to cash from operations from Legacy Towers Watson and Gras Savoye. 

Cash flows from operating activities for 2015 was $243 million, which included net income of $384 million, adjusted for $38 million of non-cash adjustments to reconcile net income to cash used in operating activities, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $179 million.  

Cash flows from operating activities for 2014 was $477 million, which included net income of $373 million, adjusted for $257 million of non-cash adjustments to reconcile net income to cash used in operating activities, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $153 million.  

55

Cash Flows From/(Used In) Investing Activities 

Cash flows from investing activities for 2016 were $195 million, largely driven by $476 million of cash acquired as a result of our Merger with Towers Watson, which was a non-cash transaction as it was consummated through the issuance of shares. Cash inflows were partially offset by $303 million of fixed assets and software for internal use and capitalized costs of developing software. 

Cash flows used in investing activities of $943 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 were primarily driven by $857 million used in the acquisitions of operations and $146 million for capital expenditures. 

Cash flows used in investing activities of $276 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 were primarily driven by $245 million used in the acquisitions of operations and $113 million for capital expenditures, partially offset by $86 million of proceeds from the disposal of operations. 

Cash Flows (Used In)/From Financing Activities 

Cash flows used in financing activities for 2016 were $762 million. The primary drivers during the period were debt issuance of $2.0 billion, debt repayments of $1.9 billion, net payments on the revolving credit facility of $237 million, dividend payments of $199 million, and share repurchases of $396 million. 

The debt issuance of $2.0 billion was primarily the issuance of $450 million of senior notes due 2021, $550 million of senior notes due 2026, €540 million ($609 million) of senior notes due 2022 and a $400 million drawdown on the 1-year term loan facility. 

The debt repayments of $1.9 billion were primarily $300 million repayment of senior notes due 2016, $400 million repayment of Legacy Towers Watson debt and repayments of $592 million and $400 million on the 1-year term loan facility. 

Net cash provided by financing activities in 2015 was $641 million, primarily due to $469 million net drawings on the revolving credit facility, a $592 million term loan draw down to fund the acquisition of Gras Savoye, the issuance of shares and excess tax benefit of $131 million, partially offset by dividends paid of $277 million and repurchase of shares of $82 million. 

Net cash used in financing activities in 2014 was $323 million, primarily due to dividends paid of $210 million and repurchase of shares of $213 million, partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of shares and excess tax benefit of $139 million. 

Indebtedness

Total debt, total equity, and the capitalization ratio at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

At December 31, 2016, our material mandatory debt repayments over the next twelve months include $394 million senior notes due 2017, scheduled repayments of $85 million on our term loan maturing in 2019 and scheduled repayments of $22 million on our 7-year term loan. 

On March 22, 2016, we issued $450 million of 3.500% senior notes due 2021 and $550 million of 4.400% senior notes due 2026. We used the net proceeds from this offering to: repay $300 million under our $800 million revolving credit facility (which was drawn to repay our 4.125% senior notes on March 15, 2016); repay the $400 million Tranche B under our 1-year term loan facility; pay down further amounts outstanding under our $800 million revolving credit facility; and pay related accrued interest. 

On May 26, 2016, we issued €540 million ($609 million) of 2.125% senior notes due 2022. These 2022 senior notes will mature on May 26, 2022. We used the net proceeds of this offering to repay Tranche A of the 1-year term loan and related accrued interest. 

56

At December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with all financial covenants. 

Fiduciary Funds 

As an intermediary, we hold funds, generally in a fiduciary capacity, for the account of third parties, typically as the result of premiums received from clients that are in transit to insurers and claims due to clients that are in transit from insurers. We report premiums, which are held on account of, or due from, clients as assets with a corresponding liability due to the insurers. Claims held by, or due to, us which are due to clients are also shown as both Fiduciary assets and Fiduciary liabilities on our balance sheets.

Fiduciary funds are generally required to be kept in regulated bank accounts subject to guidelines which emphasize capital preservation and liquidity; such funds are not available to service the Company’s debt or for other corporate purposes. Notwithstanding the legal relationships with clients and insurers, the Company is entitled to retain investment income earned on fiduciary funds in accordance with industry custom and practice and, in some cases, as supported by agreements with insureds. 

At December 31, 2016 and 2015, we had fiduciary funds of $2.5 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. 

Share Repurchase Program

The Company is authorized to repurchase shares, by way of redemption, and will consider whether to do so from time to time, based on many factors, including market conditions. 

On April 20, 2016, the Willis Towers Watson Board reconfirmed, reapproved and reauthorized the remaining portion of the Legacy Willis program to repurchase the Company’s ordinary shares on the open market or by way of redemption or otherwise. 

On November 10, 2016, the Company announced the Board of Directors approved an increase to the existing share repurchase program of $1 billion. The $1 billion increase is in addition to the remaining authority on the Legacy Willis program discussed in the preceding paragraph. We anticipate this authorization to be executed in 2017 and 2018. At December 31, 2016, approximately $1.1 billion remained on the open-ended repurchase authorities granted by the Board. 

There are no expiration dates for these repurchase plans or programs. The following table presents specified information about the Company’s repurchases of ordinary shares for the year ended December 31, 2016. 

During 2016, the Company had the following share repurchase activity:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Capital Commitments 

The Company has no material commitments for capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures for fixed assets and software for internal use and capitalized software costs were $303 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. Expected capital expenditures for fixed assets and software for internal use are approximately $250 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. We expect cash from operations to adequately provide for these cash needs. 

Dividends

Total cash dividends of $199 million were paid during 2016. In February 2017, the board of directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $0.53 per share, which will be paid on or about April 17, 2017, for an annual rate of $2.12 per share. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions  

Apart from commitments, guarantees and contingencies, as disclosed herein and Note 13 — Commitments and Contingencies located within Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference, as of December 31, 2016, the Company had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

57

Contractual Obligations 

The Company’s material contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016 are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________ 

(i)Other contractual obligations include capital lease commitments, put option obligations and investment fund capital call obligations, the timing of which are included at the earliest point they may fall due. 

Debt obligations and facilities — The Company’s material debt and related interest obligations at December 31, 2016 are shown in the above table. Mandatory repayments of debt over the next 12 months include maturity of the 6.200% senior notes due 2017 and the scheduled repayment of the current portion of the Company’s 7-year and 2019 term loans. The Company also has the right, at its option, to prepay indebtedness under the credit facility without further penalty and to redeem the senior notes by paying a ‘make-whole’ premium as provided under the applicable debt instrument. 

Operating Leases — We lease office space and furniture under operating lease agreements with terms typically ranging from three to twenty years. We have determined that there is not a large concentration of leases that will expire in any one fiscal year. Consequently, management anticipates that any increase in future rent expense on leases will be mainly market-driven. We also lease cars and selected computer equipment under operating lease agreements. For acquired operating leases, intangible assets or liabilities have been recognized for the difference between the contractual cash obligations and the estimated market rates at the time of acquisition. These intangibles are amortized to rent expense but do not affect our contractual cash obligations. See further discussion in Item 8, Note 13 — Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Pension Contributions — The Company has agreed with Trustees of certain plans in the U.K. to contribute deficit funding and minimum ongoing accrual of benefits funding and presented those obligations in the table above. These obligations exclude any potential funding level contributions, which are dependent on future funding level assessments. There are no contractual obligations for our U.S. pension plans. Our total expected contributions to all qualified pension plans, including amounts presented above, for the year ending December 31, 2017 are projected to be $128 million. Additionally, the Company expects to pay $60 million in benefits directly to participants for the year ended 2017.  

Uncertain Tax Positions — The table above does not include liabilities for uncertain tax positions under ASC 740, Income Taxes. The settlement period for the $56 million liability, which excludes interest and penalties, cannot be reasonably estimated since it depends on the timing and possible outcomes of tax examinations with various tax authorities. 

Guarantees, Acquisition Liabilities and Other Contractual Obligations — Information regarding guarantees and other contractual obligations and their impact on the financial statements is set forth in Item 8, Note 13 — Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 

Claims, Lawsuits and Other Proceedings, including Stanford Financial Group Litigation — Information regarding claims, lawsuits and other proceedings, including the Stanford Financial Group litigation, and their impact on the consolidated financial statements is set forth in Item 8, Note 13 — Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. 

58

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Effective from January 1, 2016, we have made changes to the non-GAAP financial measures that we use to provide additional meaningful methods of evaluating the Company’s financial performance and have replaced our underlying and organic measures with those described below. 

These changes have been made both as a direct consequence of the Merger and to simplify and better align these measures with how we internally assess core performance and benchmark our operating results versus competitors. 

In order to assist readers of our consolidated financial statements in understanding the core operating results that Willis Towers Watson’s management uses to evaluate the business and for financial planning, we present non-GAAP measures: (1) Adjusted Revenues, (2) Constant Currency Change, (3) Organic Change, (4) Adjusted Operating Income, (5) Adjusted EBITDA, (6) Adjusted Net Income, (7) Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share, (8) Adjusted Income Before Taxes, (9) Adjusted Income Taxes/Tax Rate and (10) Free Cash Flow. The Company believes that these measures are relevant and provide useful information widely used by analysts, investors and other interested parties in our industry to provide a baseline for evaluating and comparing our operating and liquidity results. 

Within these measures, we have adjusted for significant items which will not be settled in cash, or which we believe to be items that are not core to our current or future operations. These items include the following:

•Restructuring and Transaction and integration expenses - Management believes it is appropriate to adjust for restructuring and transaction and integration expenses when they relate to a specific significant program with a defined set of activities and costs that are not expected to continue beyond a defined period of time. We believe the adjustment is necessary to present how the Company is performing, both now and in the future when these programs will have concluded. 

•Fair value adjustment to deferred revenue - Adjustment to normalize for the deferred revenue written down as part of the purchase accounting for the Merger. 

•Gains and losses on disposals of operations - Adjustment to remove the results of disposed operations. 

•Provision for Stanford litigation - The provision for the Stanford litigation matter, which we consider to be a non-ordinary course litigation matter. 

•Venezuelan currency devaluation - Foreign exchange losses incurred as a consequence of the Venezuelan government’s enforced changes to exchange rate mechanisms.  

•Deferred tax valuation allowance - Adjustment to remove the effects of a release of the valuation allowance against certain U.S. deferred tax assets. 

•Gain on remeasurement of equity interests - The Company recognized a gain as a result of remeasuring its prior equity interest in Gras Savoye held before the business combination. 

These measures are different than those reported in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 and filed with the SEC on February 29, 2016. Historical non-GAAP measures have been recalculated using management’s new metrics for 2016. 

These non-GAAP measures are not defined in the same manner by all companies and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies. Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the information contained within our consolidated financial statements. 

The pro forma financial information is only for Willis and Towers Watson and does not include Gras Savoye or other M&A activity on a pro forma basis. 

Adjusted Revenues 

We consider Adjusted Revenues to be an important financial measure, which is used to internally evaluate and assess our core operations and to benchmark our operating results against our competitors. Adjusted Revenues presents relevant period-over-period comparisons of revenues by excluding the impact of purchase accounting rules.  

Adjusted Revenues is defined as Total revenues adjusted for the fair value adjustment for deferred revenues that would otherwise have been recognized but for the purchase accounting treatment of these transactions. GAAP accounting requires the elimination of this revenue.  

59

We have included the reconciliation of Total revenues to Adjusted Revenues in the table below, together with our reconciliation of the pro forma revenues change to the constant currency and organic changes. 

Constant Currency Change and Organic Change 

We evaluate our revenues on an as reported (U.S. GAAP), constant currency and organic basis. We believe providing constant currency and organic information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our comparable results, consistent with how we evaluate our performance internally. 

•Constant Currency Change - Represents the year over year change in revenues excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. To calculate this impact, the prior year local currency results are first translated using the current year monthly average exchange rates. The change is calculated by comparing the prior year revenues, translated at the current year monthly average exchange rates, to the current year as reported revenues, for the same period. We believe constant currency measures provide useful information to investors because they provide transparency to performance by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on period-over-period comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets. 

•Organic Change - The organic presentation excludes both the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, as described above, as well as the period-over-period impact of acquisitions and divestitures. We believe that excluding transaction-related items from our GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information to our investors, and it is important in illustrating what our core operating results would have been had we not incurred these transaction-related items, since the nature, size and number of these transaction-related items can vary from period to period. 

The constant currency and organic change results, and a reconciliation from the as reported results for consolidated revenues are included in the As Reported Consolidated Financial Information section within this Form 10-K. These measures are also reported by segment in the As Reported Segment Revenues Analysis tables in that discussion and analysis. 

A reconciliation of Total revenues to Adjusted Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma 2015, and a reconciliation of the pro forma change to the constant currency and organic change for the year ended December 31, 2016 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Operating Income 

We consider Adjusted Operating Income to be an important financial measure, which is used to internally evaluate and assess our core operations and to benchmark our operating results against our competitors. 

Adjusted Operating Income is defined as Income from Operations adjusted for amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and integration expenses, the fair value adjustment for deferred revenue and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. 

60

A reconciliation of Income from Operations to Adjusted Operating Income for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma year ended December 31, 2015 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________ 

(i)Includes pro forma adjustments made in the Supplementary Pro Forma Financial Information section in this Form 10-K. 

Adjusted Operating Income for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $1.6 billion, compared to pro forma $1.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $109 million. The increase in Adjusted Operating Income for the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily driven by our acquisition of Gras Savoye, the settlement with JLT of £28 million ($41 million) related to the Fine Art, Jewellery and Specie team, and the performance of our Exchange Solutions segment. 

Adjusted EBITDA 

We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important financial measure, which is used to internally evaluate and assess our core operations, to benchmark our operating results against our competitors, and to evaluate and measure our performance-based compensation plans. 

Adjusted EBITDA is defined as Net Income adjusted for provision for income taxes, interest expense, depreciation and amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and integration expenses, the fair value adjustment for deferred revenue, gain on disposal of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. 

61

A reconciliation of net income to Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2016 and pro forma year ended December 31, 2015 is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________ 

(i) Includes pro forma adjustments made in the Supplementary Pro Forma Financial Information section in this Form 10-K. 

Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $1.8 billion, compared to pro forma $1.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2015, an increase of $89 million. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily driven by our acquisition of Gras Savoye, the settlement with JLT of £28 million ($41 million) related to the Fine Art, Jewellery and Specie team, and the performance of our Exchange Solutions segment. 

Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share 

Adjusted Net Income is defined as Net Income Attributable to Willis Towers Watson adjusted for amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and integration expenses, the fair value adjustment of deferred revenue, gain on disposal of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results and the related tax effect of those adjustments. This measure is used solely for the purpose of calculating adjusted diluted earnings per share. 

Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share is used to internally evaluate and assess our core operations and to benchmark our operating results against our competitors. Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by the weighted average number of shares of common stock, diluted. 

62

A reconciliation of net income attributable to Willis Towers Watson to adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________ 

(i)The tax effect was calculated using the statutory tax rate applicable to the item being adjusted for in the jurisdiction from which each adjustment arises. 

(ii)We have not presented this measure on a comparative pro forma basis because it is not practical to present the 2015 adjusted income tax effects on a pro forma basis, as making tax-effected non-GAAP adjustments on a proforma basis would be highly speculative in nature.  

Adjusted Income Before Taxes and Adjusted Income Taxes/Tax Rate 

Adjusted Income Before Taxes is defined as Income from continuing operations before income taxes and interest in earnings of associates adjusted for amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and integration expenses, the fair value adjustment of deferred revenue, gain on disposal of operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results. Adjusted income before taxes is used solely for the purpose of calculating the adjusted income tax rate. 

Adjusted Income Tax Rate is defined as Provision for income taxes adjusted for taxes on certain items of amortization, restructuring costs, transaction and integration expenses, the fair value adjustment for deferred revenue, gain on disposal of 

63

operations and non-recurring items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the period-over-period assessment of operating results, divided by Adjusted Income Before Taxes. Adjusted income taxes is used solely for the purpose of calculating the Adjusted Income Tax Rate. 

Management believes the Adjusted Income Tax Rate presents a rate that is more closely aligned to the rate we would incur if not for the reduction of pre-tax income of the adjusted items, which are not core to our current and future operations. 

A reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes and interest in earnings of associates to adjusted income and provision for income taxes to adjusted income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2016 is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]____________________ 

(i)The tax effect and effective tax rate were calculated using the statutory tax rate applicable to the item being adjusted for in the jurisdiction from which each adjustment arises. 

(ii)These effective tax rates are calculated using extended values from our consolidated statement of operations for this reconciliation, and are therefore more precise tax rates than can be calculated from rounded values. 

(iii)We have not presented this measure on a comparative basis because it is not practical to present the 2015 adjusted income tax rate on a pro forma basis, as making tax-effected non-GAAP adjustments on a proforma basis would be highly speculative in nature.  

64

Free Cash Flow 

Free Cash Flow is used to evaluate our liquidity, and is defined as cash flows from operating activities less cash used to purchase fixed assets and software for internal use. 

A summary of our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, along with a reconciliation of cash flows from operating activities to Free Cash Flow is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Free cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $702 million, compared to free cash flow of $97 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The $677 million increase in cash from operations in the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was the primary driver for the increase in free cash flow period-over-period, and was primarily due to cash from operations from Legacy Towers Watson and Gras Savoye. 

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

These consolidated financial statements conform to U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our estimates, judgments and assumptions are continually evaluated based on available information and experience. Because of the use of estimates inherent in the financial reporting process, actual results could differ from those estimates. The areas that we believe are critical accounting policies include valuation of billed and unbilled receivables from clients, discretionary compensation, income taxes, commitments, contingencies and accrued liabilities, pension assumptions, and goodwill and intangible assets. The critical accounting policies discussed below involve making difficult, subjective or complex accounting estimates that could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These critical accounting policies require us to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate or assumption. Different estimates that we could have used, or changes in estimates that are reasonably likely to occur, may have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Valuation of Billed and Unbilled Receivables from Clients

We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect estimated losses resulting from the clients’ failure to pay for the services after the services have been rendered, including allowances when client disputes may exist. The related provision is recorded as a reduction to revenue. Our allowance policy is based on the aging of the billed and unbilled client receivables and has been developed based on the write-off history. Facts and circumstances such as the average length of time the receivables are past due, general market conditions, current economic trends and our clients’ ability to pay may cause fluctuations in our valuation of billed and unbilled receivables.

Discretionary Compensation

Our compensation program includes a discretionary bonus that is determined by management and has historically been paid once per fiscal year in the form of cash and/or deferred stock units after our annual operating results are finalized.

An estimated annual bonus amount is initially developed at the beginning of each fiscal year in conjunction with our budgeting process. Estimated annual operating performance is reviewed quarterly and the discretionary annual bonus amount is then adjusted, if necessary, by management to reflect changes in the forecast of pre-bonus profitability for the year.

65

Income Taxes

The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the estimated future tax consequences of events attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating and capital loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of changes in tax rates is recognized in the statement of operations in the period in which the change is enacted. Deferred tax assets are reduced through the establishment of a valuation allowance at such time as, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company adjusts valuation allowances to measure deferred tax assets at the amount considered realizable in future periods if the Company’s facts and assumptions change. In making such determination, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and the results of recent financial operations. We place more reliance on evidence that is objectively verifiable.

Commitments, Contingencies and Accrued Liabilities

We have established provisions against various actual and potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and reinsurance and consulting services in the ordinary course of business. Such provisions cover claims that have been reported but not paid and also claims that have been incurred but not reported. These provisions are established based on actuarial estimates together with individual case reviews and are believed to be adequate in the light of current information and legal advice. In certain cases, where a range of loss exists, we accrue the minimum amount in the range if no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount. 

See Note 13 — Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8 within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Pension Assumptions

We maintain defined benefit pension plans for employees in several countries, with the most significant defined benefit plans offered in the U.S. and U.K. Our disclosures in Note 12 — Retirement Benefits contain additional information about our other less significant but material retirement plans. Within our critical accounting policy discussion, we have excluded analysis for plans outside of those noted in the description below, as any variance of recorded information based on management’s estimates would be immaterial. 

Descriptions of our U.S. and U.K. plans, which comprise 91% of our projected benefit obligations and 94% of our plan assets, are below:

United States

Legacy Willis – This plan covers approximately one third of the Legacy Willis employees in the United States and is now frozen with no new entrants nor future accruals.

Legacy Towers Watson – This plan covers substantially all Legacy Towers Watson U.S. employees, with the exception of certain employees of our Exchange Solutions segment. Prior to December 31, 2010, employees earned benefits under their original plan formulas, which were frozen on December 31, 2011. Beginning January 1, 2012, all Legacy Towers Watson employees, including named executive officers, accrue qualified and non-qualified benefits under a stable value pension design. 

2017 Changes – The Legacy Towers Watson plan’s current non-contributory stable value formula is not available to employees hired or rehired on or after January 1, 2017. Beginning July 1, 2017, Legacy Towers Watson employees participating in the Plan will accrue benefits under a new non-contributory stable value pension formula. Also beginning July 1, 2017, the Plan will cover newly eligible employees, including employees hired on or after January 1, 2017, and employees from Legacy Willis and the Exchange Solutions segment, who elect to participate (who do not ‘opt out’) under a new contributory stable value pension formula.

66

United Kingdom

Legacy Willis – This plan covers approximately one third of the Legacy Willis employees in the United Kingdom. The plan is now closed to new entrants. New employees in the United Kingdom are offered the opportunity to join a defined contribution plan. 

Legacy Towers Watson – Benefit accruals earned under the Legacy Watson Wyatt defined benefit plan (predominantly pension benefits) ceased on February 28, 2015, although benefits earned prior to January 1, 2008 retain a link to salary until the employee leaves the Company. Benefit accruals earned under the legacy Towers Perrin defined benefit plan (predominantly lump sum benefits) were frozen on March 31, 2008. All participants now accrue defined contribution benefits. 

Legacy Miller – The plan provides retirement benefits based on members’ salaries at the point at which they ceased to accrue benefits under the scheme. 

The determination of the Company’s obligations and annual expense under the plans is based on a number of assumptions that, given the longevity of the plans, are long-term in focus. A change in one or a combination of these assumptions could have a material impact on our projected benefit obligation. However, certain of these changes, such as changes in the discount rates and other actuarial assumptions, are not recognized immediately in net income, but are instead recorded in other comprehensive income. The accumulated gains and losses not yet recognized in net income are amortized into net income as a component of the net periodic benefit cost/(credit) based on the average working life expectancy of each of the plan’s active participants to the extent that the net gains or losses as of the beginning of the year exceed 10% of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or the projected benefit obligation. 

Willis Towers Watson considers several factors prior to the start of each fiscal year when determining the appropriate annual assumptions, including economic forecasts, relevant benchmarks, historical trends, portfolio composition and peer company comparisons. These assumptions, used to determine our pension liabilities and pension expense are reviewed annually by senior management and changed when appropriate. A discount rate will be changed annually if underlying rates have moved, whereas the expected long-term return on assets will be changed less frequently as longer term trends in asset returns emerge or long term target asset allocations are revised. To calculate the discount rate, we use the granular approach to determining service cost and interest cost. We began using this method to calculate the discount rate in 2016. This was treated as a change in accounting estimate, and resulted in a credit of $51 million included in our total net periodic benefit income. The expected rate of return assumptions for all plans are supported by an analysis of the weighted-average yield expected to be achieved with the anticipated makeup of investments. Other material assumptions include rates of participant mortality, and the expected long-term rate of compensation and pension increases.

Funding is based on actuarially determined contributions and is limited to amounts that are currently deductible for tax purposes, or as agreed to with the plan trustees for the U.K. plans. Since funding calculations are based on different measurements than those used for accounting purposes, pension contributions are not equal to net periodic benefit cost. 

We recorded a combined $124 million net periodic benefit income for our U.S. and U.K. plans for the year ended December 31, 2016. For the U.S. and U.K. funded plans, the following table presents our estimated net periodic benefit income for 2017 and the impact to both plans of a 0.25% increase and decrease to both the expected return on assets (‘EROA’) and the discount rate assumptions, and the projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2016 and the impact of a 0.25% increase and decrease to the discount rates:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Economic factors and conditions often affect multiple assumptions simultaneously and the effects of changes in key assumptions are not necessarily linear.

67

Goodwill and Intangible Assets — Impairment Review

In applying the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, amounts assigned to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired were based on estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition, with the remainder recorded as goodwill. Intangible assets are initially valued at fair value using generally accepted valuation methods appropriate for the type of intangible asset. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment if indicators of impairment arise. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested for impairment annually as of October 1, and whenever indicators of impairment arise. The fair value of the intangible assets is compared with their carrying value and an impairment loss would be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as of October 1, and whenever indicators of impairment arise. 

Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level, and the Company had eight reporting units as of October 1, 2016.

During fiscal year 2016, the Company performed Step 1 of the two-step impairment test for all reporting units. Each of the reporting units' estimated fair values were in excess of their carrying values. To perform the test, we used valuation techniques to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit that fall under income or market approaches. Under the discounted cash flow method, an income approach, the business enterprise value is determined by discounting to present value the terminal value which is calculated using debt-free after-tax cash flows for a finite period of years. Key estimates in this approach were internal financial projection estimates prepared by management, business risk, and expected rates of return on capital. The guideline company method, a market approach, develops valuation multiples by comparing our reporting units to similar publicly traded companies. Key estimates and selection of valuation multiples rely on the selection of similar companies, obtaining estimates of forecast revenues and EBITDA estimates for the similar companies and selection of valuation multiples as they apply to the reporting unit characteristics. Under the similar transactions method, a market approach, actual transaction prices and operating data from companies deemed reasonably similar to the reporting units is used to develop valuation multiples as an indication of how much a knowledgeable investor in the marketplace would be willing to pay for the business units.

If the Company was required to perform Step 2, we would determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit used in Step 1 to all of the assets and liabilities of that reporting unit (including any recognized or unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Then the implied fair value of goodwill would be compared to the carrying amount of goodwill to determine if goodwill is impaired. For the year ended December 31, 2016, we did not record any impairment losses of goodwill or intangibles.

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

While we are still in the process of analyzing the various Accounting Standards Updates (‘ASU’) issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (‘FASB’), those which we believe will have a material impact to our financial statements are listed below. See Note 2 — Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies within Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information.

•ASU No. 2014-09 ‘Revenue From Contracts With Customers’

◦The Company will adopt the standard using the modified retrospective approach on January 1, 2018.  

◦We expect certain revenue streams to have accelerated revenue recognition timing. In particular, the revenue recognition for our Retiree Medicare Exchange is expected to move from monthly ratable recognition over the policy period, to the recognition upon placement of the policy during the Company’s fourth quarter of the preceding calendar year in the amount of one year of expected commissions. Therefore, upon adoption, we will reflect an adjustment to retained earnings for the revenue that would otherwise have been recognized during our 2018 calendar year since our earnings process will have been completed during the fourth quarter of 2017. 

◦We expect our accounting for deferred costs will change. First, for those portions of the business that currently defer costs (related to system implementation activities), the length of time over which we amortize those costs is expected to extend to a longer estimated contract term. Currently these costs are amortized over a typical period of 3-5 years in accordance with the initial stated terms of the customer agreement. Second, we believe there may be other types of arrangements with associated costs that do not meet the rules for cost deferral under current U.S. GAAP but do meet the rules under the new standard. We are still evaluating the types of arrangements that might now have cost deferral impacts. 

68

•ASU No. 2016-02 ‘Leases’

◦The majority of our leases are currently considered operating leases and will be capitalized as a lease asset on our balance sheets with a related lease liability for the obligated lease payments when the ASU is adopted. The ASU becomes effective for the Company at the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year; early adoption is permitted.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK