PART I 

Item 1.  

Business. 

M&T Bank Corporation (“Registrant” or “M&T”) is a New York business corporation which is registered as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”) and as a bank holding company (“BHC”) under Article III-A of the New York Banking Law (“Banking Law”). The principal executive offices of M&T are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. M&T was incorporated in November 1969. M&T and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company.” As of December 31, 2017 the Company had consolidated total assets of $118.6 billion, deposits of $92.4 billion and shareholders’ equity of $16.3 billion. The Company had 15,913 full-time and 881 part-time employees as of December 31, 2017. 

At December 31, 2017, M&T had two wholly owned bank subsidiaries: Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company (“M&T Bank”) and Wilmington Trust, National Association (“Wilmington Trust, N.A.”). The banks collectively offer a wide range of retail and commercial banking, trust and wealth management, and investment services to their customers. At December 31, 2017, M&T Bank represented 99% of consolidated assets of the Company. 

The Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift institutions, branch offices of banks or thrift institutions, or other businesses within markets currently served by the Company or in other locations that would complement the Company’s business or its geographic reach. The Company has pursued acquisition opportunities in the past, continues to review different opportunities, including the possibility of major acquisitions, and intends to continue this practice. 

Subsidiaries 

M&T Bank is a banking corporation that is incorporated under the laws of the State of New York. M&T Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Home Loan Bank System, and its deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to applicable limits. M&T acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of M&T Bank in December 1969. The stock of M&T Bank represents a major asset of M&T. M&T Bank operates under a charter granted by the State of New York in 1892, and the continuity of its banking business is traced to the organization of the Manufacturers and Traders Bank in 1856. The principal executive offices of M&T Bank are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. As of December 31, 2017, M&T Bank had 780 domestic banking offices located in New York State, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Connecticut, Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia, a full-service commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada, and an office in George Town, Cayman Islands. As of December 31, 2017, M&T Bank had consolidated total assets of $118.1 billion, deposits of $94.4 billion and shareholder’s equity of $14.3 billion. The deposit liabilities of M&T Bank are insured by the FDIC through its Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). As a commercial bank, M&T Bank offers a broad range of financial services to a diverse base of consumers, businesses, professional clients, governmental entities and financial institutions located in its markets. Lending is largely focused on consumers residing in New York State, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Connecticut, Virginia, West Virginia, and Washington, D.C., and on small and medium-size businesses based in those areas, although loans are originated through offices in other states and in Ontario, Canada. In addition, the Company conducts lending activities in various states through other subsidiaries. Trust and other fiduciary services are offered by M&T Bank and through its wholly owned subsidiary, Wilmington Trust Company. M&T Bank and certain of its subsidiaries also offer commercial mortgage loans secured by income producing properties or properties used by borrowers in a trade or business. Additional financial services are provided through other operating subsidiaries of the Company. 

4 

Wilmington Trust, N.A., a national banking association and a member of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, commenced operations on October 2, 1995. The deposit liabilities of Wilmington Trust, N.A. are insured by the FDIC through the DIF. The main office of Wilmington Trust, N.A. is located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890. Wilmington Trust, N.A. offers various trust and wealth management services. Historically, Wilmington Trust, N.A. offered selected deposit and loan products on a nationwide basis, through direct mail, telephone marketing techniques and the Internet. As of December 31, 2017, Wilmington Trust, N.A. had total assets of $5.0 billion, deposits of $4.4 billion and shareholder’s equity of $530 million. 

Wilmington Trust Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Delaware bank and trust company in March 1901 and amended its charter in July 2011 to become a nondepository trust company. Wilmington Trust Company provides a variety of Delaware based trust, fiduciary and custodial services to its clients. As of December 31, 2017, Wilmington Trust Company had total assets of $1.1 billion and shareholder’s equity of $572 million. Revenues of Wilmington Trust Company were $134 million in 2017. The headquarters of Wilmington Trust Company are located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890. 

M&T Insurance Agency, Inc. (“M&T Insurance Agency”), a wholly owned insurance agency subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York corporation in March 1955. M&T Insurance Agency provides insurance agency services principally to the commercial market. As of December 31, 2017, M&T Insurance Agency had assets of $41 million and shareholder’s equity of $20 million. M&T Insurance Agency recorded revenues of $32 million during 2017. The headquarters of M&T Insurance Agency are located at 285 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, New York 14202. 

M&T Real Estate Trust (“M&T Real Estate”) is a Maryland Real Estate Investment Trust that traces its origin to the incorporation of M&T Real Estate, Inc. in July 1995. M&T Real Estate engages in commercial real estate lending and provides loan servicing to M&T Bank. As of December 31, 2017, M&T Real Estate had assets of $26.5 billion, common shareholder’s equity of $25.7 billion, and preferred shareholders’ equity, consisting of 9% fixed rate preferred stock (par value $1,000), of $1 million. All of the outstanding common stock and 89% of the preferred stock of M&T Real Estate is owned by M&T Bank. The remaining 11% of M&T Real Estate’s outstanding preferred stock is owned by officers or former officers of the Company. M&T Real Estate recorded $997 million of revenue in 2017. The headquarters of M&T Real Estate are located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. 

M&T Realty Capital Corporation (“M&T Realty Capital”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Maryland corporation in October 1973. M&T Realty Capital engages in multifamily commercial real estate lending and provides loan servicing to purchasers of the loans it originates. As of December 31, 2017, M&T Realty Capital serviced $16.2 billion of commercial mortgage loans for non-affiliates and had assets of $812 million and shareholder’s equity of $151 million. M&T Realty Capital recorded revenues of $145 million in 2017. The headquarters of M&T Realty Capital are located at 25 South Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202. 

M&T Securities, Inc. (“M&T Securities”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank that was incorporated as a New York business corporation in November 1985. M&T Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Advisors Act”). M&T Securities is licensed as a life insurance agent in each state where M&T Bank operates branch offices and in a number of other states. It provides securities brokerage, investment advisory and insurance services. As of December 31, 2017, M&T Securities had assets of $53 million and shareholder’s equity of $45 million. M&T Securities recorded $94 million of revenue during 2017. The headquarters of M&T Securities are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. 

5 

Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc. (“WT Investment Advisors”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Maryland corporation on June 30, 1995. WT Investment Advisors, a registered investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act, serves as an investment advisor to the Wilmington Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and institutional clients. As of December 31, 2017, WT Investment Advisors had assets of $48 million and shareholder’s equity of $42 million. WT Investment Advisors recorded revenues of $39 million in 2017. The headquarters of WT Investment Advisors are located at 100 East Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202. 

Wilmington Funds Management Corporation (“Wilmington Funds Management”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T that was incorporated in September 1981 as a Delaware corporation. Wilmington Funds Management is registered as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act and serves as an investment advisor to the Wilmington Funds. Wilmington Funds Management had assets and shareholder’s equity of $39 million each as of December 31, 2017. Wilmington Funds Management recorded revenues of $24 million in 2017. The headquarters of Wilmington Funds Management are located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890. 

Wilmington Trust Investment Management, LLC (“WTIM”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T and was incorporated in December 2001 as a Georgia limited liability company. WTIM is a registered investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act and provides investment management services to clients, including certain private funds. As of December 31, 2017, WTIM has assets and shareholder’s equity of $25 million each. WTIM recorded revenues of $1 million in 2017. WTIM’s headquarters is located at Terminus 27th Floor, 3280 Peachtree Road N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30305. 

The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of other special-purpose or inactive subsidiaries. These other subsidiaries did not represent, individually and collectively, a significant portion of the Company’s consolidated assets, net income and shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2017. 

Segment Information, Principal Products/Services and Foreign Operations 

Information about the Registrant’s business segments is included in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is further discussed in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Registrant’s reportable segments have been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of customer and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The reportable segments are Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking. The Company’s international activities are discussed in note 17 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

The only activity that, as a class, contributed 10% or more of the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in any of the last three years was interest on loans. The amount of income from such sources during those years is set forth on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Supervision and Regulation of the Company 

M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to bank and financial holding companies and their subsidiaries. Regulation of financial institutions such as M&T and its subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC’s DIF and  

6 

the banking and financial system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of shareholders, investors or creditors other than insured depositors. 

Proposals to change the applicable regulatory framework may be introduced in the United States Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to M&T or any of its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company. 

Significant changes in the regulatory scheme arose from the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) which is an extensive and comprehensive system of regulatory oversight that affects nearly all aspects of a financial institution, particularly having an effect on the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, various federal regulatory agencies proposed or adopted a broad range of implementing rules and regulations that are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the applicable federal regulators. However, given that many of these regulatory changes are highly complex and are not completely implemented, the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act regulatory reform, both on consumers and M&T, will not be known until the rules are implemented and market practices develop under the final regulations. Furthermore, political developments, including the change in administration in the United States, have added uncertainty to the implementation, scope and timing of regulatory reforms, including those relating to the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act.  

Described hereafter are material elements of the significant federal and state laws and regulations applicable to M&T and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described and do not include any potential or proposed changes in current laws or regulations. 

Overview 

M&T is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”) as a financial holding company and BHC under the BHCA. As such, M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHCA and the regulations of the Federal Reserve. In addition, M&T’s banking subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by, as applicable, the New York State Department of Financial Services (“NYSDFS”), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the FDIC and the Federal Reserve and their consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”). Further, financial services entities such as M&T’s investment advisor subsidiaries and M&T’s broker-dealer are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (“SIPC”), among others. Other non-bank affiliates and activities, particularly insurance brokerage and agency activities, are subject to other federal and state laws and regulations as well as licensing and regulation by state insurance and bank regulatory agencies. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity  

7 

as well as regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, and reporting. M&T’s non-U.S. (European) businesses are subject to bank secrecy/anti-money laundering/know your customer-type regulations by non-U.S. regulators in the jurisdictions where those businesses operate.  

In general, the BHCA limits the business of a BHC to banking, managing or controlling banks, and other activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, bank holding companies are expected to serve as a managerial and financial source of strength to their subsidiary depository institutions, including committing resources to support such subsidiaries. This support may be required at times when M&T may not be inclined or able to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a BHC to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a BHC’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. 

Bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve, by regulation or order, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and merchant banking. In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity or to acquire a company engaged in any activity pursuant to the financial holding company provisions of the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company must have at least a “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the “CRA”). See the section captioned “Community Reinvestment Act” included elsewhere in this discussion. 

M&T elected to become a financial holding company on March 1, 2011. To maintain financial holding company status, a financial holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” The failure to meet such requirements could result in material restrictions on the activities of M&T and may also adversely affect the Company’s ability to enter into certain transactions or obtain necessary approvals in connection therewith, as well as loss of financial holding company status. 

Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which, in addition to the broad supervisory authority that the Federal Reserve has over both the banking and non-banking activities of bank holding companies, functional regulators such as the SEC regulate their affiliates’ securities activities and state insurance regulators regulate their insurance activities. 

M&T Bank is a New York chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“FRBNY”). As a result, it is subject to extensive regulation, examination and oversight by the NYSDFS and the FRBNY. New York laws and regulations govern many aspects of M&T Bank’s operations, including branching, dividends, subsidiary activities, fiduciary activities, lending, and deposit taking. M&T Bank is also subject to Federal Reserve regulations and guidance, including oversight of capital levels. Its deposits are insured by the FDIC to $250,000 per depositor, which also exercises regulatory oversight over certain aspects of M&T Bank’s operations. Certain subsidiaries of M&T Bank are subject to regulation by other federal and state regulators as well. For example, M&T Securities is regulated by the SEC, FINRA, SIPC, and state securities regulators, and WT Investment Advisors is also subject to SEC regulation. 

Wilmington Trust, N.A. is a national bank with operations that include fiduciary and related activities with limited lending and deposit business. It is subject to extensive regulation, examination  

8 

and oversight by the OCC which governs many aspects of the operations, including fiduciary activities, capital levels, office locations, dividends and subsidiary activities. Its deposits are insured by the FDIC to $250,000 per depositor, which also exercises regulatory oversight over certain aspects of the operations of Wilmington Trust, N.A.  

The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments which are based on average consolidated total assets less average Tier 1 capital and certain allowable deductions of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions. 

Distributions 

M&T is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Historically, the majority of M&T’s revenue has been from dividends paid to M&T by its subsidiary banks. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are subject to laws and regulations imposing restrictions on the amount of dividends they may declare and pay. Future dividend payments to M&T by its subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors, including the earnings and financial condition of each such bank, and are subject to the limitations referred to in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and to other statutory powers of bank regulatory agencies. 

An insured depository institution is prohibited from making any capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if, after making such distribution, the depository institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure, including the risk-based capital adequacy and leverage standards discussed herein. 

Dividend payments by M&T to its shareholders and common stock repurchases by M&T are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve. As described below in this section under “Stress Testing and Capital Plan Review,” dividends and common stock repurchases (net of any new stock issuances as per a capital plan) generally may only be paid or made under a capital plan as to which the Federal Reserve has not objected. 

Capital Requirements 

M&T and its subsidiary banks are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the federal banking agencies. Beginning on January 1, 2015, M&T and its subsidiary banks became subject to a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations that was issued by the federal banking agencies in July 2013 (the “New Capital Rules”), subject to phase-in periods for certain components and other provisions. 

The New Capital Rules generally implement the Basel Committee’s December 2010 final capital framework referred to as “Basel III” for strengthening international capital standards. The New Capital Rules substantially revised the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries, including M&T, M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A., as compared to the U.S. general risk-based capital rules that were applicable to the Company through December 31, 2014. The New Capital Rules revised the definitions and the components of regulatory capital, as well as addressed other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions’ regulatory capital ratios. The New Capital Rules also addressed asset risk weights and other matters affecting the denominator in banking institutions’ regulatory capital ratios. 

Among other matters, the New Capital Rules: (i) introduced a capital measure called “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”) and related regulatory capital ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets; (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting certain revised requirements; (iii) mandate that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital; and (iv) expand the scope of  

9 

the deductions from and adjustments to capital as compared to the previous regulations. Under the New Capital Rules, for most banking organizations, including M&T, the most common form of Additional Tier 1 capital is non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and the most common forms of Tier 2 capital are subordinated notes and a portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses, in each case, subject to the New Capital Rules’ specific requirements. 

Pursuant to the New Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios are as follows: 

•  

4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets; 

•  

6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets; 

•  

8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and 

•  

4.0% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”). 

In calculating regulatory capital ratios M&T must assign risk weights to the Company’s assets and off-balance sheet items. M&T has an ongoing process to review data elements associated with certain assets that from time to time may affect how specific assets are classified and could lead to increases or decreases of the regulatory risk weights assigned to such assets. 

The New Capital Rules also introduce a new “capital conservation buffer,” composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity and other capital instrument repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Thus, when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the capital standards applicable to M&T will include an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios inclusive of the capital conservation buffer of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%; (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5% and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets. In addition, M&T is also subject to the Federal Reserve’s capital plan rule and supervisory Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) process, pursuant to which its ability to make capital distributions and repurchase or redeem capital securities may be limited unless M&T is able to demonstrate its ability to meet applicable minimum capital ratios, as well as other requirements, over a nine quarter planning horizon under a “severely adverse” macroeconomic scenario generated yearly by the federal banking regulators. See “Stress Testing and Capital Plan Review” herein. 

The New Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that could not be realized through net operating loss carrybacks, and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1, although a notice of proposed rulemaking is pending which may change these thresholds. 

In addition, under the risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company through December 31, 2014, the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss (“AOCI”) items included in shareholders’ equity (for example, unrealized gains and losses on securities held in the available-for-sale portfolio) under U.S. GAAP were reversed for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Pursuant to the New Capital Rules, the effects of certain AOCI items are not excluded; however, non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including M&T, were permitted to make a one-time permanent election to continue to exclude these items. M&T made such election in 2015. The New Capital Rules also preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, from  

10 

inclusion in bank holding companies’ Tier 1 capital, subject to phase-out in the case of bank holding companies, such as M&T, that had $15 billion or more in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009. As a result, beginning in 2015, 25% of M&T’s trust preferred securities were includable in Tier 1 capital, and beginning in 2016, none of M&T’s trust preferred securities were includable in Tier 1 capital. Trust preferred securities no longer included in M&T’s Tier 1 capital may nonetheless be included as a component of Tier 2 capital on a permanent basis without phase-out and irrespective of whether such securities otherwise meet the revised definition of Tier 2 capital set forth in the New Capital Rules. M&T’s regulatory capital ratios are presented in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 

Stress Testing and Capital Plan Review 

As part of the enhanced prudential requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions, the Federal Reserve conducts annual analyses of bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets, such as M&T, to determine whether the companies have sufficient capital on a consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses in three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve: baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios. M&T is also required to conduct its own stress analysis (together with the Federal Reserve’s stress analysis, the “stress tests”) to assess the potential impact on M&T of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserve’s annual stress analysis. The Federal Reserve may also use, and require companies to use, additional components in the adverse and severely adverse scenarios or additional or more complex scenarios designed to capture salient risks to specific business groups. M&T Bank is also required to conduct annual stress testing using the same economic and financial scenarios as M&T and report the results to the Federal Reserve. A summary of results of the Federal Reserve’s analysis under the adverse and severely adverse stress scenarios are publicly disclosed, and bank holding companies subject to the rules, including M&T, must disclose a summary of the company-run severely adverse stress test results. M&T is required to include in its disclosure a summary of the severely adverse scenario stress test conducted by M&T Bank. 

In addition, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T, must submit annual capital plans for approval as part of the Federal Reserve’s CCAR process. Covered bank holding companies may execute capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing stock, only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed and approved by the Federal Reserve (or any approved amendments to such plan). The comprehensive capital plans include a view of capital adequacy under various scenarios — including a BHC-defined baseline scenario, a baseline scenario provided by the Federal Reserve, at least one BHC-defined stress scenario, and adverse and severely adverse scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve. The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that these bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. Each of the bank holding companies participating in the CCAR process is also required to collect and report certain related data to the Federal Reserve on a quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve to monitor progress against the approved capital plans. Each capital plan must include a view of capital adequacy under the stress test scenarios described above. The Federal Reserve may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered BHC will maintain sufficient regulatory capital ratios on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. The rules also provide that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless after giving effect to the distribution it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios. The CCAR rules, consistent with prior Federal Reserve guidance, also provide that capital plans contemplating  

11 

dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of net income will receive particularly close scrutiny. M&T’s annual CCAR capital plan is due in April each year and the Federal Reserve will publish the results of its supervisory CCAR review of M&T’s capital plan by June 30 of each year. 

The Federal Reserve generally limits a BHC’s ability to make quarterly capital distributions – that is, dividends and share repurchases, if the amount of the BHC’s actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than the BHC had indicated in its submitted capital plan as to which it received a non-objection from the Federal Reserve. For example, if the BHC issued a smaller amount of additional common stock than it had stated in its capital plan, it would be required to reduce common dividends and/or the amount of common stock repurchases so that the dollar amount of capital distributions, net of the dollar amount of additional common stock issued (“net distributions”), is no greater than the dollar amount of net distributions relating to its common stock included in its capital plan, as measured on an aggregate basis beginning in the third quarter of the nine-quarter planning horizon through the end of the then current quarter. However, not raising sufficient amounts of common stock as planned would not affect distributions related to Additional Tier 1 Capital instruments and/ or Tier 2 Capital. These limitations also contain several important qualifications and exceptions, including that scheduled dividend payments on (as opposed to repurchases of) a BHC’s Additional Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital instruments are not restricted if the BHC fails to issue a sufficient amount of such instruments as planned, as well as provisions for certain de minimis excess distributions. 

Liquidity 

Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and BHC liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. However, in January 2016 M&T became subject to final rules adopted by the Federal Reserve and other banking regulators (“Final LCR Rule”) implementing a U.S. version of the Basel Committee’s Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) requirement. The LCR requirement is intended to ensure that banks hold sufficient amounts of so-called “high quality liquid assets” (“HQLA”) to cover the anticipated net cash outflows during a hypothetical acute 30-day stress scenario. The LCR is the ratio of an institution’s amount of HQLA (the numerator) over projected net cash out-flows over the 30-day horizon (the denominator), in each case, as calculated pursuant to the Final LCR Rule. The Final LCR Rule requires a subject institution to maintain an LCR equal to at least 100% in order to satisfy this regulatory requirement. Only specific classes of assets, including U.S. Treasury securities, other U.S. government obligations and agency mortgaged-backed securities, qualify under the rule as HQLA, with classes of assets deemed relatively less liquid and/or subject to greater degree of credit risk subject to certain haircuts and caps for purposes of calculating the numerator under the Final LCR Rule. The total net cash outflows amount is determined under the rule by applying prescribed hypothetical outflow and inflow rates, which reflect standardized stressed assumptions, against the balances of the banking organization’s funding sources, obligations, transactions and assets over the 30-day stress period. Inflows that can be included to offset outflows are limited to 75% of outflows (which effectively means that banking organizations must hold high-quality liquid assets equal to 25% of outflows even if outflows perfectly match inflows over the stress period). As of January 1, 2017, the Final LCR Rule has been fully phased-in and M&T will be required to publicly disclose its LCR beginning in October 2018. 

The Basel III framework also included a second standard, referred to as the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), which is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-year time horizon. In May 2016, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking regulators issued a proposed rule that would implement the NSFR for large U.S. banking organizations. Under the proposed rule, the most stringent requirements would apply to bank  

12 

holding companies with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure, and would require such organizations to maintain a minimum NSFR of 1.0 on an ongoing basis, calculated by dividing the organization’s available stable funding (“ASF”) by its required stable funding (“RSF”). Bank holding companies with less than $250 billion, but more than $50 billion, in total consolidated assets and less than $10 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposure, such as M&T, would be subject to a modified NSFR requirement. The modified requirement allows the qualifying bank to apply a 70% factor to the RSF denominator in determining the NSFR. Under the proposed rule, a banking organization’s ASF would be calculated by applying specified standard weightings to its equity and liabilities based on their expected stability over a one-year time horizon and its RSF would be calculated by applying specified standardized weightings to its assets, derivative exposures and commitments based on their liquidity characteristics over the same one-year time horizon. Originally proposed to take effect in January 2018, the rule is yet to be finalized with no indication of a new implementation date.  

Cross Guaranty Provision 

The cross guaranty provisions in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) were enacted by Congress in the Financial Institutions, Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”) and require each insured depository institution owned by the same BHC to be financially responsible for the failure or resolution costs of any affiliated insured institution. Generally, the amount of the cross guaranty liability is equal to the estimated loss to the DIF for the resolution of the affiliated institution(s) in default. The FDIC’s claim under the cross guaranty provision is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or its BHC and to most claims arising out of obligations or liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository institution. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross guaranty provision if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the DIF. 

Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards 

The Dodd-Frank Act directed the Federal Reserve to enact enhanced prudential standards applicable to foreign banking organizations (“FBOs”) and bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. The Federal Reserve adopted amendments to Regulation YY to implement certain of the required enhanced prudential standards. Those amendments, which are intended to strengthen supervision and regulation of bank holding companies and FBOs incorporate new requirements to help increase the resiliency of the operations of these organizations and ensure the stability of the U.S. financial system and economy in the event of such an organization’s failure. These requirements include regulatory reporting, capital adequacy, capital stress testing, risk management, and liquidity. The liquidity requirements and risk management requirements became effective as to M&T on January 1, 2015. In March 2016, the Federal Reserve issued a revised proposal regarding single counterparty credit limits, which would impose a limit on a banking organization’s credit exposure to any single unaffiliated counterparty as a percentage of the organization’s capital. A final rule has not been issued. 

Volcker Rule 

On December 10, 2013, the federal banking regulators and the SEC adopted the so-called Volcker Rule to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act limiting proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain hedge funds and private equity funds (defined as “covered funds” in the Volcker Rule). The Volcker Rule was effective on April 1, 2014; however, the Federal Reserve exercised its authority to extend the compliance deadline to July 21, 2017 with respect to covered  

13 

funds. The Company does not engage in any significant amount of proprietary trading as defined in the Volcker Rule and implemented the required procedures for those areas in which trading does occur. The covered funds limits are imposed through a conformance period that ended in July 2017. During 2016, to comply with requirements of the Volcker Rule, the Company sold the collateralized debt obligations that had been held in the available-for-sale investment securities portfolio. Further, the Company sought, and received, from the Federal Reserve, a five-year extension (to July 21, 2022) to either divest or terminate its investment in one venture capital fund.  

Safety and Soundness Standards 

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies pursuant to the FDIA establish general standards relating to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth, compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties. 

Limits on Undercapitalized Depository Institutions 

The FDIA establishes a system of regulatory remedies to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions, referred to as the prompt corrective action. The federal banking regulators have established five capital categories (“well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”) and must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions which are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. The FDIC has specified by regulation the relevant capital levels for each category. The FDIA’s prompt corrective action provisions only apply to depository institutions and not to bank holding companies. The Federal Reserve’s regulations applicable to bank holding companies separately define “well capitalized.” A financial holding company that is not well-capitalized and well-managed (or whose bank subsidiaries are not well capitalized and well managed) under applicable prompt corrective action standards may be restricted in certain of its activities and ultimately may lose financial holding company status. Under existing rules, an institution that is not an advanced approaches institution is deemed to be “well capitalized” if it has (i) a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, (iii) a Total capital ratio of at least 10%, and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. 

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a BHC must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The BHC must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, accepting brokered deposits or offering interest  

14 

rates on any deposits significantly higher than prevailing market rates, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are significantly undercapitalized or undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator. 

Transactions with Affiliates 

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which M&T and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. In general, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Regulation W require that any “covered transaction” by M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. (or any of their respective subsidiaries) with an affiliate must in certain cases be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and must be limited as follows: (a) in the case of any single such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of such insured depository institution, and (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of an insured depository institution and its subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of such insured depository institution. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expanded the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization, including for example, the requirement that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions begin to apply to financial subsidiaries. “Covered transactions” are defined by statute to include, among other things, a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve) from the affiliate, certain derivative transactions that create a credit exposure to an affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. All covered transactions, including certain additional transactions (such as transactions with a third party in which an affiliate has a financial interest), must be conducted on market terms. 

FDIC Insurance Assessments 

Deposit Insurance Assessments. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC up to the limits set forth under applicable law. The FDIC imposes a risk-based premium assessment system that determines assessment rates for financial institutions. Deposit insurance assessments are based on average total assets minus average tangible equity. For larger institutions, such as M&T Bank, the FDIC uses a performance score and a loss-severity score that are used to calculate an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC uses a bank’s capital level and supervisory ratings and certain financial measures to assess an institution’s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the calculations. Under the current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 

In March 2016, the FDIC adopted a final rule that imposes a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 of assessment base, after making certain adjustments, for depository institutions with total assets of at least $10 billion, including M&T Bank. The surcharge became effective July 1, 2016 and will last until the DIF has reached the required level set forth in the DIF restoration plan. If the DIF has not reached the required level by the prescribed time, the FDIC will impose a special assessment on institutions with assets greater than $10 billion. M&T Bank recognized $95 million of expense  

15 

related to its FDIC assessment and large bank surcharge and Wilmington Trust, N.A. recognized $579 thousand of FDIC insurance expense in 2017. Beginning in 2018, amounts paid for FDIC deposit insurance will no longer be deductible for purposes of determining federal taxable income. 

Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. 

FICO Assessments. In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. M&T Bank recognized $6 million of expense related to its FICO assessments and Wilmington Trust, N.A. recognized $87 thousand of such expense in 2017. 

Acquisitions 

The BHCA requires every BHC to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the BHC will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other BHC. Since July 2011, financial holding companies and bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion, such as M&T, have been required to (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve before acquiring certain nonbank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. 

The BHCA further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties’ performance under the CRA and compliance with consumer protection laws. The Federal Reserve must take into account the institutions’ effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHCA was amended to require the Federal Reserve, when evaluating a proposed transaction, to consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system. 

Executive and Incentive Compensation 

Guidelines adopted by several federal banking agencies prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as “excessive” when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee,  

16 

director or principal stockholder. The Federal Reserve issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies (the “Incentive Compensation Guidance”) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Incentive Compensation Guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. These three principles are incorporated into the proposed joint compensation regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, discussed below. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The Incentive Compensation Guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies. 

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies and the SEC to establish joint regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities having at least $1 billion in total assets, such as M&T and M&T Bank. The agencies proposed initial regulations in April 2011 and proposed revised regulations in 2016 that would establish general qualitative requirements applicable to all covered entities, additional specific requirements for entities with total consolidated assets of at least $50 billion, such as M&T, and further, more stringent requirements for those with total consolidated assets of at least $250 billion. The general qualitative requirements include (i) prohibiting incentive arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks by providing excessive compensation; (ii) prohibiting incentive arrangements that encourage inappropriate risks that could lead to a material financial loss; (iii) establishing requirements for performance measures to appropriately balance risk and reward; (iv) requiring board of director oversight of incentive arrangements; and (v) mandating appropriate record-keeping. For larger financial institutions, including M&T, the proposed revised regulations would also introduce additional requirements applicable only to “senior executive officers” and “significant risk-takers” (as defined in the proposed regulations), including (i) limits on performance measures and leverage relating to performance targets; (ii) minimum deferral periods; and (iii) subjecting incentive compensation to possible downward adjustment, forfeiture and clawback. If the final regulations are adopted in the form proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which M&T may structure compensation for its executives. 

In October 2016, the NYSDFS issued guidance emphasizing that its regulated banking institutions, including M&T Bank, must ensure that any incentive compensation arrangements tied to employee performance indicators are subject to effective risk management, oversight and control. 

The scope and content of the banking regulators’ policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of M&T and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees. 

Resolution Planning 

Bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T, are required to report periodically to regulators a resolution plan for their rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. M&T’s resolution plan must, among other things, ensure that  

17 

its depository institution subsidiaries are adequately protected from risks arising from its other subsidiaries. The regulation adopted by the Federal Reserve and FDIC sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan’s components, a description of the range of specific actions the company proposes to take in resolution, and a description of the company’s organizational structure, material entities, core business lines, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements. The most recent resolution plan for M&T was filed in December 2017. 

In addition, insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as M&T Bank, are required to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure. M&T Bank submitted its most recent resolution plan in December 2015, as required. The next resolution plan for M&T Bank is required to be filed by July 1, 2018, reflecting an FDIC-directed extension from the original filing due date of December 31, 2017. 

Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company 

If the FDIC is appointed as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution such as M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A., upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power: 

•  

to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor, including a newly formed “bridge” bank without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors; 

•  

to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms without regard to any provisions triggered by the appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or 

•  

to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution. 

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A., the debt holders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the bank. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime (known as “orderly liquidation authority”) for systemically important financial companies, including bank holding companies and their affiliates. Under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver for the systemically important institution, and its failed subsidiaries, for purposes of liquidating the entity if, among other conditions, it is determined at the time of the institution’s failure that it is in default or in danger of default and the failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S. financial system. 

If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, then the powers of the receiver, and the rights and obligations of creditors and other parties who have dealt with the institution, would be determined under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, and not under the insolvency law that would otherwise apply. The powers of the receiver under the orderly liquidation authority were based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver for depository institutions under the FDIA. However, the provisions governing the rights of creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified in certain respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors’ claims under  

18 

the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist as between these two regimes, including the right of the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors’ claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity. 

An orderly liquidation fund will fund such liquidation proceedings through borrowings from the Treasury Department and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, M&T could face assessments for the orderly liquidation fund. 

The FDIC has developed a strategy under the orderly liquidation authority referred to as the “single point of entry” strategy, under which the FDIC would resolve a failed financial holding company by transferring its assets (including shares of its operating subsidiaries) and, potentially, very limited liabilities to a “bridge” holding company; utilize the resources of the failed financial holding company to recapitalize the operating subsidiaries; and satisfy the claims of unsecured creditors of the failed financial holding company and other claimants in the receivership by delivering securities of one or more new financial companies that would emerge from the bridge holding company. Under this strategy, management of the failed financial holding company would be replaced and shareholders and creditors of the failed financial holding company would bear the losses resulting from the failure. 

Depositor Preference 

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are payable only outside of the United States and the parent BHC, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution. 

Financial Privacy and Cyber Security 

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means. 

In October 2016, the federal banking regulators jointly issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cyber risk management standards that are intended to increase the operational resilience of large and interconnected entities under their supervision. Once established,  

19 

the enhanced cyber risk management standards would help to reduce the potential impact of a cyber-attack or other cyber-related failure on the financial system. The advance notice of proposed rulemaking addresses five categories of cyber standards: (1) cyber risk governance; (2) cyber risk management; (3) internal dependency management; (4) external dependency management; and (5) incident response, cyber resilience, and situational awareness. In March 2017, regulations enacted by the NYSDFS became effective that require financial institutions regulated by the NYSDFS, including M&T Bank, to, among other things, (i) establish and maintain a cyber security program designed to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of their information systems; (ii) implement and maintain a written cyber security policy setting forth policies and procedures for the protection of their information systems and nonpublic information; and (iii) designate a Chief Information Security Officer. M&T Bank is in full compliance with these requirements. 

Consumer Protection Laws and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Supervision 

In connection with their respective lending and leasing activities, M&T Bank, Wilmington Trust, N.A. and certain of their subsidiaries, are each subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy. Such laws include: the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, and various state law counterparts. Furthermore, the CFPB has issued integrated disclosure requirements under the Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act that relate to the provision of disclosures to borrowers. There are also consumer protection laws governing deposit taking activities (e.g. Truth in Savings Act), as well securities and insurance laws governing certain aspects of the Company’s consolidated operations. 

The Dodd-Frank Act established the CFPB with broad powers to supervise and enforce most federal consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets, including M&T Bank. 

The CFPB has focused on: 

•  

risks to consumers and compliance with the federal consumer financial laws, when it evaluates the policies and practices of a financial institution; 

•  

the markets in which firms operate and risks to consumers posed by activities in those markets; 

•  

depository institutions that offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services; 

•  

depository institutions with a more specialized focus; and 

•  

non-depository companies that offer one or more consumer financial products or services. 

One of the important rules in governing deposits is the Electronic Fund Transfer Act which, among other things, prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machines (“ATM”) and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those type of transactions. If a consumer does not opt in, any ATM transaction or one-time debit card transaction sent for approval that exceeds the customer’s available balance will be declined. Overdrafts on other types of transactions (e.g. checks, recurring debit card transactions and ACH transactions) are not covered by this rule. Before opting in, the consumer must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices. Financial institutions must  

20 

provide consumers who do not opt in with the same account terms, conditions and features (including pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in. 

The CFPB issued final rules that change the reporting requirements for lenders under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act. The new rules, which went into effect on January 1, 2018, expand the range of transactions subject to the requirements to include most securitized residential mortgage loans and credit lines. The rules also increased the overall amount of data required to be collected and submitted, including additional data points about loans and borrowers. 

Community Reinvestment Act 

The CRA is intended to encourage depository institutions to help meet the credit needs of the communities in which they operate, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with safe and sound operations. CRA examinations are conducted by the federal agencies that are responsible for supervising depository institutions: the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OCC. A financial institution's performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its community is evaluated in the context of information about the institution (capacity, constraints and business strategies), its community (demographic and economic data, lending, investment, and service opportunities), and its competitors and peers. Upon completion of a CRA examination, an overall CRA Rating is assigned using a four-tiered rating system. These ratings are: “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” and “Substantial Noncompliance.” The CRA evaluation is used in evaluating applications for future approval of bank activities including mergers, acquisitions, charters, branch openings and deposit facilities. M&T Bank has a rating of “Outstanding.” M&T Bank is also subject to New York State CRA examination and is assessed using a 1 to 4 scoring system. M&T Bank has an “Outstanding” rating from the NYSDFS. Wilmington Trust, N.A. was subject to the CRA until March 3, 2016 when the OCC changed its designation of Wilmington Trust, N.A. to a special purpose trust company, which exempts Wilmington Trust, N.A. from the requirements of the CRA. 

Bank Secrecy and Anti-Money Laundering 

Federal laws and regulations impose obligations on U.S. financial institutions, including banks and broker/dealer subsidiaries, to implement and maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls which are reasonably designed to prevent, detect and report instances of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and to verify the identity of their customers. In addition, these provisions require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. As a result of an examination by the FRBNY, on June 17, 2013, M&T and M&T Bank entered into a written agreement with the FRBNY related to M&T Bank’s Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”)/Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”) procedures pursuant to which M&T and M&T Bank implemented a BSA/AML program with significantly expanded scale and scope. M&T and M&T Bank resolved all outstanding issues in the written agreement and the FRBNY terminated the written agreement on July 27, 2017. 

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation 

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however,  

21 

they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on “U.S. persons” engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g. property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences. 

Federal Reserve Policies 

The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve are open-market operations in U.S. Government securities and federal funds, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits. The Federal Reserve frequently uses these instruments of monetary policy, especially its open-market operations and the discount rate, to influence the level of interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the level of inflation or the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve have had a significant effect on the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to predict the nature of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies or the effect which they may have on the Company’s business and earnings. 

Competition 

The Company competes in offering commercial and personal financial and wealth services with other banking institutions and thrifts and with firms in a number of other industries, such as credit unions, personal loan companies, sales finance companies, leasing companies, securities brokerage firms, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, wealth and investment advisory firms, insurance companies and other financial services-related entities. Furthermore, diversified financial services companies are able to offer a combination of these services to their customers on a nationwide basis. The Company’s operations are significantly impacted by state and federal regulations applicable to the banking industry. Moreover, provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Interstate Banking Act and state banking laws have allowed for increased competition among diversified financial services providers and e-commerce and other Internet-based companies. 

Other Information 

Through a link on the Investor Relations section of M&T’s website at www.mtb.com, copies of M&T’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. Copies of such reports and other information are also available at no charge to any person who requests them or at www.sec.gov. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5138). The public may read and  

22 

copy any materials that M&T files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

Corporate Governance 

M&T’s Corporate Governance Standards and the following corporate governance documents are also available on M&T’s website at the Investor Relations link: Disclosure and Regulation FD Policy; Executive Committee Charter; Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee Charter; Audit Committee Charter; Risk Committee Charter; Financial Reporting and Disclosure Controls and Procedures Policy; Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters; and Excessive or Luxury Expenditures Policy. Copies of such governance documents are also available, free of charge, to any person who requests them. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5138). 

Statistical Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3 

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional information is included in the following tables. 

23 

Table 1 

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 2 

SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND OFFICES 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

24 

Table 3 

CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

25 

Table 4 

COMMON SHAREHOLDER DATA 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 5 

CHANGES IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE(a) 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a)  

Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The apportionment of changes resulting from the combined effect of both volume and rate was based on the separately determined volume and rate changes. 

26 

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors.