PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

References in this report to “we”, “us” and “our” are to Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (the “Company”) and one or more of its subsidiaries, as the context requires.

GENERAL

The Company is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions principally in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world's leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, the management, economic and brand consultancy. With approximately 54,000 employees worldwide and annual revenue of approximately $12 billion, the Company provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries.

The Company conducts business through two segments:

•Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk control and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. We conduct business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

•Consulting includes Retirement, Health, Talent and Investments consulting and services, and specialized management and economic consulting services. We conduct business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

We describe our current segments in further detail below. We provide financial information about our segments in our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

OUR BUSINESSES

RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES

The Risk and Insurance Services segment generated approximately 55% of the Company's total revenue in 2012 and employs approximately 29,000 colleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter.

MARSH

Marsh is a world leader in delivering risk and insurance services and solutions to its clients. From its founding in 1871 to the present day, Marsh has provided thought leadership and innovation for clients and the insurance industry, introducing and promoting the concept and practice of client representation through brokerage, the discipline of risk management, the globalization of insurance and risk management services and many other innovative tools and service platforms.

Marsh generated approximately 46% of the Company's total segment revenue in 2012. Approximately 27,000 Marsh colleagues provide risk management, risk consulting, insurance broking, alternative risk financing, and insurance program management services to a wide range of businesses, government entities, professional service organizations and individuals in more than 100 countries.

Marsh's clients vary by size, industry, geography and risk exposures. Marsh is organized to serve clients efficiently and effectively, delivering tailored solutions based on complexity of risk and geographic footprint, and matched to clients' buying styles.

Insurance Broking and Risk Consulting

In its main insurance broking and risk consulting business, Marsh employs a team approach to address clients' risk management and insurance needs. Each client relationship is coordinated by a client executive or client manager who draws from the many industry and risk specialties within Marsh to assemble the resources needed to analyze, measure and assist a client in managing its various risks. Product and service offerings include program design and placement, post-placement program support and administration, claims support and advocacy, alternative risk strategies, and a wide array of risk analysis and risk management consulting services. Within Marsh, there are significant specialties or 

 1 

businesses in addition to its main brokerage operations that serve as an important part of the overall capabilities it offers clients. These include Multinational Client Service; Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices; Marsh Global Analytics; Marsh Risk Solutions; Bowring Marsh; Marsh & McLennan Agency; Insurance Services Businesses; Global Consumer Operations; and Insurer Consulting.

Multinational Client Service

Multinational Client Service (MCS) is focused on delivering service excellence and insurance solutions to multinational clients, irrespective of their size. MCS provides risk management programs with a service platform that comprises a combination of proprietary tools and technology and specialized resources. MCS provides global expertise and an intimate knowledge of local markets, helping clients navigate local regulatory and legal environments and address the worldwide risk issues that confront them.

Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices

In further support of its clients' strategic, operational and risk management objectives, Marsh provides consultative advice, brokerage and claims advocacy services through dedicated global Risk, Specialty and Industry Practices in the areas listed below. For both large and mid-size organizations, Practice colleagues apply their experience and working knowledge of clients' industry sectors, and of the unique environments in which they operate, to facilitate the requisite breadth of coverage and to reduce the cost of risk.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Marsh Global Analytics

Marsh's Global Analytics group applies analytics to risk and business management to help foster a better understanding of issues, substantiate decision making, support the implementation of innovative solutions and strategies, and reduce costs through risk financing optimization, catastrophic loss modeling and benchmarking information and tools.

Marsh Risk Solutions

Marsh Risk Consulting and the Captive Solutions practice comprise the Marsh Risk Solutions (MRS) business unit. 

 2 

Marsh Risk Consulting (MRC) is a global organization comprised of specialists dedicated to providing clients with advice and solutions across a comprehensive range of insurable and non-insurable risk issues. MRC helps clients identify exposures, assess critical business functions and evaluate existing risk treatment practices and strategies. MRC provides client services in four main areas of exposure: 

•Property Risk Consulting: Delivers a range of property risk engineering and loss control identification, assessment, and mitigation consulting solutions.

•Financial Advisory, Claims, Litigation Support: Provides a range of services, including forensic accounting, complex claim consulting and management, claim accounting preparation, mass tort consulting, and construction delay and dispute consulting.

•Workforce Strategies: Supports clients' efforts to reduce workers' compensation loss costs, increase the quality, safety, and efficiency of operations, and develop and implement sustainable safety and health management systems.

•Strategic Risk Consulting: Provides a range of services, including supply and value chain management, crisis management, reputational risk, clinical health care risk management, and enterprise risk and resiliency services.

Captive Solutions. Operating in 36 captive domiciles, along with consulting expertise residing in Marsh brokerage offices worldwide, the Captive Solutions practice serves more than 1,200 captive facilities, including single-parent captives, reinsurance pools, risk retention groups and others. The practice includes the Captive Advisory group, a consulting arm that performs captive feasibility studies and helps to structure and implement captive solutions, and Captive Management, an industry leader in managing captive facilities and in providing administrative, consultative and insurance-related services.

Bowring Marsh

Bowring Marsh is an international placement broker for property (including terrorism) and casualty risks. Bowring Marsh utilizes placement expertise in major international insurance market hubs, including Bermuda, Brazil, Dublin, London, Miami, Singapore, Tokyo and Zurich, and an integrated global network to secure advantageous terms and conditions for its clients throughout the world.

Marsh & McLennan Agency

Established in 2008, the Marsh & McLennan Agency ("MMA") meets the needs of mid-sized businesses in the United States. MMA's services are targeted to customers who seek professional advice on program structure, market knowledge, experience and expertise in their industry, competitive prices, and local resources and service professionals. MMA offers a broad range of commercial property, casualty and surety products and services, personal lines, as well as a broad range of solutions for employee health and benefits, retirement and administration needs, and life insurance/estate planning to clients through a dedicated sales and service force in retail locations, operating separately and in coordination with Marsh's other insurance broking operations.

Insurance Services Businesses (ISB)

Effective January 1, 2013, the management of Marsh's U.S. Consumer businesses, the Schinnerer Group and CS STARS were combined into one business unit called Insurance Services Businesses. 

Marsh U.S. Consumer. Marsh has operated an array of consumer-oriented businesses which focus on insurance administration, servicing and sales to individual clients, either as standalone customers or as part of an affinity program. These businesses include Corporate Benefits, Association, Private Client Services and Sponsored Program & Franchise. Corporate Benefits, Association and Sponsored Program & Franchise are affinity/program businesses that sell and administer insurance products and services, most typically working through a sponsoring organization (e.g., employers, franchisors, associations). Products sold include property & casualty homeowners and/or commercial insurance as well as life, accident and health insurance coverages. Private Client Services provides sales and service to high net worth individuals, families and their advisors and focuses on delivery of property and casualty risk management solutions. 

 3 

Effective January 1, 2013, the Corporate Benefits and Association businesses transferred to Mercer, while the Private Client Services and Sponsored Program & Franchise businesses will remain within the Insurance Services Businesses division at Marsh.

In 2011, Marsh decided to exit its business processing outsourcing ("BPO") business and in 2012, Marsh decided to exit its individual life insurance business in the U.S. known as Private Client Life Insurance Services, both of which were previously included in the Marsh U.S. Consumer operating unit. 

Schinnerer Group. As one of the largest underwriting managers of professional liability and specialty insurance programs in the United States, Victor O. Schinnerer & Co. provides risk management and insurance solutions to clients through licensed brokers. This group includes ENCON Group Inc., a leading managing general agent in Canada. ENCON offers professional liability and construction insurance, as well as group and retiree benefits programs for individuals, professionals, organizations and businesses, through a national network of licensed insurance brokers and plan advisors.

CS STARS serves the technology needs of risk management professionals, as well as insurance carriers and third-party administrators, through integrated software and services that support risk management, claims administration, compliance management, and data management.

Global Consumer Operations

Marsh also operates a global Consumer business outside of the ISB business unit that focuses on either or both of affinity/program marketing and administration opportunities and high net worth individual insurance sales. These programs include a range of group health and life coverages, as well as property and casualty coverages. 

Insurer Consulting

Marsh provides consulting and data analytics services to insurers. Through Marsh's patented electronic platform, MarketConnect, Marsh provides to insurers individualized preference setting and risk identification capabilities, as well as detailed performance data and metrics. Insurer consulting teams review performance metrics and preferences with insurers and work with them to help improve their performance, enhance their efficiency in the placement process and make their offerings more competitive and appealing to clients and prospects.

GUY CARPENTER

Guy Carpenter generated approximately 9% of the Company's total revenue in 2012. Over 2,200 Guy Carpenter professionals create and execute reinsurance and risk management solutions for clients worldwide, by providing risk assessment analytics, actuarial services, highly specialized product knowledge and trading relationships with reinsurance markets. Client services also include contract and claims management and fiduciary accounting.

Acting as a broker or intermediary on all classes of reinsurance, Guy Carpenter places two main types of property and casualty reinsurance: treaty reinsurance, which involves the transfer of a portfolio of risks; and facultative reinsurance, which entails the transfer of part or all of the coverage provided by a single insurance policy.

Guy Carpenter also provides reinsurance services in a broad range of specialty practice areas, including: agriculture; alternative risk transfer (such as group-based captives and insurance pools); aviation & aerospace; casualty clash (losses involving multiple policies or insureds); construction and engineering; credit, bond & political risk; excess & umbrella; general casualty; life, accident & health; marine and energy; medical professional liability; professional liability; program manager solutions; property; retrocessional reinsurance (reinsurance between reinsurers); surety (reinsurance of surety bonds and other financial guarantees); terror risk and workers compensation.

 4 

Guy Carpenter also offers clients alternatives to traditional reinsurance, including industry loss warranties and, through its appropriately licensed affiliates, capital markets alternatives such as transferring catastrophe risk through the issuance of risk-linked securities. GC Securities, the Guy Carpenter division of MMC Securities Corp., offers corporate finance solutions, including mergers & acquisitions and private debt and equity capital raising, and capital markets-based risk transfer solutions that complement Guy Carpenter's strong industry relationships, analytical capabilities and reinsurance expertise.

In addition, Guy Carpenter provides its clients with numerous reinsurance-related services, such as actuarial, enterprise risk management, financial and regulatory consulting, portfolio analysis and advice on the efficient use of capital. Guy Carpenter's GC Analytics® unit serves as a local resource that helps clients better understand and quantify the uncertainties inherent in their businesses. Working in close partnership with Guy Carpenter account executives, GC Analytics specialists can help support clients' critical decisions in numerous areas, including reinsurance utilization, catastrophe exposure portfolio management, new product/market development, rating agency, regulatory and account impacts, loss reserve risk, capital adequacy and return on capital.

Compensation for Services in Risk and Insurance Services

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees and commissions. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer selected, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiations with clients. Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. In certain countries, Marsh is compensated for insurer consulting services in the form of a fee or as a percentage of premium (or a combination of both). For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk and Insurance Services segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.

CONSULTING

The Company's consulting segment generated approximately 45% of the Company's total revenue in 2012 and employs approximately 23,000 colleagues worldwide. The Company conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.

MERCER

Mercer is a global consulting leader in talent, health, retirement and investments. Mercer helps clients around the world advance the health, wealth and performance of their most vital asset - their people. Mercer's approximately 19,600 employees are based in more than 40 countries. Clients include a majority of the companies in the Fortune 1000 and FTSE 100, as well as medium- and small-market organizations. Mercer generated approximately 33% of the Company's total revenue in 2012.

Mercer operates in the following areas:

Retirement. Mercer provides a wide range of strategic and compliance-related retirement services and solutions to corporate, governmental and institutional clients. Mercer assists clients worldwide in the design, governance and risk management of defined benefit, defined contribution and hybrid retirement plans. Mercer's financial approach to retirement services enables clients to consider the benefits, accounting, funding and investment aspects of plan design and management in the context of business objectives and governance requirements.

Health. In its health & benefits business, Mercer assists public and private sector employers in the design, management and administration of employee health care programs; compliance with local benefits-related regulations; and the establishment of health and welfare benefits coverage for employees. Mercer provides advice and solutions to employers on: total health management strategies; global health brokerage solutions; vendor performance and audit; life and disability management; and measurement of healthcare provider performance. These services are provided through traditional consulting as well as commission-based brokerage services in connection with the selection of insurance companies and healthcare providers.

 5 

Talent. Mercer's talent businesses advise organizations on the engagement, management and rewarding of employees; the design of executive remuneration programs; and improvement of human resource (HR) effectiveness. Through proprietary survey data and decision support tools, Mercer's information products solutions business provides clients with human capital information and analytical capabilities to improve strategic human capital decision making. Mercer's communication business helps clients to plan and implement HR programs and other organizational changes in order to maximize employee engagement, drive desired employee behaviors and achieve improvements in business performance.

Investments. Mercer provides investment consulting and other services to the fiduciaries of pension funds, foundations, endowments, other investors and wealth management companies in more than 35 countries. Mercer's services cover all stages of the institutional investment process, from strategy, structure and implementation to ongoing portfolio management. 

Mercer provides delegated investment (fiduciary management) solutions to institutional investors (such as retirement plan sponsors and trustees), and to individual investors (primarily through the inclusion of funds managed by Mercer on defined contribution and wealth management platforms). Solutions include bundled services for frozen defined benefit plans utilizing our expertise in liability-driven investment and actuarial techniques, and personal wealth solutions. Mercer offers a diverse range of solutions to meet a full spectrum of risk/return preferences and manages investment vehicles across a range of investment strategies for clients globally. As of December 31, 2012, Mercer had assets under management of $69.8 billion worldwide.

Mercer also provides benefits administration services to clients globally as part of its Retirement, Health and Investments businesses. Mercer's administration offerings include total benefits outsourcing; total retirement outsourcing, including administration and delivery for retirement benefits; and stand-alone services for defined benefit administration, defined contribution administration, health benefits administration and flexible benefits programs.

OLIVER WYMAN GROUP

With approximately 3,400 professionals and offices in 25 countries, Oliver Wyman Group delivers advisory services to clients through three operating units, each of which is a leader in its field: Oliver Wyman; Lippincott; and NERA Economic Consulting. Oliver Wyman Group generated approximately 12% of the Company's total revenue in 2012.

Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consulting firm. Oliver Wyman's consultants specialize by industry and functional area, allowing clients to benefit from both deep sector knowledge and specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management and organizational transformation. Industry groups include:

•Automotive;

•Aviation, Aerospace and Defense;

•Communications, Media and Technology;

•Energy;

•Financial services, including corporate and institutional banking, insurance, wealth and asset management, public policy, and retail and business banking;

•Industrial products and services;

•Health and life sciences;

•Retail and consumer products; and

•Surface transportation.

Oliver Wyman overlays its industry knowledge with expertise in the following functional specializations:

•Actuarial. Oliver Wyman offers actuarial consulting services to public and private enterprises, self-insured group organizations, insurance companies, government entities, insurance regulatory agencies and other organizations. 

 6 

•Business and Organization Transformation. Oliver Wyman advises organizations undergoing or anticipating profound change or facing strategic discontinuities or risks by providing guidance on leading the institution, structuring its operations, improving its performance, and building its organizational capabilities.

•Corporate Finance & Restructuring. Oliver Wyman provides an array of capabilities to support investment decision making by private equity funds, hedge funds, sovereign wealth funds, investment banks, commercial banks, arrangers, strategic investors, and insurers.

•Risk Management. Oliver Wyman works with CFOs, CROs, and other senior finance and risk management executives of corporations and financial institutions. Oliver Wyman provides a range of services that provide effective, customized solutions to the challenges presented by the evolving roles, needs and priorities of these individuals and organizations.

•Marketing and Sales. Oliver Wyman advises leading firms in the areas of offer/pricing optimization; product/service portfolio management; product innovation; marketing spend optimization; value-based customer management; and sales and distribution model transformation.

•Operations and Technology. Oliver Wyman offers market-leading IT organization design, IT economics management, Lean Six Sigma principles and methodologies, and sourcing expertise to clients across a broad range of industries.

•Strategy. Oliver Wyman is a leading provider of corporate strategy advice and solutions in the areas of growth strategy and corporate portfolio; non-organic growth and M&A; performance improvement; business design and innovation; corporate center and shared services; and strategic planning.

Lippincott is a brand strategy and design consulting firm which advises corporations around the world in a variety of industries on corporate branding, identity and image. Lippincott has helped create some of the world's most recognized brands.

NERA Economic Consulting provides economic analysis and advice to public and private entities to achieve practical solutions to highly complex business and legal issues arising from competition, regulation, public policy, strategy, finance and litigation. NERA professionals operate worldwide assisting clients including corporations, governments, law firms, regulatory agencies, trade associations, and international agencies. NERA's specialized practice areas include: antitrust; securities; complex commercial litigation; energy; environmental economics; network industries; intellectual property; product liability and mass torts; and transfer pricing.

Compensation for Services in Consulting

Mercer and the Oliver Wyman Group businesses are compensated for advice and services primarily through fees paid by clients. Mercer's health & benefits business is compensated through commissions for the placement of insurance contracts (comprising more than half of the revenue in the health & benefits business) and consulting fees. Mercer's discretionary investment management business and certain of Mercer's defined contribution administration services are compensated typically through fees based on assets under administration and/or management. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in the Consulting segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.

REGULATION

The Company's activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under United States federal and state laws, as well as laws of other countries in which the Company's subsidiaries operate. See Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below for a discussion of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our businesses.

Risk and Insurance Services. While laws and regulations vary from location to location, every state of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions require insurance market intermediaries and related service providers (such as insurance brokers, agents and consultants, reinsurance brokers, managing 

 7 

general agents and third party administrators) to hold an individual and/or company license from a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization. Some jurisdictions issue licenses only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities; in those instances, if the Company has no licensed subsidiary, it may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in such jurisdiction. Such arrangements are subject to an internal review and approval process. Licensing of reinsurance intermediary brokers is generally less rigorous as compared to insurance regulation, and most jurisdictions require only corporate reinsurance intermediary licenses.

Beginning in January 2005, all European Union member states were required to implement the Insurance Mediation Directive. This Directive aims to apply consistent minimum professional standards to insurance and reinsurance intermediaries, including a licensing system based on an assessment of factors such as professional competence, financial capacity and professional indemnity insurance. The adoption by member states of the European Union of regulations to comply with the Directive has led our insurance intermediary operations in the European Union to become subject to enhanced regulatory requirements. In January 2005, as part of the implementation of the Directive in the United Kingdom, the power and responsibilities of the Financial Services Authority ("FSA") were expanded to include regulation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries in the United Kingdom.

Insurance authorities in the United States and certain other jurisdictions in which the Company's subsidiaries do business, including the FSA in the United Kingdom, also have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations typically provide for segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them, and generally apply to both the insurance and reinsurance business.

Certain of the Company's Risk and Insurance Services activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment, securities and futures licensing authorities. In the United States, Marsh and Guy Carpenter use the services of MMC Securities Corp., a broker-dealer and investment adviser, registered in the U.S. with the SEC, and a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Agency (FINRA) and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), primarily in connection with investment banking-related services relating to insurance-linked and alternative risk financing transactions. Also in the United States, Marsh uses the services of NIA Securities, LLC, a U.S. registered broker-dealer and investment adviser. Guy Carpenter provides advice on securities or investments in the European Union through MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, which is authorized and regulated by the FSA. Marsh also receives investment management services in the European Union from Marsh Investment Services Limited, which is also regulated by the FSA. MMC Securities Corp., MMC Securities (Europe) Limited, NIA Securities, LLC, and Marsh Investment Services Limited are indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.

In some jurisdictions, insurance-related taxes may be due either directly from clients or from the insurance broker. In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the client for payment.

Consulting. Certain of Mercer's retirement-related consulting services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries, including by the SEC in the United States and the FSA in the United Kingdom. In addition, the trustee services, investment services (including advice to persons, institutions and other entities on the investment of pension assets and assumption of discretionary investment management responsibilities) and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to investment and securities regulations in various jurisdictions. The benefits insurance consulting and brokerage services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to the same licensing requirements and regulatory oversight as the insurance market intermediaries described above regarding our Risk and Insurance Services businesses. Mercer uses the services of MMC Securities Corp. with the provision of certain retirement and employee benefit services. Oliver Wyman Group uses the services of MMC Securities Corp. (in the United States) and MMC Securities (Europe) Limited (in the European Union), primarily in connection with corporate finance advisory services.

COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS

 8 

The Company faces strong competition in all of its businesses from providers of similar products and services, including competition with regard to identifying and pursuing acquisition candidates. The Company also encounters strong competition throughout its businesses from both public corporations and private firms in attracting and retaining qualified employees. In addition to the discussion below, see “Risks Relating to the Company Generally-Competitive Risks,” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.

Risk and Insurance Services. The Company's combined insurance and reinsurance services businesses are global in scope. The principal bases upon which our insurance and reinsurance 

businesses compete include the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. The Company encounters strong competition from other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market, distribute and service their insurance and reinsurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms and consultants, that provide risk-related services and products. 

Certain insureds and groups of insureds have established programs of self insurance (including captive insurance companies) as a supplement or alternative to third-party insurance, thereby reducing in some cases their need for insurance placements. Certain insureds also obtain coverage directly from insurance providers. There are also many other providers of affinity group and private client services, including specialized firms, insurance companies and other institutions.

Consulting. The Company's consulting and HR outsourcing businesses face strong competition from other privately and publicly held worldwide and national companies, as well as regional and local firms. These businesses compete generally on the basis of the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. Competitors include independent consulting and outsourcing firms, as well as consulting and outsourcing operations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms.

Mercer's investments business faces competition from many sources, including multi-manager services offered by other investment consulting firms and financial institutions. In many cases, clients have the option of handling the services provided by Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group internally, without assistance from outside advisors.

Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic Area of Operation.

Financial information relating to the types of services provided by the Company and the geographic areas of its operations is incorporated herein by reference to Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.

Employees

As of December 31, 2012, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 54,000 people worldwide, including approximately 29,000 in risk and insurance services, 23,000 in consulting, and 1,600 individuals at the parent-company level.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The executive officers of the Company are appointed annually by the Company’s Board of Directors. Effective as of March 1, 2013, the following individuals will be executive officers of the Company:

Peter J. Beshar, age 51, is Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Before joining Marsh & McLennan Companies in November 2004, Mr. Beshar was a Litigation Partner in the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mr. Beshar joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in 1995 after serving as an Assistant Attorney General in the New York Attorney General's office and as the Special Assistant to Cyrus Vance in connection with the peace negotiations in the former Yugoslavia.

J. Michael Bischoff, age 65, is the Company's Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Bischoff has held a number of senior financial management positions with Marsh & McLennan Companies since joining the Company in 1982. In his most recent role as Vice President, Corporate Finance, Mr. Bischoff was responsible for leading and directing the Company's Corporate Development, Mergers & Acquisitions, Treasury and 

 9 

Investor Relations functions. His prior experience was with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.

John P. Drzik, age 50, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Oliver Wyman Group, a position he assumed in June 2006. From 2003 to 2006, Mr. Drzik was President of Mercer Oliver Wyman, which was formed following Marsh & McLennan Companies' acquisition of Oliver, Wyman & Company in 2003. He joined Oliver, Wyman & Company in 1984 and became President in 1995.

E. Scott Gilbert, age 57, is Senior Vice President and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. In addition to managing the Company's Risk and Compliance function, Mr. Gilbert also oversees the Company's Business Resiliency Management, Global Security and Global Technology Infrastructure groups. Prior to joining Marsh & McLennan Companies in January 2005, he had been the Chief Compliance Counsel of the General Electric Company since September 2004. Prior thereto, he was Counsel, Litigation and Legal Policy at GE. Between 1986 and 1992, when he joined GE, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Southern District of New York.

Daniel S. Glaser, age 52, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Prior to assuming this role in January 2013, Mr. Glaser served as Group President and Chief Operating Officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies from April 2011 through December 2012, with strategic and operational oversight of both the Risk and Insurance Services and the Consulting segments of the Company. Mr. Glaser rejoined Marsh in December 2007 as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh Inc. after serving in senior positions in commercial insurance and insurance brokerage in the United States, Europe, and the Middle East. He began his career at Marsh 30 years ago. Mr. Glaser is a former Chairman of BritishAmerican Business and serves on its International Advisory Board. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Insurance Information Institute, the Board of Trustees of the American Institute for Chartered Property Casualty Underwriters and the Board of Trustees of Ohio Wesleyan University.

Laurie Ledford, age 55, is the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Ms. Ledford is responsible for the firm's overall human capital and talent strategy and the delivery of human resources services to approximately 54,000 colleagues worldwide. Prior to her current role, Ms. Ledford served as Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) for Marsh Inc. Ms. Ledford joined Marsh in 2000 and was named CHRO in 2006, after having served as Senior Human Resources Director for Marsh's International Specialty Operations. Her prior experience was with Citibank and NationsBank.

Alexander S. Moczarski, age 57, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Guy Carpenter. In addition, Mr. Moczarski is Chairman of Marsh & McLennan Companies International. In this role, Mr. Moczarski oversees the Company's international strategy, as well as its expanding group of Country Corporate Officers located in regions around the world. Prior to being named Guy Carpenter CEO in April 2011, Mr. Moczarski was President and CEO of the International Division of Marsh. Since 2008, Mr. Moczarski, who has more than 30 years of experience in the insurance industry, joined Marsh in 1993 as director of planning and development for Argentina and Chile. In 2001, he became region head for Latin America and the Caribbean. In 2004, he became head of the firm's International Specialty Operations, a region that encompassed Africa, Asia, Pacific, Latin America, and the Caribbean. In 2006, Mr. Moczarski became CEO of Marsh's UK, Europe, Middle East and Africa region (EMEA). 

David A. Nadler, age 64, is Vice Chairman, Office of the CEO, of Marsh & McLennan Companies. Dr. Nadler founded the Delta Consulting Group, Inc., a consulting firm specializing in executive leadership and organizational change, in 1980. He served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of that firm until its acquisition by Mercer in 2000, when it became Mercer Delta Consulting.

Julio A. Portalatin, age 54, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Mercer. Prior to joining Mercer, Mr. Portalatin was the President and CEO of Chartis Growth Economies, and Senior Vice President, American International Group (AIG). In that role, he had responsibility for operations in Asia Pacific, South Asia, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Central Europe. Mr. Portalatin began his career with AIG in 1993 and thereafter held a number of key leadership roles, including President of the Worldwide Accident & Health Division at American International Underwriters (AIU) from 2002-2007. From 2007-2010, he served as President and CEO of Chartis Europe S.A. and Continental European Region, based in Paris, before becoming President and CEO of Chartis Emerging Markets. Prior to joining AIG / 

 10 

Chartis, Mr. Portalatin spent 12 years with Allstate Insurance Company in various executive product underwriting, distribution and marketing positions.

Peter Zaffino, age 46, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Marsh. Prior to being named Marsh CEO in April 2011, Mr. Zaffino was President and Chief Executive Officer of Guy Carpenter, a position he assumed in early 2008. Previously, he was an Executive Vice President of Guy Carpenter and had held a number of senior positions, including Head of Guy Carpenter's U.S. Treaty Operations and Head of the firm's Global Specialty Practices business. Mr. Zaffino has over 20 years of experience in the Insurance and Reinsurance industry. Prior to joining Guy Carpenter in 2001, he held several senior positions, most recently serving in an executive role with a GE Capital portfolio company.

 11 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

The Company is subject to the informational reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the Exchange Act, the Company files with the SEC annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The Company makes these reports and any amendments to these reports available free of charge through its website, www.mmc.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The public may read and copy these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, like the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.

The Company also posts on its website the following documents with respect to corporate governance:

•Guidelines for Corporate Governance;

•Code of Conduct, The Greater Good;

•Procedures for Reporting Complaints and Concerns Regarding Accounting Matters; and

•the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Compliance and Risk Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee and Directors and Governance Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors.

All of the above documents are available in printed form to any Company stockholder upon request.

Item 1A. Risk Factors