ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is designed to provide a reader of Danaher’s financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Company’s MD&A is divided into five main sections:

•Overview

•Results of Operations

•Liquidity and Capital Resources

•Critical Accounting Estimates

•New Accounting Standards

OVERVIEW

General

Please see “Item 1. Business – General” for a discussion of Danaher’s objectives and methodologies for delivering shareholder value. Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. During 2012, approximately 57% of Danaher’s sales were derived from customers outside the United States. As a diversified, global business, Danaher’s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors. Danaher’s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of its products and services, typically helps limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured, services provided and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Company’s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future.

As a result of the Company’s geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of opportunities and challenges, including rapid technological development in most of the Company’s served markets, the expansion of opportunities in emerging markets (also referred to in this report as "high-growth markets"), trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force, consolidation of the Company’s competitors and increasing regulation. The Company defines high-growth markets as developing markets of the world experiencing rapid growth in gross domestic product and infrastructure which includes Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America and Asia with the exception of Japan and Australia. The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Company’s long-term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high-growth geographies and high-growth product segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative and differentiated new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Company’s sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated environment. The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer-facing resources (particularly in high-growth markets) in order to be responsive to the Company’s customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Company’s operations. 

Business Performance and Outlook

While differences exist among the Company’s businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Company’s products and services increased in 2012 as compared to 2011 resulting in aggregate year-over-year sales growth from existing businesses. In addition, the Company’s previous investment in sales growth initiatives and the other business-specific factors discussed below contributed to year-over-year sales growth. Geographically, year-over-year sales growth rates from existing businesses during 2012 were led primarily by the high-growth markets. Sales in high-growth markets grew at a high-single digit rate in 2012 compared to 2011 and represented approximately 25% of the Company's total sales in 2012. Sales growth rates in developed markets grew at a low-single digit rate compared to 2011 and were led by North America which grew at a low-single digit rate in 2012, partially offset by modest year-over-year contraction in Western Europe and Japan. Providing no significant deterioration in general economic conditions occurs, the Company expects sales from existing businesses to continue to grow on a year-over-year basis during 2013 with sales growth returning to the Test & Measurement segment and the other segments growing at rates experienced in 2012.

32
The acquisition of Beckman Coulter, Inc. (“Beckman Coulter”) in June 2011 has provided additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s Life Sciences and Diagnostics segment by expanding the businesses’ geographic and product line breadth, including new and complementary product and service offerings in the areas of clinical diagnostics and life sciences research, and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. As Beckman Coulter continues to be integrated into the Company, the Company is also realizing significant cost synergies through the application of the Danaher Business System and the combined purchasing power of the Company and Beckman Coulter. For a discussion of the acquisition’s impact on the Company and segment results, refer to the “Results of Operations” section of this MD&A.

Restructuring Activities

In light of the continuing uncertainties in the macro-economic environment and consistent with the Company's approach of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner, in July 2012, Danaher's Board of Directors (the "Board") committed to a plan to implement further cost reductions in the Company's businesses. The plan, which was substantially completed by December 31, 2012, resulted in pre-tax charges of $123 million, the majority of which was incurred in the fourth quarter of 2012. The charges, including both employee-related termination costs as well as other termination and exit costs, are expected to result in annualized savings of approximately $90 million in 2013 compared to 2012 expense levels.

In addition, the Company incurred $179 million of costs associated with restructuring activities in 2011, including costs associated with the integration and restructuring of the Beckman Coulter business subsequent to the acquisition. Excluding Beckman Coulter, the 2011 restructuring activities resulted in savings of approximately $100 million in 2012 compared to 2011 expense levels. 

Acquisitions

During 2012, the Company acquired fourteen businesses for total consideration of $1.8 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company's five segments. The aggregate annual sales of the fourteen businesses acquired at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $666 million. 

On June 30, 2011, following the successful completion of the Company’s tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter, the Company completed the acquisition of Beckman Coulter for total cash consideration of $5.5 billion (net of cash acquired) and the assumption of $1.6 billion in indebtedness of Beckman Coulter. Beckman Coulter had revenues of $3.7 billion in 2010, and is included in the Company’s Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment.

For a full discussion of the Company’s 2011 and 2010 acquisition activity, refer to “Liquidity and Capital Resources —Investing Activities”.

Divestitures

In January 2012, the Company completed the sale of its integrated scanning system business (the Accu-Sort ("ASI") business) for a sale price of $132 million in cash. In addition, in February 2012, the Company completed the sale of its Kollmorgen Electro-Optical ("KEO") business for a sale price of $205 million in cash. These businesses were part of the Industrial Technologies segment. The businesses had combined annual revenues of $275 million in 2011. The Company recorded an aggregate after-tax gain on the sale of these businesses of $94 million or $0.13 per diluted share in its first quarter 2012 results in connection with the closing of these transactions.

In April 2011, the Company completed the divestiture of its Pacific Scientific Aerospace (“PSA”) business for a sale price of $680 million in cash. This business, which was also part of the Industrial Technologies segment had annual revenues of $377 million in 2010. The Company recorded an after-tax gain on the sale of PSA of $202 million or $0.29 per diluted share in its second quarter 2011 results in connection with the closing of the transaction.

The Company has reported the ASI, KEO and PSA businesses as discontinued operations in its consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented reflect these businesses as discontinued operations and the assets and liabilities of these businesses have been classified as held for sale for all periods presented. 

Sale of Investment in Joint Venture

During 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper Industries, plc (“Cooper”), combining certain of the Company’s hand tool businesses with Cooper’s Tools business to form a new entity called Apex Tool Group, LLC (“Apex”). In February 2013, the Company and Cooper sold Apex to an unrelated third party for approximately $1.6 billion. The Company expects to realize after-tax net proceeds of approximately $650 million and recognize an after-tax gain of approximately $138 million or $0.19 per diluted share from the sale in the first quarter of 2013. 

33
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased 13.5% compared to 2011. Sales from existing businesses contributed 2.5% growth and sales from acquired businesses contributed 13.0% growth on a year-over-year basis. The impact of currency translation decreased sales by 2.0% as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against other major currencies during 2012 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2011. 

In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refers to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) but excluding (1) sales from acquired businesses, (2) 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture, and (3) the impact of currency translation. References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to GAAP sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less the impact from the 2012 divestiture of certain Beckman Coulter product lines, the sales from which (prior to the divestiture) were included in sales from acquired businesses. The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses and 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture) and (b) the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses and 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting the non-GAAP financial measure of sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in our business and facilitating easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to our peers. The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions and related items because the nature, size and number of acquisitions can vary dramatically from period to period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult. The Company excludes the effect of the 2010 sales attributable to the businesses contributed to the Apex joint venture because the Company did not recognize sales from those businesses in any period subsequent to the formation of the joint venture. References to sales volume refer to the impact of both price and unit sales.

Operating profit margins were 17.3% for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to 16.3% in 2011. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 100 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with ongoing productivity improvement initiatives including the restructuring actions taken in 2012 and 2011, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. In addition, acquisition related charges recorded in 2011 associated with the Beckman Coulter acquisition, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control charges and fair value adjustments to acquisition related inventory and deferred revenue balances favorably impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 100 basis points. During 2012, the Company also recognized a gain relating to the resolution of contingencies with respect to a prior disposition of assets which favorably impacted operating profit margin comparisons by 5 basis points. The dilutive effect of acquisitions adversely impacted operating profit margin comparisons by 105 basis points and partially offset these positive factors. 

Operating profit margins were 16.3% for each of the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 160 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and ongoing productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquisitions (net of the favorable impact to operating profit margin of contributing certain businesses to the Apex joint venture in July 2010) adversely impacted operating margin comparisons by 110 basis points. In addition, acquisition related charges associated with the Beckman Coulter acquisition, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control charges and fair value adjustments to acquisition related inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010) adversely impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 50 basis points.

The Company deems acquisition-related transaction costs incurred in a given period to be significant (generally relating to the Company’s larger acquisitions) if it determines that such costs exceed the range of acquisition-related transaction costs typical for the Company in a given period.

34
Business Segments

The following table summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

TEST & MEASUREMENT

The Company’s Test & Measurement segment is a leading global provider of electronic measurement instruments and monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications and enterprise networks and related services. The segment’s products are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Customers for these products and services include manufacturers of electronic instruments; service, installation and maintenance professionals; manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment; and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communications networks and services. Also included in the Test & Measurement segment are the Company’s mobile tool and wheel service businesses.

Test & Measurement Selected Financial Data ($ in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2012 COMPARED TO 2011 

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2012 as compared to 2011 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales in the segment's instrument businesses declined at a high-single digit rate during 2012 as compared to 2011, as lower demand for most product categories more than offset modest sales increases of service solutions. Instrument demand was weak in all major geographies although the North American market showed improvement in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to the results reported during the first nine months of 2012. Europe and Japan continued to remain weak in the fourth quarter of 

35
2012. 

Sales in the segment's communications businesses grew at a high-single digit rate during 2012 compared to 2011 with strong growth in North America and Western Europe in the first six months of 2012 moderating in the second half of 2012 due primarily to project timing and difficult prior year comparisons. Demand for network management solutions and, to a lesser extent, core network enterprise solutions drove the 2012 growth. 

Operating profit margins declined 150 basis points during 2012 as compared to 2011. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons were adversely impacted by 120 basis points as lower instrument sales volumes and incremental year-over-year costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments more than offset the favorable impacts of increased sales volumes of higher operating profit margin communication business products and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with ongoing productivity improvement initiatives, including the restructuring actions taken in 2012 and 2011. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 30 basis points.

2011 COMPARED TO 2010 

Year-over-year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales growth during 2011.

During 2011, sales in the segment’s instrument businesses grew on a year-over-year basis due to increased demand for oscilloscopes and service and installation tools, partially offset by year-over-year declines in sales attributable to products serving the video end markets. Instrument sales grew in all major geographies during the year led by Asia and other high-growth markets. Instrument sales grew primarily during the first three quarters of 2011 as fourth quarter 2011 sales were essentially flat compared to 2010. 

Sales in the segment’s communications businesses also grew during 2011 on a year-over-year basis, primarily in North America, as a result of strong demand for both network management solutions and core network enterprise solutions. Global demand for network security and analysis solutions was also robust in 2011.

Operating profit margins increased 200 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 220 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and ongoing productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 20 basis points.

ENVIRONMENTAL

The Company’s Environmental segment provides products that help protect customers’ water supply and air quality and serves two primary markets: water quality and retail/commercial petroleum. Danaher’s water quality business is a global leader in water quality analysis and treatment, providing instrumentation and disinfection systems to help analyze and manage the quality of ultra pure water, potable water, wastewater, groundwater and ocean water in residential, commercial, industrial and natural resource applications. Danaher’s retail/commercial petroleum business is a leading worldwide provider of products and services for the retail/commercial petroleum market including vapor recovery equipment and leak detection systems.

Environmental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36
Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2012 COMPARED TO 2011 

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2012 compared with 2011 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s water quality businesses grew at a low-single digit rate during 2012 compared to 2011. Sales growth was driven by increased demand for the businesses' laboratory and process instruments, consumables and related service primarily in the high-growth markets (other than China) and the North American industrial market. This growth was partially moderated by flat year-over-year demand in China and Western Europe. Sales in the business' chemical treatment solutions product line grew at a low-double digit rate on a year-over-year basis due primarily to the addition of new customers in the U.S. market and to a lesser extent continued international expansion. Sales in the business' ultraviolet water disinfection product line declined during the year due primarily to lower 2012 demand from municipal end markets. 

Sales from existing businesses in the segment's retail petroleum equipment businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2012 compared to 2011. Increased demand for the business' dispensing equipment and associated services in North America were partially offset by contraction in Western Europe as demand for retail and payment systems declined from 2011's level. Demand for most major product categories was strong in high-growth markets, especially Latin America, Russia and the Middle East. 

Operating profit margins increased 10 basis points during 2012 as compared to 2011. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 70 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with ongoing productivity improvement initiatives, including the restructuring actions taken in 2012 and 2011, offsetting incremental year-over-year costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. The dilutive effect of acquisitions adversely impacted year-over-year operating margin comparisons by 60 basis points.

2011 COMPARED TO 2010

Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s water quality businesses grew at a high-single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010. Strong demand during the first half of 2011 for the businesses’ laboratory and process instrumentation product lines in the municipal and industrial markets moderated slightly during the second half of 2011. While demand in the China municipal market increased on a year-over-year basis during 2011, the rate of revenue growth for the year declined compared to the 2010 growth rate. Sales in the business’ ultraviolet water treatment product line grew at a low-double digit rate on a year-over-year basis as municipal markets returned to growth in the second half of the year, and in particular during the fourth quarter, after having declined in the first half of 2011. Sales in the business’ chemical treatment solutions product line also grew at a low-double digit rate on a year-over-year basis primarily due to the addition of new customers in the U.S. market and to a lesser extent to continued international expansion.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s retail/commercial petroleum equipment businesses declined at a low-single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010. The year-over-year sales decline during the period is primarily attributable to 2010 performance dynamics. The business generated strong sales of payment and point-of-sale retail solutions product offerings in 2010, particularly the first half of 2010, driven by deadlines for compliance with enhanced industry security standards. During 2011, increased demand for the business’ automatic tank gauge products and dispensing equipment in all major geographies resulted in year-over-year sales growth that partially offset the unfavorable impact of the difficult prior year comparison.

Operating profit margins increased 60 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 70 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and continued productivity improvements net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments. 

37
The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 10 basis points.

LIFE SCIENCES & DIAGNOSTICS

The Company’s diagnostics businesses offer a broad range of analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physician’s offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. The Company’s life sciences businesses offer a broad range of research and clinical tools that scientists use to study cells and cell components to gain a better understanding of complex biological processes. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, medical schools and research institutions use these tools to study the causes of disease, identify new therapies and test new drugs and vaccines.

Life Sciences & Diagnostics Selected Financial Data ($ in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2012 COMPARED TO 2011 

Year-over-year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales during 2012.

The significant growth related to acquisitions for 2012 was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter in June 2011. Sales associated with acquisitions are presented net of the impact of the 2012 divestiture of certain Beckman Coulter product lines, the sales from which (prior to the divestiture) were included in sales from acquired businesses. Given the insignificance of these product line sales to the segment's results of operations, prior year information was not restated to reflect these divestitures as discontinued operations.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment's diagnostics business grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2012 as compared to 2011 due to increased demand in the clinical, acute care and pathology diagnostic businesses. Strong sales of consumables and automation hardware in the clinical diagnostic business in high-growth markets, especially China, more than offset weaker year-over-year sales performance in North America and Europe. In the acute care diagnostic business, sales grew due to continued strong global consumable sales related to the business' installed base of instrumentation as well as robust demand for compact blood gas analyzers. Increased demand for the business' cardiac care instruments, particularly in China, also contributed to year-over-year sales growth. Increased demand, primarily in North America and high-growth markets, for advanced staining consumables, and to a lesser extent histology systems, drove the majority of year-over-year sales growth in the pathology diagnostics business. 

Sales from existing businesses in the segment's life sciences businesses grew at a low-single digit rate during 2012 as compared to 2011. Sales of the business' broad range of mass spectrometers grew on a year-over-year basis as sales growth in the applied and clinical research markets was partially offset by sales declines in the pharmaceutical and academic research markets. Sales growth in the mass spectrometry business was strong in China and other high-growth markets. Sales of the business' 

38
microscopy products also grew for the year in most major geographic markets due to strong demand for the business' recently introduced confocal product offering. 

Operating profit margins increased 460 basis points during 2012 as compared to 2011. Acquisition related charges associated with the 2011 Beckman Coulter acquisition, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control charges and fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue balances favorably impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 365 basis points. Higher sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with ongoing productivity improvement initiatives, including the restructuring actions taken in 2012 and 2011, net of the impact of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments, favorably impacted year-over-year comparisons by 200 basis points. The dilutive effect of acquisitions adversely impacted segment operating profit margins by 105 basis points.

Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales increased during 2012 primarily as a result of the inclusion of twelve months of Beckman Coulter's results in 2012 as compared to six months of Beckman Coulter's results in 2011. Depreciation and amortization expense in the segment in future periods is expected to be in line with 2012 levels reflecting the continued impact of Beckman Coulter. For a discussion of the impact of Beckman Coulter's business model on the Company's depreciation and amortization costs, please see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Operating Activities.”

2011 COMPARED TO 2010 

Price increases in the segment contributed 0.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

The significant growth related to acquisitions was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter in June 2011 which significantly expanded the segment’s product and service offerings, as further described below.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s acute care diagnostics business grew at a high-single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily due to continued strong consumable sales related to the business’ installed base of acute care diagnostic instrumentation and new instrument placements, primarily in Europe, China and other Asian markets. Demand for the business’ compact blood gas analyzer also remained strong, particularly in high-growth markets. Increased European and high-growth market demand for the business’ cardiac care instruments also contributed to year-over-year sales growth. Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s pathology diagnostics business also grew at a high-single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 as a result of increased demand for advanced staining instruments and consumables, as well as higher sales of core histology systems and consumables, primarily in North America and high-growth markets, and to a lesser extent, Europe. The acquisition of Beckman Coulter has significantly expanded the segment’s product portfolio in the area of clinical diagnostics through the addition of new and complementary product and service offerings.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s microscopy businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 as a result of strong demand for confocal and compound instrumentation serving the life sciences research and industrial markets, particularly in China and high-growth markets, and to a lesser extent, Europe. A difficult prior year comparison resulting from first quarter 2010 sales associated with Japanese economic stimulus funding partially reduced the sales growth for 2011. Strong demand for the business’ broad range of mass spectrometers serving both the academic and proteomic research markets as well as the applied markets resulted in a low-double digit growth rate from sales from existing businesses in the segment’s mass spectrometry business during 2011 as compared to 2010. Sales from existing businesses in the mass spectrometry business grew in all major geographies during 2011 led by strong performance in the Asia Pacific region and North America and to a lesser extent Europe. The acquisition of Beckman Coulter has also expanded the segment’s product portfolio in the area of life sciences research through the addition of new and complementary product and service offerings.

Operating profit margins decreased 120 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. The dilutive effect of acquisitions, primarily related to costs associated with Beckman Coulter’s restructuring and integration activities, adversely impacted segment operating profit margins by 295 basis points. Acquisition related charges associated with the Beckman Coulter acquisition, including transaction costs deemed significant, change in control charges and fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue balances (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010) also adversely impacted operating profit margins by 95 basis points. Higher sales volumes and ongoing productivity improvements, net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments, favorably impacted year-over-year comparisons by 270 basis points. 

39
Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales increased during 2011 primarily as a result of the increase in amortization expense associated with the intangible assets acquired in connection with the Beckman Coulter acquisition. In addition, as a majority of the Beckman Coulter customers enter into operating-type lease arrangements for the use of the business’ instrumentation, depreciation expense increased on a year-over-year basis. 

DENTAL

The Company’s Dental segment is a leading worldwide provider of a broad range of equipment, consumables and services for the dental market, focused on driving technological innovations that help dental professionals improve clinical outcomes and enhance productivity.

Dental Selected Financial Data ($ in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2012 COMPARED TO 2011 

Year-over-year price increases in the segment had a negligible impact on sales during 2012. 

Sales from existing businesses in the segment's dental consumables businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2012 as compared to 2011, primarily as a result of increased sales of general dentistry consumables and orthodontic products. Sales of dental consumables grew in all major geographies. Sales from existing businesses in the segment's dental equipment business grew at a low-single digit rate on a year-over-year basis as a result of increased demand for treatment units and associated equipment, primarily in high-growth markets, as well as higher year-over-year sales of imaging products. During 2012, sales increased in all major product categories on a year-over-year basis as increased demand in North America and high-growth markets more than offset lower demand in Europe. 

Operating profit margins increased 280 basis points during 2012 as compared to 2011. Higher operating profit margins from additional sales volume in addition to incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with ongoing productivity improvement initiatives including the restructuring actions taken in 2012 and 2011, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments, increased operating profit margins by 270 basis points on a year-over-year basis. In addition, net higher overall operating profit margins of acquired businesses favorably impacted year-over-year comparisons by 10 basis points.

2011 COMPARED TO 2010 

Price increases throughout the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2011 as compared to 2010 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

40
Sales from existing businesses in the dental consumables businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate in 2011 driven primarily by increased demand for general dentistry consumables and orthodontic products and, to a lesser extent, infection control products. Sales in the dental consumables business grew in all major geographies. Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s dental equipment business grew on a year-over-year basis at a mid-single digit rate due to strong imaging and instrument product demand. Increased sales of imaging products were led by North America, and to lesser extent, high-growth markets, while instrument sales growth was driven largely by North America and Europe.

Operating profit margins increased 60 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Higher sales volumes and ongoing productivity improvements, including cost reduction actions in the dental equipment businesses, net of the impact of costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments increased operating profit margin by 95 basis points on a year-over-year basis. The dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 35 basis points.

INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES

The Company’s Industrial Technologies segment designs and manufactures components and systems that are typically incorporated by original equipment manufacturers and system integrators for sale into a diverse set of applications and end-markets. The businesses in this segment also provide service and support, including helping customers with integration and installation and providing services to ensure performance and up-time. The Industrial Technologies segment consists of two strategic lines of business, product identification and motion, as well as the sensors and controls, energetic materials and engine retarder businesses. The Company sold its ASI business in January 2012, its KEO business in February 2012 and its PSA business in April 2011. These businesses were previously reported as part of the Industrial Technologies segment. The results of these discontinued operations are excluded from all periods presented in the financial information provided in the tables below.

Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data ($ in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Components of Sales Growth

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

2012 COMPARED TO 2011 

Price increases throughout the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2012 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment's product identification businesses grew at a mid-single digit rate during 2012 as compared to 2011, due primarily to continued demand for marking and coding equipment and related consumables, with strong growth experienced in both Europe and China. Increased year-over-year demand for the business' integrated packaging solutions product lines also contributed to the existing business' sales growth in the second half of 2012, with growth in most major geographies and particular strength in North America. The Company's acquisition of X-Rite, Incorporated, a global 

41
leader in color measurement technology, in the second quarter of 2012 expands the product identification business into a new, adjacent market and has broadened the sales and earnings growth opportunities for the business by expanding the business' product line range as well as through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment's motion businesses declined at a mid-single digit rate during 2012 as compared to 2011 due to continued soft demand in the majority of end markets served, particularly technology and factory automation related end markets. Both the industrial automation and engineered solutions product lines experienced year-over-year sales declines. The businesses saw improved growth in the fourth quarter of 2012 in part due to easier year-over-year comparisons.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment's other businesses collectively grew at a low-single digit rate during 2012 as compared to 2011. Sales in the segment's energetic materials business increased on a year-over-year basis, partially offset by lower demand in the segment's sensors and controls and engine retarder businesses. 

Operating profit margins declined 30 basis points during 2012 compared to 2011. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 105 basis points. Higher sales volumes and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with continuing productivity improvement initiatives, including the restructuring actions taken in 2012 and 2011, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various sales, marketing and product development growth investments, increased operating profit margins by 75 basis points on a year-over-year basis.

2011 COMPARED TO 2010 

Price increases throughout the segment contributed 2.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2011 and are reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s product identification businesses grew at a high-single digit rate on a year-over-year basis during 2011, primarily due to continued strong demand for core marking and coding equipment. Consumable sales associated with the installed base of marking and coding equipment also contributed to year-over-year growth. Sales grew in all major geographies. The 2011 acquisition of EskoArtwork, a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging and design and production market, provides additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the segment by expanding the businesses’ product line range and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses.

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s motion businesses grew at a high-single digit rate during 2011. Sales growth rates declined in the second half of 2011 compared to growth rates in the first half of 2011, in part due to easier prior year comparisons in the first half of 2011 as well as the impact of slowing demand on a global basis in the second half of 2011, primarily in the technology-related and solar end markets. Year-over-year sales increases in engineered solutions and linear and mechanical motion products during the second half of 2011 more than offset sales declines in industrial automation that occurred primarily in the fourth quarter 2011. Sales grew in all major geographies. 

Sales from existing businesses in the segment’s other businesses grew collectively at a mid-teens rate during 2011 as compared to 2010 due to generally higher demand in the majority of end-markets served.

Operating profit margins increased 80 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons benefited 135 basis points from the favorable impact of higher sales volumes and ongoing productivity improvements. The net dilutive effect of acquired businesses adversely impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons by 55 basis points.

COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Gross profit margins increased 80 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2012 compared to 2011. Year-over-year gross profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by 70 basis points as a result of acquisition related charges recorded in 2011 associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances in connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter in June 2011. In addition, year-over-year gross profit margin comparisons also benefited from 

42
higher year-over-year sales volumes, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with 2011 restructuring activities (net of 2012 restructuring spending) and ongoing productivity improvements. The impact of a full twelve months of Beckman Coulter results in 2012 (compared to only six months of Beckman Coulter results in 2011), partially offset these positive factors as the Beckman Coulter business has lower gross profit margins on average than the Company's existing businesses. 

Gross profit margins decreased 20 basis points during 2011 as compared to 2010. The combination of the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, which has lower gross profit margins on average than the Company’s existing businesses, and 35 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2011 compared to 2010 adversely impacted year-over-year gross profit margin comparisons. In addition, acquisition related charges associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventory and deferred revenue balances in connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter (net of comparable acquisition related charges in 2010 relating primarily to the AB Sciex, Molecular Devices and certain other acquisitions) adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons by 45 basis points. Higher year-over-year sales volumes and ongoing productivity improvements partially offset these adverse impacts. The gross profit margin comparison also reflects the benefit of 65 basis points from the contribution to the Apex joint venture at the beginning of the third quarter 2010 of certain of the Company’s hand tools businesses, which had lower average gross profit margins than the remainder of the Company.

In 2010, the U.S. government passed health care reform legislation which, among other provisions, imposes a 2.3% excise tax on the sale or importation of certain medical devices. These provisions apply to various products in the Company's Life Sciences and Diagnostics and Dental segments and become effective in 2013. The excise tax is expected to increase the Company's cost of sales in 2013 by approximately $35 million compared to 2012.

OPERATING EXPENSES

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales decreased 20 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2012 compared to 2011. Increased leverage of the Company's cost base resulting from higher sales and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with 2011 restructuring activities (net of 2012 restructuring activities) were partially offset by incremental year-over-year investments in the Company's sales and marketing growth investments. Year-over-year comparisons were also favorably impacted by a mark to market gain on a currency swap arrangement in 2012 (refer to “Financial Instruments and Risk Management—Currency Exchange Rate Risk”). In addition, change in control payments to Beckman Coulter employees in connection with the closing of the Beckman Coulter acquisition in June 2011, as well as associated restructuring and integration charges, favorably impacted the year-over-year comparison.

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales decreased 10 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2011 as compared to 2010. Increased leverage of the Company’s cost base resulting from higher sales volumes during 2011 was partially offset by 60 basis points of incremental restructuring costs incurred during 2011 compared to 2010 and ongoing investments in the Company’s sales growth initiatives. In addition, change in control payments to Beckman Coulter employees in connection with the closing of the Beckman Coulter acquisition adversely impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales during 2011.

Research and development expenses consist principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs. Research and development expenses have remained relatively consistent as a percentage of sales over the last three years. The increase in these expenses on a year-over-year basis is primarily attributable to the full year impact of research and development expenditures associated with recently acquired businesses, primarily Beckman Coulter, as well as incremental year-over-year investments in the Company's new product development initiatives.

43
EARNINGS FROM UNCONSOLIDATED JOINT VENTURE

In July 2010 the Company closed on the formation of the Apex joint venture. As of the closing of the transaction, the Company deconsolidated its contributed businesses and commenced accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. The equity in the earnings of Apex, reflecting the Company’s 50% ownership position subsequent to the formation, is reflected in the earnings from unconsolidated joint venture caption in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. 

The impact on the Company’s results of operations from (1) the contributed business prior to the formation of Apex, and (2) the Company’s equity in the earnings of Apex subsequent to the formation of Apex, is reflected in the table below ($ in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture increased $3 million for 2012 as compared to 2011, primarily due to the favorable impact of higher production volumes and Apex's actions to improve overall cost productivity. Earnings from unconsolidated joint venture increased $44 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 as 2011 reflected a full year of earnings as compared to only six months of earnings in 2010 following the closing of the formation of the joint venture in July 2010.

INTEREST COSTS

For a description of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness, refer to “–Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financing Activities and Indebtedness” below.

Interest expense of $158 million for 2012 was approximately $16 million higher than in 2011. The increase in interest expense in 2012 results primarily from the additional debt incurred during the second quarter of 2011 in connection with the Beckman Coulter acquisition. Interest expense of $142 million in 2011 was approximately $25 million higher than 2010 interest expense of $117 million. The increase in interest expense during 2011 also results primarily from the additional debt incurred in connection with the Beckman Coulter acquisition. The Company's average commercial paper borrowings were also higher in 2011 as compared to 2010, in large part due to borrowings used to partially fund the acquisition of Beckman Coulter.

Interest income of $3 million, $5 million and $6 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, was essentially flat on a year-over-year basis.

INCOME TAXES

General

Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Company’s financial statements. The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur.

The Company’s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions and changes in tax laws. For a description of the tax treatment of earnings held outside the United States, refer to “—Cash and Cash Requirements” below.

The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for contingent tax liabilities. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions and the expiration of statutes of limitations, reserves are adjusted as necessary. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors”.

44
Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate

The Company’s effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was 23.6%, 20.9% and 22.9%, respectively.

The Company’s effective tax rate for each of 2012, 2011 and 2010 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due principally to the Company’s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate. 

The effective tax rate of 23.6% in 2012 is also lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolution of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions and the lapse of certain statutes of limitations, in addition to changes in estimates related to reserves associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 30 basis points in 2012.

The effective tax rate of 20.9% in 2011 is also lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolutions of certain international and domestic uncertain tax positions as a result of a tax ruling, court decision, and the lapse of certain tax statutes of limitations, in addition to changes in estimates related to reserves associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 240 basis points in 2011.

The Company’s 2010 effective tax rate of 22.9% is also lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate due to recognition of tax benefits associated with favorable resolution of certain international and domestic tax positions and the lapse of certain tax statutes of limitations. These matters have been treated as discrete items in the periods they occurred and reduced the provision for income taxes by approximately 60 basis points in 2010.

On January 2, 2013, the American Tax Relief Act of 2012 (the "Act") was signed into law which included tax relief for businesses by reinstating retroactively to January 1, 2012, certain tax benefits and credits that had expired. Included in the reinstatement were the U.S. federal research and development tax credit and the controlled foreign corporation look-through provision, which would have collectively lowered the Company's effective tax rate by approximately 75 basis points for 2012. However, as the Act was enacted in 2013, the retroactive tax benefit was not included in the 2012 effective tax rate and will be treated as a discrete benefit during the first quarter of 2013. 

The effective tax rate for 2013 is expected to be approximately 24%, excluding the discrete benefit from the Act noted above. The anticipated increase from the 2012 rate is primarily attributable to changes in international tax legislation, partially offset by the benefit on 2013's effective tax rate from the reinstatement of the tax benefits under the Act noted above.

INFLATION

The effect of inflation on the Company’s revenues and net earnings was not significant in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 or 2010.

45
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk, equity prices and commodity prices, each of which could impact its financial statements. The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Company’s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating profit as a whole.

Interest Rate Risk

The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. A change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt but not the Company’s earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2012, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt is primarily derived from its underlying common stock) by approximately $137 million. However, since the Company currently has no plans to repurchase its outstanding fixed-rate instruments before their maturity, the impact of market interest rate fluctuations on the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt does not affect the Company’s results of operations or stockholders’ equity.

As of December 31, 2012, the Company’s variable-rate debt obligations consisted primarily of U.S. dollar and Euro denominated commercial paper borrowings and to a lesser extent, the Company's $300 million floating rate senior notes due 2013. As a result, the Company’s primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term U.S. dollar and Euro interest rates. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2012. As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company anticipates issuing additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings. In 2012, a 150% increase in average market interest rates on the Company’s commercial paper borrowings would have increased the Company’s interest expense by approximately $2 million. A 150% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Company’s actual commercial paper interest rates fluctuated near that amount during 2012. In 2012, a 50% increase in average market interest rates on the Company’s $300 million floating rate senior notes due 2013 would have increased the Company’s interest expense by approximately $1 million. A 50% hypothetical fluctuation is used as the Company’s actual coupon interest rates on such debt fluctuated near that amount during 2012.

Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The Company faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. The Eurobond Notes described below provide a natural hedge to a portion of the Company’s European net asset position. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Company’s net investment in international subsidiaries, net of the translation effect of the Company’s Eurobond Notes, is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income component of stockholders’ equity. A 10% depreciation in major currencies, relative to the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2012 (net of the translation effect of the Company’s Eurobond Notes) would have resulted in a reduction of stockholders’ equity of approximately $706 million.

The Company also faces exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its costs are incurred, and sales are generated in foreign currencies. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively.

Currency exchange rates negatively impacted 2012 sales by 2.0% on a year-over-year basis as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against other major currencies during 2012 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2011. The U.S. dollar's strength against other major currencies throughout the majority of 2012 more than offset the positive impact on sales from the slight weakening of the U.S. dollar prior to the end of the fourth quarter 2012.

If the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2012 were to prevail throughout 2013, currency exchange rates would positively impact 2013 sales by approximately 0.5% relative to the Company’s performance in 2012. Additional weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would further positively impact the Company’s sales and results of operations. 

46
Any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would adversely impact the Company’s sales and results of operations on an overall basis.

The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

In connection with a 2011 acquisition, the Company acquired a currency swap agreement that requires the Company to purchase approximately 184 million Japanese Yen (JPY/¥) at a rate of $1/¥102.25 on a monthly basis through June 1, 2018. As of December 31, 2012, the aggregate Japanese Yen purchase commitment was approximately ¥11.9 billion (approximately $138 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2012). The currency swap does not qualify for hedge accounting, and as a result changes in the fair value of the currency swap are reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company recorded pre-tax income of approximately $22 million and a pre-tax charge of approximately $8 million, respectively, related to changes in the fair value of this currency swap. 

Credit Risk

The Company is exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers and derivatives. The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds.

In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Company’s customers. The Company’s businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers’ financial conditions as appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when appropriate.

The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and with the exception of the Yen swap noted above such transactions are generally insignificant to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. These transactions are entered into only with high-quality financial institutions and exposure at any one institution is limited.

Equity Price Risk

The Company’s available-for-sale investment portfolio includes publicly traded equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price. Changes in equity prices would result in changes in the fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale investments due to the difference between the current market price and the market price at the date of purchase or issuance of the equity securities. A 10% decline in the value of these equity securities as of December 31, 2012 would have reduced the fair value of the Company’s available-for-sale investment portfolio by approximately $33 million.

Commodity Price Risk

For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

47
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Management assesses the Company’s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities. The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions, paying interest and servicing debt and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis. 

Following is an overview of the Company's cash flows and liquidity for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: 

Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, restructuring activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows.

48
Operating cash flows from continuing operations were $3.5 billion for 2012, an increase of $770 million, or 28% as compared to 2011. The year-over-year change in operating cash flows from 2011 to 2012 was primarily attributable to the following factors:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating cash flows from continuing operations were $2.7 billion for 2011, an increase of $713 million, or 35% as compared to 2010. The increase in operating cash flows was primarily attributable to the increase in earnings in 2011 as compared to 2010. In addition, trade accounts receivable, inventories and accounts payable in the aggregate contributed $63 million of operating cash flows during 2011 as compared to using $195 million in operating cash flows during 2010. 

In connection with the Company’s restructuring activities, the Company records appropriate accruals for the costs of closing facilities, severing personnel and, in connection with acquisitions, integrating the acquired businesses into existing Company operations. Cash flows from operating activities are reduced by the amounts expended against the various accruals established in connection with these activities. During 2012, the Company paid $140 million related to its 2012 and 2011 restructuring activities. During 2011, the Company paid approximately $49 million related to its 2011 restructuring activities. The Company anticipates cash payments of approximately $94 million during 2013 related to its 2012 restructuring activities. Please refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about these expenditures.

Investing Activities

Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets.

Net cash used in investing activities was $1.9 billion during 2012 compared to $5.8 billion of net cash used in 2011 and $2.3 billion of net cash used in 2010.

Acquisitions and Divestitures

2012 Acquisitions and Divestitures

For a discussion of the Company’s 2012 acquisitions and divestitures and the pending divestiture of the Company's ownership interest in Apex, refer to “—Overview.”

49
2011 Acquisitions and Divestitures

On June 30, 2011, following the successful completion of the Company’s tender offer for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter, the Company completed the acquisition of Beckman Coulter by merging one of its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries with and into Beckman Coulter such that Beckman Coulter became an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Beckman Coulter develops, manufactures and markets products that simplify and automate complex biomedical testing. Beckman Coulter’s diagnostic systems are found in hospitals and other clinical settings around the world and produce information used by physicians to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. Scientists use its life science research instruments to study complex biological problems including causes of disease and potential new therapies or drugs. Beckman Coulter had revenues of $3.7 billion in 2010, and is included in the Company’s Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment from the acquisition date. The Company recorded an aggregate of $3.7 billion of goodwill related to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. The Company obtained control of Beckman Coulter on June 24, 2011 and, as a result, the earnings of Beckman Coulter are reflected in the Company’s results from June 25, 2011 forward.

The Company paid $5.5 billion in cash (net of $450 million of cash acquired) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Beckman Coulter and assumed $1.6 billion of indebtedness in connection with the acquisition. The Company financed the acquisition of Beckman Coulter using (1) $2.3 billion of available cash, (2) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters’ discount, of $966 million from the underwritten public offering of the Company’s common stock on June 21, 2011, (3) net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters’ discount, of $1.8 billion from the underwritten public offering of senior unsecured notes on June 23, 2011, and (4) net proceeds from the sale of additional commercial paper under the Company’s U.S. commercial paper program prior to the closing of the acquisition.

In addition to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter, during 2011, the Company completed the acquisition of thirteen other businesses (including the acquisition of EskoArtwork, a leading full service solutions provider for the digital packaging design and production market), for total consideration of $669 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The additional businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company's five segments. The aggregate annual sales of the businesses acquired at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $325 million. 

For a discussion of the Company's April 2011 divestiture of the PSA business, please see “—Overview.” 

2010 Acquisitions and Apex Joint Venture

On January 30, 2010, the Company completed the acquisition of the Analytical Technologies division of MDS Inc., which included a 50% ownership position in the AB Sciex joint venture and a 100% ownership position in Molecular Devices. In a separate but related transaction, the Company simultaneously completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% ownership position in AB Sciex from Life Technologies Corporation. The aggregate purchase price for the combined transactions was $1.0 billion, including debt assumed and net of cash acquired. The aggregate sales of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices in their last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition were $650 million and these businesses now operate within the Company’s Life Sciences & Diagnostics segment. The acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices significantly expanded the Company’s position in the life sciences and diagnostics business and in particular established a position in the mass spectrometry market.

In addition to the acquisitions of AB Sciex and Molecular Devices, the Company acquired seventeen businesses during 2010 for aggregate consideration of approximately $1.1 billion in cash, net of cash acquired. The additional businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company's five segments. The aggregate annual sales of these seventeen acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $440 million.

As discussed above, on July 4, 2010, the Company entered into a joint venture with Cooper, combining certain of the Company’s hand tools businesses with Cooper’s Tools business to form a new entity called Apex. The 2010 sales, on a combined basis, of the two tools businesses contributed to Apex were approximately $1.2 billion. During the period that Cooper and the Company owned Apex, each of Cooper and the Company owned a 50% interest in Apex and had an equal number of representatives on Apex’s Board of Directors. Upon the closing of the joint venture formation, Apex simultaneously obtained a credit facility and term debt financing and used $45 million of the term debt financing to purchase from the Company certain assets of the Company’s hand tools business. In addition to the cash received for the purchase of these assets, the Company recorded a receivable from Apex of $45 million upon closing. The Company has collected all of this receivable as of December 31, 2012. As of the closing of the joint venture formation, the Company deconsolidated the financial results of its contributed businesses and began accounting for its investment in the joint venture based on the equity method of accounting. In accordance with accounting standards applicable to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries, the Company 

50
recognized a $291 million gain ($232 million or $0.34 per diluted share on an after-tax basis) during the third quarter 2011 associated with the transaction reflecting the difference between the book value of the contributed business that was deconsolidated and the fair value of the consideration received in exchange, including the 50% interest in Apex and the cash and receivables received from Apex in connection with the transaction. As further discussed above, in February 2013, the Company and Cooper sold Apex to an unrelated third party for approximately $1.6 billion. 

Capital Expenditures

Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving information technology systems. In addition, capital expenditures are made for the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating-type lease arrangements that certain of the Company’s businesses enter into with customers. Capital expenditures totaled $458 million in 2012, $334 million in 2011 and $191 million in 2010. The increase in capital spending in 2011 and 2012 is primarily due to the acquisition of Beckman Coulter in June 2011 and the associated capitalization of instruments subject to operating-type leases through customer arrangements. In 2013, the Company expects capital spending to approximate $500 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. 

Financing Activities and Indebtedness

Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and debt, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, payments of principal on indebtedness, payments for repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities used cash of $388 million during 2012 compared to $2.1 billion of cash provided during 2011. The year-over-year change was primarily due to the Company's repurchase of shares of its common stock at a cost of $648 million in 2012, whereas in 2011 the Company received $1.8 billion from the issuance of the 2011 Financing Notes (as defined below).

Total debt was $5.3 billion as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. The Company’s debt as of December 31, 2012 was as follows:

•$1.2 billion of outstanding U.S. dollar and Euro denominated commercial paper;

•$660 million (€500 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.5% guaranteed Eurobond Notes due 2013 (the “Eurobond Notes”);

•$300 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior notes due 2013 (the “2013 Notes”);

•$400 million aggregate principal amount of 1.3% senior notes due 2014 (the “2014 Notes”);

•$500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.3% senior notes due 2016 (the “2016 Notes”);

•$500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”);

•$750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.4% senior notes due 2019 (the “2019 Notes”);

•$600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.9% senior notes due 2021 (the “2021 Notes” and together with the 2013 Notes, 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes, the “2011 Financing Notes”);

•$281 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (“LYONs”); and

•$127 million of other borrowings.

The 2011 Financing Notes, the Eurobond Notes, the 2018 Notes and the 2019 Notes are collectively referred to as the “Notes”.

Commercial Paper Programs and Credit Facility

The Company satisfies any short-term liquidity needs that are not met through operating cash flow and available cash primarily through issuances of commercial paper under its U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs. Under these programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes. Interest expense on the notes is paid at maturity and is generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. During 2012, as commercial paper balances matured the Company either paid such balances from available cash or refinanced such balances by issuing new commercial paper. The Company issued commercial paper under the Euro commercial paper program during 2012 and as of December 31, 2012, $66 million (€50 million) of commercial paper was outstanding under this program. There was no commercial paper outstanding under the Euro program as of December 31, 2011 or at any other time during 2011. 

51
As of December 31, 2012, borrowings outstanding under the Company’s U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs had a weighted average annual interest rate of 0.2% and a weighted average remaining maturity of approximately seven days. Commercial paper balances during the year carried interest at annual rates ranging between 0.1% and 0.7% and original maturities between one and thirty-six days. The Company classified its borrowings outstanding under the commercial paper programs as of December 31, 2012, as well as its 2013 Notes and its Eurobond Notes, as long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company had the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the Credit Facility referenced below, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date.

Credit support for the commercial paper program is provided by a $2.5 billion unsecured multi-year revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expires on July 15, 2016 (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Under the Credit Facility, borrowings (other than bid loans) bear interest at a rate equal to (at the Company’s option) either (1) a LIBOR-based rate plus a margin that varies according to the Company’s long-term debt credit rating (the “Eurodollar Rate”), or (2) the highest of (a) the Federal funds rate plus 1/2 of 1%, (b) the prime rate and (c) the Eurodollar Rate plus 1%, plus in each case a margin that varies according to the Company’s long-term debt credit rating. In addition to certain initial fees the Company paid at inception of the Credit Facility, the Company is obligated to pay an annual commitment fee that varies according to its long-term debt credit rating. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the facility) of 0.65 to 1.00 or less, and also contains customary representations, warranties, conditions precedent, events of default, indemnities and affirmative and negative covenants. As of December 31, 2012, no borrowings were outstanding under the Credit Facility and the Company was in compliance with all covenants under the facility. The non-performance by any member of the Credit Facility syndicate would reduce the maximum capacity of the Credit Facility by such member's commitment amount. In addition to the Credit Facility, the Company has entered into reimbursement agreements with various commercial banks to support the issuance of letters of credit.

The availability of the Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the Company’s commercial paper program. The Company expects to limit any borrowings under the Credit Facility to amounts that would leave sufficient credit available under the facility to allow the Company to borrow, if needed, to repay all of the outstanding commercial paper as it matures.

The Company’s ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of the Company’s credit rating and market conditions. Any downgrade in the Company’s credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Company’s commercial paper program and the Credit Facility, and could limit or preclude the Company’s ability to issue commercial paper. If the Company’s access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a downgrade, change in market conditions or otherwise, the Company would expect to rely on a combination of available cash, operating cash flow and the Company’s Credit Facility to provide short-term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under the Company’s Credit Facility could be higher than the cost of commercial paper borrowings.

On June 17, 2011, the Company entered into a $3.0 billion 364-day unsecured revolving credit facility (the “364-Day Facility”) in connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. The Company reduced the commitments under the 364-Day Facility over the balance of the year and terminated the facility as of December 29, 2011. There were no outstanding borrowings under the 364-Day Facility at any time during the term of the facility.

Other Long-Term Indebtedness

2011 Financing Notes—On June 23, 2011, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of the 2011 Financing Notes, all of which are unsecured. The 2013 Notes were issued at 100% of their principal amount, will mature on June 21, 2013 and accrue interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 0.25% per year. The 2014 Notes were issued at 99.918% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2014 and accrue interest at the rate of 1.3% per year. The 2016 Notes were issued at 99.84% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2016 and accrue interest at the rate of 2.3% per year. The 2021 Notes were issued at 99.975% of their principal amount, will mature on June 23, 2021 and accrue interest at the rate of 3.9% per year. The net proceeds from the 2011 Financing Notes offering, after deducting expenses and the underwriters’ discount, were approximately $1.8 billion and were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of Beckman Coulter. The Company pays interest on the 2013 Notes quarterly in arrears on March 21, June 21, September 21 and December 21 of each year. The Company pays interest on the 2014 Notes, 2016 Notes and 2021 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on June 23 and December 23 of each year.

2019 Notes—In March 2009, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2019 Notes, which were issued at 99.93% of their principal amount, will mature on March 1, 2019 and accrue interest at the rate of 5.4% per year. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters’ discount, were approximately $745 million. A portion of the net proceeds were used to repay a portion of the Company’s outstanding commercial paper and the balance was used for general corporate 

52
purposes, including acquisitions. The Company pays interest on the 2019 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year.

2018 Notes—In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of the 2018 Notes, which were issued at 99.39% of their principal amount, will mature on January 15, 2018 and accrue interest at the rate of 5.625% per year. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters’ discount, were approximately $493 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of the Tektronix business. The Company pays interest on the 2018 Notes semi-annually in arrears, on January 15 and July 15 of each year.

Eurobond Notes—On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the United States. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were €496 million ($627 million based on exchange rates in effect at the time the offering closed) and were used to pay down a portion of the Company’s outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions.

LYONs—In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each $1,000 of principal amount at maturity into 29.0704 shares of the Company’s common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs that were originally issued, approximately 24.0 million shares of the Company’s common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2012, an aggregate of approximately 14 million shares of the Company’s common stock had been issued upon conversion of LYONs. As of December 31, 2012, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders had the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and/or Company common stock, at the Company’s option, on each of January 22, 2004 and January 22, 2011, which resulted in aggregate notes with an accreted value of approximately $1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash.

Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% of the bonds’ average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid $1 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for each of the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 and paid $2 million in contingent interest in 2010. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity.

Covenants and Redemption Provisions Applicable to the Notes

The Company may redeem some or all of the 2014 Notes, the 2016 Notes, the 2018 Notes and/or the 2019 Notes at any time by paying the principal amount and a “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Prior to March 23, 2021 (three months prior to their maturity date), the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes by paying the principal amount and a “make-whole” premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after March 23, 2021, the Company may redeem some or all of the 2021 Notes for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a change of control triggering event occurs with respect to the Notes, each holder of Notes may require the Company to repurchase some or all of its Notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest (100% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes). A change of control triggering event means the occurrence of both a change of control and a rating event, each as defined in the applicable supplemental indenture or comparable instrument. Except in connection with a change of control triggering event as described above, the Company does not have any credit rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt. In addition, the Company may redeem the Eurobond notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws, or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed.

The indentures and comparable instruments pursuant to which the Notes were issued each contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Company’s operations and as of December 31, 2012, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.

53
Beckman Coulter Indebtedness

In connection with the acquisition of Beckman Coulter in June 2011, the Company assumed indebtedness with a fair value of $1.6 billion (the “Beckman Coulter Notes”). During the third quarter of 2011, the Company retired substantially all of the Beckman Coulter Notes using proceeds from the issuance of U.S. dollar commercial paper and recorded an approximate $33 million ($21 million, after tax or $0.03 per diluted share) charge to earnings due to “make whole” payments associated with the extinguishment of certain of the Beckman Coulter Notes. The charge to earnings is reflected as loss on early extinguishment of debt in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.

For additional details regarding the Company’s debt as of December 31, 2012 see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Shelf Registration Statement

The Company maintains a “well-known seasoned issuer” shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance. The Company expects to use the net proceeds from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including without limitation reduction or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends and working capital. In May 2012, the Company filed a new shelf registration statement to replace the shelf registration statement that was filed in May 2009 and expired in May 2012.

On June 21, 2011, the Company used its then-current shelf registration statement to complete the underwritten public offering of 19,250,000 shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $51.75 per share. The net proceeds, after deducting expenses and the underwriters' discount, were approximately $966 million and were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for Beckman Coulter. On June 23, 2011, the Company also used this shelf registration statement to complete the underwritten public offering of the 2011 Financing Notes. 

Stock Repurchase Program

On May 11, 2010, the Company’s Board authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of the Company’s common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no expiration date for the Company’s repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased is determined by the Company’s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company’s equity compensation plans (or any successor plan) and for other corporate purposes. 

Pursuant to the stock repurchase program, during the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company repurchased approximately 12.5 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $648 million. Neither the Company nor any “affiliated purchaser” repurchased any shares of Company common stock during 2011 or 2010. As of December 31, 2012, the Company had approximately 7.5 million shares remaining for stock repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any future stock repurchases using the Company's available cash balance or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper.

Dividends

The Company declared a regular dividend of $0.025 per share that was paid on December 28, 2012 to holders of record on December 14, 2012. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2012 were approximately $86 million. Dividend payments were higher in 2012 as compared to 2011 because the Company's Board determined to accelerate the quarterly dividend payment that normally would have been paid in January 2013 and paid it in December 2012 instead.

Cash and Cash Requirements

As of December 31, 2012, the Company held $1.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an approximate weighted average annual interest rate of 0.3%. $625 million of this amount was held within the United States and $1.1 billion was held outside of the United States. The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, pay taxes, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock, pay dividends to shareholders and support other business needs. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper 

54
program or the Credit Facility, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program and/or access the capital markets as needed. The Company also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. With respect to the Eurobond Notes and the 2013 Notes, each of which matures in 2013, the Company expects to repay the principal amounts when due under these notes using available cash, proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and/or proceeds from other debt issuances.

While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company's foreign cash balances could be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, could be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. For most of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an election regarding the amount of earnings intended for indefinite reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States. A deferred tax liability has been accrued for the funds that are available to be repatriated to the United States. No provisions for U.S. income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, and the amount of U.S. income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ if it repatriated these earnings. The cash that our foreign subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations and investments, including acquisitions. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States for which deferred taxes have not been provided was approximately $9.3 billion and $7.8 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, management believes that is has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States.

During 2012, the Company contributed approximately $55 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $53 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans. During 2013, the Company’s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. defined benefit pension plan are not expected to be significant and the Company’s cash contribution requirements for its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately $52 million. The ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors.

Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Company’s contractual obligations relating to continuing operations as of December 31, 2012 under (1) long-term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on the Company’s balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $592 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) As described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long-term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table.

(c) Interest payments on long-term debt are projected for future periods using the interest rates in effect as of December 31, 2012. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in market interest rates.

55
(d) As described in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, certain leases require the Company to pay real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses associated with the leased premises. These future costs are not included in the schedule above.

(e) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, fixed, minimum or variable price provisions and the approximate timing of the transaction.

(f) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self-insurance and litigation claims, post-retirement benefits, pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities (excluding unrecognized tax benefits) and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based upon management’s estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based upon historical experience.

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off-balance sheet commitments of the Company as of December 31, 2012.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Guarantees consist primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees and performance and bid bonds. These guarantees have been provided in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, financing counterparties and governmental entities to secure the Company’s obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions.

Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company has not included any such items in the contractual obligations table above because they relate to unknown conditions and the Company cannot estimate the potential liabilities from such matters, but the Company does not believe it is reasonably possible that any such liability will have a material effect on the Company’s financial statements. In addition, as a result of these divestitures, as well as restructuring activities, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub-lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Company’s financial statements.

In the normal course of business, the Company periodically enters into agreements that require it to indemnify customers, suppliers or other business partners for specific risks, such as claims for injury or property damage arising out of the Company’s products or claims alleging that Company products infringe third-party intellectual property. The Company has not included any such indemnification provisions in the contractual commitments table above. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant losses on these types of indemnification obligations.

The Company’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. Danaher’s Amended and Restated By-laws provide for similar indemnification rights. In addition, Danaher has executed with each director and executive officer of Danaher Corporation an indemnification agreement which provides for substantially similar indemnification rights and under which Danaher has agreed to pay expenses in advance of the final disposition of any such indemnifiable proceeding. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage.

56
Legal Proceedings

Please refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain litigation matters.

In addition to the litigation matters noted under “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Matters – Environmental, Health & Safety”, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Company’s products and services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, personal injury and insurance coverage. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits may include claims for punitive and consequential, as well as compensatory damages. Based upon the Company’s experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe it is reasonably possible that these proceedings and claims will have a material effect on its financial statements.

While the Company maintains general, products, property, workers’ compensation, automobile, cargo, aviation, crime, fiduciary and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) up to certain limits that cover certain of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. For general, products and property liability and most other insured risks, the Company purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses (“stop loss” insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self-insured retention. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses.

In accordance with accounting guidance, the Company records a liability in the consolidated financial statements for loss contingencies when a loss is known or considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a known or probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other, the minimum amount of the range is accrued. If a loss does not meet the known or probable level but is reasonably possible and a loss or range of loss can be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss or range of loss is disclosed. The Company's reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts for anticipated developments of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified with the assistance of legal counsel and outside risk professionals where appropriate. In addition, outside risk professionals assist in the determination of reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims through evaluation of the Company’s specific loss history, actual claims reported and industry trends among statistical and other factors. Reserve estimates are adjusted as additional information regarding a claim becomes known. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in our settlement strategy. While the Company actively pursues financial recoveries from insurance providers, it does not recognize any recoveries until realized or until such time as a sustained pattern of collections is established related to historical matters of a similar nature and magnitude. If the Company’s self-insurance and litigation reserves prove inadequate, it would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s net earnings. Please see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the amount of our accruals for self-insurance and litigation liability.

For a discussion of additional risks related to legal proceedings, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates and judgments.

The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period to period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

57
Accounts Receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts to reflect probable credit losses inherent in its portfolio of receivables. Determination of the allowances requires management to exercise judgment about the timing, frequency and severity of credit losses that could materially affect the allowances for doubtful accounts and, therefore, net income. The allowances for doubtful accounts represent management’s best estimate of the credit losses expected from the Company’s trade accounts, contract and finance receivable portfolios based on ongoing assessments and evaluations of collectability and historical loss experience. The level of the allowances is based on many quantitative and qualitative factors including historical loss experience by receivable type, portfolio duration, delinquency trends, economic conditions and credit risk quality. The Company regularly performs detailed reviews of its accounts receivable portfolio to determine if an impairment has occurred and to assess the adequacy of the allowances. Additions to the allowances for doubtful accounts are charged to current period earnings; amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowances, while amounts recovered on accounts previously determined to be uncollectible increase the allowances. If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances would be required and net earnings would be adversely impacted.

Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Company’s markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Company’s control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Company’s financial statements.

Acquired Intangibles. The Company’s business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, in-process research and development ("IPR&D") and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur. The Company does not amortize goodwill but does amortize certain identifiable intangible assets, primarily customer relationships and acquired technology, over the estimated useful life of the identified asset. IPR&D is initially capitalized at fair value as an indefinite-lived intangible asset and is subject to annual impairment reviews or more often upon the occurrence of certain events. When the IPR&D project is complete, the asset is reclassified as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized over the asset's estimated useful life. If an IPR&D project is abandoned, an impairment loss equal to the value of the intangible asset is recorded in the period of abandonment.

During 2012, accounting guidance became effective that simplifies how entities test goodwill for impairment. The guidance permits the Company to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. Alternatively, the Company may decide to proceed directly to the two-step goodwill impairment test. The Company may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. For 2012, the Company elected to bypass the optional qualitative assessment and performed a quantitative impairment test for all reporting units as this was determined to be the most efficient method to assess for impairment across a large spectrum of reporting units. 

On an annual basis (the first day of the Company’s fiscal fourth quarter) the Company quantitatively estimates the fair value of each of its reporting units and compares the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company must perform additional analysis to determine if the reporting unit’s goodwill has been impaired. If circumstances or events prior to the date of the required annual assessment indicate that, in management’s judgment, it is more likely than not that there has been diminution of fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value, the Company performs an impairment analysis at the time of such circumstance or event. 

The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market based approach. The Company estimates fair value based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) multiples determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company’s reporting units, in addition to recent market available precedent transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, management assesses the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data. In certain circumstances the Company also estimates fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach) in order to validate the results of the market approach. The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company must perform additional analysis to determine if the reporting unit's goodwill has been impaired. 

58
While the Company believes it has made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of its reporting units, if actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings.

As of December 31, 2012, the Company had twenty-one reporting units for goodwill impairment testing. The carrying value of the goodwill included in each individual reporting unit ranges from $7 million to $3.9 billion. The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2012 indicated that in all instances, the fair value of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 27% to approximately 804%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units ranged from approximately 15% to approximately 714%. Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment. Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth.

Contingent Liabilities. As discussed above under “—Legal Proceedings”, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed above under “—Legal Proceedings”. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements.

Revenue Recognition: The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services. For revenue related to a product or service to qualify for recognition, there must be persuasive evidence of a sale, delivery must have occurred or the services must have been rendered, the price to the customer must be fixed and determinable and collectability of the balance must be reasonably assured. Refer to Note 1 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s revenue recognition policies. Although most of the Company’s sales agreements contain standard terms and conditions, certain agreements contain multiple elements or non-standard terms and conditions. As a result, judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in these agreements should be treated as separate units of accounting for sales recognition purposes, and, if so, how the sales price should be allocated among the elements and when to recognize sales for each element. For fiscal 2011 and future periods, revenues for contractual arrangements consisting of multiple elements (i.e. deliverables) are recognized for the separate elements when the product or services that are part of the multiple element arrangement have value on a stand-alone basis and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element is considered probable and substantially in the Company’s control. The Company allocates revenue to each element in the contractual arrangement based on a selling price hierarchy that, in some instances, may require the Company to estimate the selling price of certain deliverables that are not sold on a stand-alone basis or where third party evidence of pricing is not observable. The Company’s estimate of selling price impacts the amount and timing of revenue recognized in multiple element arrangements. For transactions entered into prior to fiscal year 2011, revenue for multiple element arrangements was recognized for the separate elements when the product or services that are part of the multiple element arrangement had value on a stand-alone basis, fair value of the separate elements exists (or in the case of software related products, vendor specific objective evidence of fair value) and, in arrangements that include a general right of refund relative to the delivered element, performance of the undelivered element was considered probable and substantially in the Company’s control. A portion of the Company’s revenues relate to lease payment arrangements, which require the Company to evaluate whether to account for the arrangement as an operating or sales type lease. Certain of the Company’s lease contracts are customized for larger customers and often result in complex terms and conditions that typically require significant judgment in applying the lease accounting criteria.

Stock-Based Compensation: The Company accounts for stock-based compensation by measuring the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options, restricted stock units (“RSUs”) and restricted shares, based on the fair value of the award as of the grant date. For a description of the Company’s stock-based compensation accounting practices, refer to Note 17 to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based payment awards require subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based payment awards represent the Company’s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application 

59
of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and the Company uses different assumptions, the Company’s equity-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, the Company is required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If the Company’s actual forfeiture rate during a reporting period is materially different than its estimate, the Company’s earnings may be significantly impacted as the Company records the effect of actual experience in the period it occurs.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Benefits: Certain of the Company’s employees and retired employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans (“pension plans”) and certain eligible retirees are entitled to health care and life insurance benefits under post-retirement benefit plans (“post-retirement plans”). The Company measures its pension and post retirement plans’ assets and obligations as of the end of each year to determine the funded status of each plan. The Company recognizes an asset for a plan’s overfunded status or a liability for a plan’s underfunded status in its balance sheet. Changes in the funded status of the plans are recognized in the year in which the changes occur and are reported in comprehensive income. Accounting standards require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or income, associated with the pension and post-retirement plans be computed using actuarial valuations. For a description of the Company's pension benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 11 and 12 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.

Calculations of the amount of pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. Upon the sale of the KEO business during 2012, the Danaher U.S. defined benefit pension plan became fully frozen and plan participants are therefore no longer accruing benefits under this plan. In connection with this triggering event, the Company updated the loss amortization period for actuarial gains and losses in the plan to record them over the remaining life expectancy of the plan participants, rather than over the average future working lifetime of the plan participants as had been the case before the plan became fully frozen. In addition, the Company updated the mortality assumptions used to estimate the projected benefit obligation to reflect updated mortality tables which extend the life expectancy of the participants. The impact of these changes will reduce pension expense in 2013 by $29 million compared to what would have been recorded had these changes not been made. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other post-retirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, changes in the assumptions (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company’s financial statements could be materially impacted. A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $158 million ($99 million on an after tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $106 million ($79 million on an after tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2012.

For 2012, the expected long-term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the U.S. plan has been estimated at 7.50%. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long-term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan targets to invest between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities or in assets with characteristics similar to equity investments. The balance of the asset portfolio is generally invested in bond funds. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2012 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for 2012 would have increased $12 million (or $8 million on an after-tax basis). The Company intends to use an expected long-term rate of return assumption of 7.5% for 2013 for its U.S. plan. The Company’s non-U.S. plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.25% to 7.10%.

For a discussion of the Company’s 2012 and anticipated 2013 defined benefit pension plan contributions, please see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash and Cash Requirements”.

Income Taxes: The Company’s income tax expense represents the current tax liability for the year and the tax benefit or expense for the net change in deferred tax liabilities and assets during the year. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the differences reverse. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in the Company’s tax return in future years for which the tax benefit has already been reflected on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For a description of the Company's income tax accounting policies, refer to Note 1 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Judgment is required in estimating valuation allowances. The determination of the amount of valuation allowance to be provided on recorded deferred tax assets involves estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies, and can also be impacted by changes to tax laws. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items that have already been taken as a deduction on the 

60
Company’s tax return but have not yet been recognized as an expense in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date.

The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions by recognizing the financial statement effects of a tax position only when, based upon the technical merits, it is “more-likely-than-not” that the position will be sustained upon examination. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. The Company generally re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and recognizes an uncertain tax benefit when: (i) there is completion of tax audit; (ii) there is a change in applicable tax law including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii) there is an expiration of the statute of limitations.

An increase in our nominal tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 of approximately $30 million.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In February 2013, updated accounting guidance was issued which adds new disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The guidance does not amend any existing requirements for reporting net income or other comprehensive income in the financial statements. This guidance is effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012, with early adoption permitted. As this new guidance is related to presentation only, the implementation of this guidance in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 will not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

In July 2012, updated accounting guidance was issued which allows entities to perform a qualitative assessment by applying a more likely than not scenario (defined as having a likelihood of more than 50 percent) to determine whether an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. The guidance is effective for indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment tests performed in interim and annual periods for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012, with early adoption permitted. The implementation of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK