ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

DESCRIPTION OF THE COMPANY  

We are one of the world’s largest meat protein companies and the second-largest food production company in the Fortune 500 with one of the most recognized brand names in the food industry. We produce, distribute and market chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and related allied products. Our operations are conducted in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. Some of the key factors influencing our business are customer demand for our products; the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace; accessibility of international markets; market prices for our products; the cost of live cattle and hogs, raw materials, grain and feed ingredients; and operating efficiencies of our facilities.  

OVERVIEW  

   —    General – As a result of improved internal performance, strong exports and favorable market conditions in our Beef and Pork segments, our operating results remained strong in fiscal 2011 despite a $3.7 billion increase in input costs. The following are a few of the key drivers:  

   —    We continued to focus on maximizing our margins through margin management and operational efficiency improvements. Margin management improvements occurred in the areas of mix, export sales, price optimization and value-added products initiatives. The operational efficiencies occurred in the areas of yields, cost reduction, labor management and logistics cost optimization.  

   —    Strong demand and exports in the Beef and Pork segments created a favorable pricing environment. While our Chicken segment remained profitable in fiscal 2011, we were challenged by $675 million in increased grain and other feed ingredients costs, as well as excess industry supplies, which made it difficult to pass along the increased input costs. As a result of balancing our supply with customer demand, we cut production after customer demand fell short of expectations. Recent USDA data indicates decreased egg sets, broiler chick placements and slaughter pounds. However, the impact of these production cuts, and the associated impact on market prices, did not begin to materialize until late fourth quarter and into fiscal 2012.  

   —    With an operating margin of 4.0% in fiscal 2011, we have achieved operating margins of 4.0% or better in consecutive years for the first time since the acquisition of IBP, inc. in 2001. The following is a summary of operating margins by segment:  

   —    Chicken – 1.5%  

   —    Beef – 3.5%  

   —    Pork – 10.3%  

   —    Prepared Foods – 3.6%  

   —    Debt and Liquidity – During fiscal 2011, we generated $1.0 billion of operating cash flows. Total debt declined $350 million in fiscal 2011 to $2.2 billion, the lowest level since the acquisition of IBP, inc. Additionally, we repurchased, as part of our previously announced share repurchase program, 9.7 million shares of our stock for $170 million in fiscal 2011. At October 1, 2011, we had $1.6 billion of liquidity, which includes the availability under our credit facility and $716 million of cash and cash equivalents.  

   —    Our accounting cycle resulted in a 52-week year for both fiscal 2011 and 2010 and a 53-week year for fiscal 2009.  

18  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 – Net income included the following items:  

   —    $11 million gain related to a sale of interests in an equity method investment; and  

   —    $21 million reduction to income tax expense related to a reversal of reserves for foreign uncertain tax positions.  

2010 – Net income included the following items:  

   —    $61 million in charges related to losses on notes repurchased during fiscal 2010;  

   —    $29 million non-cash, non-tax deductible charge related to a full goodwill impairment in an immaterial Chicken segment reporting unit;  

   —    $12 million non-cash, non-tax deductible charge related to the impairment of an equity method investment; and  

   —    $38 million gain from insurance proceeds.  

2009 – Net loss included the following items:  

   —    $560 million non-cash, non-tax deductible charge related to a goodwill impairment in our Beef segment; and  

   —    $15 million charge related to the closing of our Ponca City, Oklahoma, processed meats plant.  

FISCAL 2012 OUTLOOK  

USDA data indicates overall domestic protein (chicken, beef, pork and turkey) production is expected to decrease in fiscal 2012. Because exports are likely to remain strong, we forecast total domestic availability of protein to be down 2-3% compared to fiscal 2011, which should continue to support improved pricing. The following is a summary of the fiscal 2012 outlook for each of our segments, as well as an outlook on sales, capital expenditures, net interest expense, debt and liquidity and share repurchases:  

   —    Chicken – For fiscal 2012, we expect industry production will decrease approximately 4% from fiscal 2011, which should gradually improve market pricing conditions. Current futures prices indicate higher grain costs in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 2011. We expect to offset the increased grain costs with operational, pricing and mix improvements. Our Chicken segment is currently profitable and we expect it to strengthen throughout the year.  

   —    Beef – We expect to see a gradual reduction in fed cattle supplies of 1-2% in fiscal 2012 as well as exports to remain strong as compared to fiscal 2011. Despite reduced domestic availability, we expect adequate supplies in the regions we operate our plants. Although current weak industry fundamentals are challenging our Beef business, we expect it to be profitable in the first quarter. We anticipate the fundamentals will strengthen throughout the year and our Beef segment will be in our normalized range for fiscal 2012.  

   —    Pork – We expect hog supplies in fiscal 2012 to be comparable to fiscal 2011 and to be adequate in the regions in which we operate. Additionally, we expect pork exports to remain strong in fiscal 2012. Based on these factors, we expect strong fundamentals in our Pork business to continue in fiscal 2012.  

   —    Prepared Foods – We expect operational improvements and increased pricing to offset an anticipated increase in raw material costs. Because many of our sales contracts are formula based or shorter-term in nature, we are typically able to offset rising input costs through increased pricing. However, there is a lag time for price increases to take effect. We expect improved Prepared Foods profitability for fiscal 2012 primarily due to improvements in our lunchmeats business.  

   —    Sales – We expect 2012 sales to exceed $34 billion mostly resulting from price increases related to decreases in domestic availability of protein and rising raw material costs.  

   —    Capital Expenditures – Our preliminary capital expenditures plan for fiscal 2012 is approximately $800-$850 million. We will continue to make significant investments in our production facilities for high return operational efficiencies, other profit improvement projects and development of our foreign operations.  

   —    Net Interest Expense – We expect fiscal 2012 net interest expense will be approximately $185 million, down $46 million compared to fiscal 2011.  

   —    Debt and Liquidity – We do not have any significant maturities of debt coming due over the next two fiscal years and will continue to use our available cash to repurchase notes when available at attractive rates. We plan to maintain total liquidity in excess of $1.2 billion.  

   —    Share Repurchases – We expect to continue repurchasing shares under our previously announced share repurchase plan. In fiscal 2011, we repurchased 9.7 million shares for approximately $170 million. As of October 1, 2011, 12.8 million shares remain authorized for repurchases. The timing and extent to which we repurchase shares will depend upon, among other things, market conditions, liquidity targets, our debt obligations and regulatory requirements.  

19  

Table of Contents 

SUMMARY OF RESULTS – CONTINUING OPERATIONS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 vs. 2010 –  

   —    Average Sales Price – The increase in sales was largely due to an increase in average sales prices, which accounted for an increase of approximately $3.4 billion. While all segments had an increase in average sales prices mostly due to price increases associated with rising raw material costs, the majority of the increase was driven by the Beef and Pork segments.  

   —    Sales Volume – Sales were positively impacted by an increase in sales volume, which accounted for an increase of $484 million. This was primarily due to increases in the Chicken and Pork segments, partially offset by decreases in the Beef and Prepared Foods segments.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Average Sales Price – The increase in sales was largely due to an increase in average sales prices, which accounted for an increase of approximately $1.9 billion. While all segments had an increase in average sales prices, the majority of the increase was driven by the Beef and Pork segments.  

   —    Sales Volume – Sales were negatively impacted by a decrease in sales volume, which accounted for a decrease of $150 million. This was primarily due to an extra week in fiscal 2009 and the decrease in Pork segment sales volume, partially offset by an increase from a fiscal 2009 acquisition in the Chicken segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 vs. 2010 –  

   —    Cost of sales increased by approximately $4.1 billion. Higher input cost per pound increased cost of sales by approximately $3.7 billion, while higher sales volume increased cost of sales $445 million.  

   —    The $3.7 billion impact of higher input costs per pound was primarily driven by:  

   —    Increase in average live cattle and hog costs of approximately $2.4 billion.  

   —    Increase in grain and feed ingredients of $675 million and increase in other growout operating costs of $74 million in our Chicken segment, which were partially offset by approximately $200 million of operational improvements.  

   —    Increase in raw material costs of $273 million in our Prepared Foods segment.  

   —    The $0.4 billion impact of higher sales volumes was primarily driven by:  

   —    Increases in sales volume in our Chicken and Pork segments partially offset by decreases in our Beef and Prepared Foods segments.  

   —    Increase of $145 million of costs of sales associated with Dynamic Fuels, which commenced production activities in fiscal 2011.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Cost of sales increased $415 million. Higher cost per pound increased cost of sales by $558 million, partially offset by lower sales volume which decreased cost of sales by $143 million.  

   —    Increase in average live cattle and hog costs of approximately $1.0 billion.  

   —    Increase due to net losses of $78 million in fiscal 2010, as compared to net gains of $191 million in fiscal 2009, from our commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live cattle and hogs, and excludes the impact from related physical purchase transactions which impact current and future period operating results.  

   —    Increase in raw material costs of approximately $218 million in our Prepared Foods segment.  

   —    Increase in incentive-based compensation of approximately $97 million.  

   —    Decrease due to net losses of $6 million in fiscal 2010, as compared to net losses of $257 million in fiscal 2009, from our commodity risk management activities related to grain and energy purchases, and excludes the impact from related physical purchase transactions which impact current and future period operating results.  

   —    Decrease in grain costs in the Chicken segment of approximately $158 million.  

   —    Decrease in the Chicken segment costs resulting from operational improvements.  

20  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 vs. 2010 –  

   —    Decrease of $13 million related to incentive-based compensation.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Increase of $118 million related to incentive-based compensation.  

   —    Reductions include decreases resulting from one less week in fiscal 2010 compared to fiscal 2009, as well as a $16 million reduction in professional fees, advertising and sales promotions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We perform our annual goodwill impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis. As further discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, this analysis requires us to make various judgmental estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount factors.  

2010 – Includes the full impairment of an immaterial Chicken segment reporting unit.  

2009 – Includes the partial impairment of our Beef segment reporting unit.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 – Included $15 million charge related to closing our Ponca City, Oklahoma, processed meats plant.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011/2010/2009 – Declines in interest income are primarily due to declines in cash balances and interest rates. The declines in cash balances are primarily due to repurchases, retirement and redemption of senior notes, repurchases of Class A common stock under the reactivated share repurchase program and additions to property, plant and equipment.  

21  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 vs. 2010 –  

   —    Cash interest expense included interest expense related to the coupon rates for senior notes and commitment/letter of credit fees incurred on our revolving credit facilities. The decrease is due primarily to lower average weekly indebtedness of approximately 15%.  

   —    Losses on notes repurchased during fiscal 2011 and 2010 included the amount paid exceeding the carrying value of the notes repurchased, which primarily included the repurchases of the 8.25% Notes due October 2011 (2011 Notes) and the 6.85% Senior notes due April 2016 (2016 Notes).  

   —    Non-cash interest expense primarily included interest related to the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts/premiums on note issuances. This included debt issuance costs incurred on our revolving credit facility, the 10.50% Senior Notes due 2014 (2014 Notes) issued in March 2009, as well as the accretion of the debt discount on the 3.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2013 (2013 Notes) and 2014 Notes.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Cash interest expense included interest expense related to the coupon rates for senior notes and commitment/letter of credit fees incurred on our revolving credit facilities. The decrease is due to lower average weekly indebtedness of approximately 11%, partially offset by an increase in the overall average borrowing rates.  

   —    Losses on notes repurchased during fiscal 2010 included the amount paid exceeding the carrying value of the notes repurchased, which primarily included the repurchases of the 2011 Notes and the 2016 Notes.  

   —    Non-cash interest expense primarily included interest related to the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts/premiums on note issuances. This included debt issuance costs incurred on our revolving credit facility, the 2014 Notes, as well as the accretion of the debt discount on the 2013 Notes and 2014 Notes. Fiscal 2009 also includes expenses related to amendment fees paid in December 2008 on our then existing credit agreements.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 – Included $11 million gain related to a sale of interests in an equity method investment.  

2010 – Included $12 million charge related to the impairment of an equity method investment.  

2009 – Included $24 million in foreign currency exchange loss.  

22  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The effective tax rate on continuing operations was impacted by a number of items which result in a difference between our effective tax rate and the U.S. statutory rate of 35%. The table below reflects significant items impacting the rate as indicated.  

2011 –  

   —    Domestic production activity deduction reduced the rate 2.3%.  

   —    Net decrease in unrecognized tax benefits reduced the rate 1.7%.  

   —    State income taxes increased the rate 1.6%.  

   —    General business credits decreased the rate 0.9%  

2010 –  

   —    Domestic production activity deduction reduced the rate 2.0%.  

   —    Decrease in unrecognized tax benefits reduced the rate 1.4%.  

   —    Decrease in state valuation allowances reduced the rate 1.0%.  

   —    State income taxes increased the rate 3.4%.  

2009 –  

   —    Impairment of goodwill, which is not deductible for income tax purposes, reduced the rate 36.1%.  

   —    Increase in foreign valuation allowances reduced the rate 3.8%.  

   —    General business credits increased the rate 2.2%.  

   —    Tax planning in foreign jurisdictions increased the rate 1.7%.  

SEGMENT RESULTS  

We operate in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. The following table is a summary of sales and operating income (loss), which is how we measure segment income (loss). Segment results exclude the results of our discontinued operation, Lakeside.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

23  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 – Operating income included a $38 million gain from insurance proceeds and a $29 million non-cash, non-tax deductible charge related to a full goodwill impairment of an immaterial Chicken segment reporting unit.  

2011 vs. 2010 –  

   —    Sales Volume – A 2.1% increase in slaughter pounds that mostly occurred in the first three quarters of fiscal 2011 and a reduction of volumes in ending inventory in fiscal 2011 as compared to fiscal 2010, primarily drove the 4.6% increase in sales volume for fiscal 2011.  

   —    Average Sales Price – The increase in average sales prices is primarily due to mix changes and price increases associated with increased input costs.  

   —    Operating Income –  

   —    Grain, Feed Ingredients and Growout Costs – Operating results were negatively impacted in fiscal 2011 by an increase in grain and feed ingredients costs of $675 million and an increase in other growout operating costs of $74 million.  

   —    Operational Improvements – Operating results were positively impacted by approximately $200 million of operational improvements, primarily attributed to improvements in yield, mix and processing optimization. These operational improvements were partially offset by an increase in operating costs, mostly from cooking ingredients and employee related costs.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to grain and energy purchases. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Sales Volume – The increase in sales volume for fiscal 2010 was due to sales volume related to a fiscal 2009 acquisition, partially offset by a decrease due to the extra week in fiscal 2009.  

   —    Average Sales Price – The increase in average sales prices is primarily due to sales mix changes associated with the reduced sales volume of lower price per pound rendered products.  

   —    Operating Income (Loss) –  

   —    Operational Improvements – Operating results were positively impacted by operational improvements, which included: yield, mix and live production performance improvements; additional processing flexibility; and reduced interplant product movement.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to grain and energy purchases. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    Grain Costs – Operating results were positively impacted in fiscal 2010 by a decrease in grain costs of $158 million.  

   —    Operating results included an increase in incentive-based compensation.  

24  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 – Operating loss included a $560 million non-cash charge related to the partial impairment of goodwill.  

2011 vs. 2010 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income –  

   —    Average sales price increased due to price increases associated with increased livestock costs. We have maintained strong operating income by maximizing our revenues relative to the rising live cattle markets, partially attributable to strong export sales. This was offset by an increase in operating costs, primarily attributable to employee related costs.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live cattle. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical sale and purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income (Loss) –  

   —    We increased our operating margins by maximizing our revenues relative to the rising live cattle markets, as well as improved our operating costs. In addition, we had an improvement in our export sales. Operating results included an increase in incentive-based compensation.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live cattle. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical sale and purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

25  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2011 vs. 2010 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income –  

   —    Average sales price increased due to price increases associated with increased livestock costs. We have maintained strong operating income by maximizing our revenues relative to the rising live hog markets, partially attributable to strong export sales and operational and mix performance.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live hogs. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical sale and purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income –  

   —    We increased our operating margins by maximizing our revenues relative to the rising live hog markets. In addition, we had an improvement in our export sales. Operating results included an increase in incentive-based compensation.  

   —    Derivative Activities – Operating results included the following amounts for commodity risk management activities related to forward futures contracts for live hogs. These amounts exclude the impact from related physical sale and purchase transactions, which impact current and future period operating results.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

26  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2009 – Operating income included a $15 million charge related to closing our Ponca City, Oklahoma, processed meats plant.  

2011 vs. 2010 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income – Despite the increase in average sales prices, operating income remained flat, excluding $8 million in insurance proceeds in fiscal 2010 related to flood damage at our Jefferson, Wisconsin plant. The increase in average sales prices were offset by lower volumes, increased raw material costs of $273 million and increased operational costs of $50 million, primarily attributable to employee related costs and plant variances mostly due to lower volumes.  

2010 vs. 2009 –  

   —    Sales and Operating Income – Despite the increase in average sales prices and sales volume, operating income declined in fiscal 2010 as compared to fiscal 2009 due to an increase in raw material costs. However, we made several operational improvements in late fiscal 2009 that allow us to run our plants more efficiently. Operating results included an increase in incentive-based compensation.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Our cash needs for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, the repurchases of senior notes and share repurchases are expected to be met with current cash on hand, cash flows provided by operating activities, or short-term borrowings. Based on our current expectations, we believe our liquidity and capital resources will be sufficient to operate our business. However, we may take advantage of opportunities to generate additional liquidity or refinance existing debt through capital market transactions. The amount, nature and timing of any capital market transactions will depend on: our operating performance and other circumstances; our then-current commitments and obligations; the amount, nature and timing of our capital requirements; any limitations imposed by our current credit arrangements; and overall market conditions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash flows associated with changes in working capital:  

   —    2011 – Decreased due to the increase in inventory and accounts receivable balances, partially offset by the increase in accounts payable. The higher inventory and accounts receivable balances were driven by significant increases in input costs and price increases associated with the increased input costs.  

   —    2010 – Increased due to the increase in accrued salaries, wages and benefits and accounts payable balances, almost entirely offset by the increase in inventory and accounts receivable balances. The increase in accrued salaries, wages and benefits is primarily due to the accruals for incentive-based compensation.  

   —    2009 – Increased primarily due to a reduction in inventory and accounts receivable balances, partially offset by a reduction in accounts payable. The lower inventory balance was primarily due to the reduction of inventory volumes, as well as a decrease in raw material costs.  

27  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    Additions to property, plant and equipment include acquiring new equipment and upgrading our facilities to maintain competitive standing and position us for future opportunities. In fiscal 2011, our capital spending was primarily for production efficiencies in our operations and for ongoing development of foreign operations. In fiscal 2010, our capital spending was primarily related to production efficiencies in our operations, construction of Dynamic Fuels’ facility and development of our foreign operations. In fiscal 2009, our capital spending was for improvements made in our prepared foods operations to increase efficiencies, construction of Dynamic Fuels’ facility and development of our foreign operations.  

   —    Capital spending for fiscal 2012 is expected to be approximately $800-$850 million, and includes spending on our operations for production and labor efficiencies, yield improvements and sales channel flexibility, as well as expansion of our foreign operations.  

   —    Purchases of marketable securities included funding for our deferred compensation plans.  

   —    Proceeds from notes receivable totaling $51 million in fiscal 2011 related to the collection of notes receivable received in conjunction with the sale of a business operation in fiscal 2009.  

   —    Change in restricted cash – In fiscal 2009, Dynamic Fuels received $100 million in proceeds from the sale of Gulf Opportunity Zone tax-exempt bonds made available by the federal government to the regions affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. The cash received from these bonds was restricted and could only be used towards the construction of the Dynamic Fuels’ facility.  

   —    Acquisitions – In fiscal 2009, we acquired three vertically integrated poultry companies in southern Brazil. The aggregate purchase price was $67 million. In addition, we had $15 million of contingent purchase price based on production volumes. The joint ventures in China called Shandong Tyson Xinchang Foods received the necessary government approvals during fiscal 2009. The aggregate purchase price for our 60% equity interest was $21 million, which excludes $93 million of cash transferred to the joint venture for future capital needs.  

28  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    Net borrowings (payments) on revolving credit facilities primarily include activity related to the accounts receivable securitization facility. With the entry into a new revolving credit facility and issuance of the 2014 Notes in March 2009, we repaid all outstanding borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility and terminated the facility.  

   —    Payments on debt include –  

   —    2011 – $315 million of 2011 Notes; $63 million of 2016 Notes; $2 million of 7.0% Notes due May 2018; and $103 million related to borrowings at our foreign operations.  

   —    2010 – $524 million of 2011 Notes; $222 million of 2016 Notes; $140 million of 7.95% Notes due February 2010 (2010 Notes) (using the restricted cash held in a blocked cash collateral account for the retirement of these notes); $52 million of 7.0% Notes due May 2018; and $61 million related to the premiums on notes repurchased during the year.  

   —    2009 – $161 million of 2011 Notes; $94 million of 2010 Notes (using the restricted cash held in a blocked cash collateral account for the repurchase of these notes); and $38 million of 2016 Notes.  

   —    Net proceeds from borrowings include –  

   —    In fiscal 2011, our foreign operations received proceeds of $106 million from borrowings. Total debt related to our foreign operations was $98 million at October 1, 2011 ($58 million current, $40 million long-term). Additionally, Dynamic Fuels received $9 million in proceeds from short term notes in fiscal 2011.  

   —    In fiscal 2009, we issued $810 million of 2014 Notes. After the original issue discount of $59 million, based on an issue price of 92.756% of face value, we received net proceeds of $751 million. We used the net proceeds towards the repayment of our borrowings under our accounts receivable securitization facility and for other general corporate purposes.  

   —    In fiscal 2009, Dynamic Fuels received $100 million in proceeds from the sale of Gulf Opportunity Zone tax-exempt bonds made available by the Federal government to the regions affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. These floating rate bonds are due October 1, 2033.  

   —    In conjunction with the entry into our credit facility and the issuance of the 2014 Notes during fiscal 2009, we paid $48 million for debt issuance costs.  

   —    In fiscal 2011, the minority interest partner in our 60%-owned Shandong Tyson Xinchang Foods joint ventures in China exercised put options requiring us to purchase its entire 40% equity interest. The transaction closed in fiscal 2011 for cash consideration totaling $66 million.  

   —    In fiscal 2011, we announced our Board of Directors reactivated a share repurchase program, which had no activity since fiscal 2005, to repurchase up to the remaining available 22.5 million shares of Class A common stock under the program. The share repurchase program has no fixed or scheduled termination date. During fiscal 2011, we repurchased 9.7 million shares for approximately $170 million under this plan. As of October 1, 2011, 12.8 million shares remain authorized for repurchase. The timing and extent to which we repurchase shares will depend upon, among other things, market conditions, liquidity targets, limitations under our debt obligations and regulatory requirements. In addition to the share repurchase program, we purchase shares on the open market to fund certain obligations under our equity compensation plans. These repurchases totaled $37 million, $48 million and $19 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

29  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   —    The revolving credit facility supports our short-term funding needs and letters of credit. Letters of credit are issued primarily in support of workers’ compensation insurance programs, derivative activities and Dynamic Fuels’ Gulf Opportunity Zone tax-exempt bonds.  

   —    Our 2013 Notes may be converted early during any fiscal quarter in the event our Class A stock trades at or above $21.96 for at least 20 trading days during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter. In this event, the note holders may require us to pay outstanding principal in cash, which totaled $458 million at October 1, 2011. Any conversion premium would be paid in shares of Class A stock. The conditions for early conversion were not met in our fourth fiscal quarter of fiscal 2011, and thus, the notes may not be converted in our first quarter of fiscal 2012. Should the conditions for early conversion be satisfied in future quarters, and should the holders exercise their early conversion option, we would use current cash on hand and cash flow from operations for principal payments.  

   —    We do not have any significant maturities of debt coming due over the next two fiscal years.  

   —    Our current ratio was 2.01 to 1 and 1.81 to 1 at October 1, 2011, and October 2, 2010, respectively.  

Capital Resources  

Credit Facility  

Cash flows from operating activities and current cash on hand are our primary source of liquidity for funding debt service, capital expenditures, dividends and share repurchases. We also have a revolving credit facility, with a committed maximum capacity of $1.0 billion, to provide additional liquidity for working capital needs, letters of credit and a source of financing for growth opportunities. As of October 1, 2011, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $158 million, none of which were drawn upon, which left $842 million available for borrowing. Our revolving credit facility is funded by a syndicate of 38 banks, with commitments ranging from $3 million to $90 million per bank. The syndicate includes bank holding companies that are required to be adequately capitalized under federal bank regulatory agency requirements.  

Capitalization  

To monitor our credit ratings and our capacity for long-term financing, we consider various qualitative and quantitative factors. We monitor the ratio of our debt to our total capitalization as support for our long-term financing decisions. At October 1, 2011 and October 2, 2010, the ratio of our debt-to-total capitalization was 27.7% and 32.8%, respectively. For the purpose of this calculation, debt is defined as the sum of current and long-term debt. Total capitalization is defined as debt plus Total Shareholders’ Equity. Our ratio of debt to our total capitalization decreased in fiscal 2011 primarily resulting from reduced debt balances and increased retained earnings associated with strong earnings in fiscal 2011.  

Credit Ratings  

2016 Notes  

On September 4, 2008, Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgraded the credit rating from “BBB-” to “BB.” This downgrade increased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 6.85% to 7.35%, effective beginning with the six-month interest payment due October 1, 2008.  

On November 13, 2008, Moody’s Investors Services, Inc. (Moody’s) downgraded the credit rating from “Ba1” to “Ba3.” This downgrade increased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 7.35% to 7.85%, effective beginning with the six-month interest payment due April 1, 2009.  

On August 19, 2010, S&P upgraded the credit rating from “BB” to “BB+.” On September 2, 2010, Moody’s upgraded the credit rating from “Ba3” to “Ba2.” These upgrades decreased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 7.85% to 7.35%, effective beginning with the six-month interest payment due October 1, 2010.  

On February 24, 2011, S&P upgraded the credit rating of these notes from “BB+” to “BBB-.” On March 29, 2011, Moody’s upgraded our credit rating from “Ba2” to “Ba1”. These upgrades decreased the interest rate on the 2016 Notes from 7.35% to 6.85%, effective beginning with the six-month interest payment due April 1, 2011.  

A further one-notch upgrade by Moody’s would decrease the interest rates on the 2016 Notes by 0.25%, while a one-notch downgrade by either ratings agency would increase the interest rates on the 2016 Notes by 0.25%.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Revolving Credit Facility  

S&P’s corporate credit rating for Tyson Foods, Inc. is “BBB-.” Moody’s corporate credit rating for Tyson Foods, Inc. is “Ba1.” If Moody’s were to upgrade our credit rating to “Baa2” or higher while our S&P credit rating remained at “BBB-”, or S&P were to upgrade our credit rating to “BBB” or higher while Moody’s upgraded our credit rating to “Baa3” or higher, our letter of credit fees would decrease by 0.25% and fees paid on the unused portion of the facility would decrease by 0.075%.  

If S&P were to downgrade our corporate credit rating to “BB+” or Moody’s were to downgrade our corporate credit rating to “Ba2”, our letter of credit fees would increase by 0.25% and fees paid on the unused portion of the facility would increase by 0.025%.  

Debt Covenants  

Our revolving credit facility contains affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: create liens and encumbrances; incur debt; merge, dissolve, liquidate or consolidate; make acquisitions and investments; dispose of or transfer assets; pay dividends or make other payments in respect of our capital stock; amend material documents; change the nature of our business; make certain payments of debt; engage in certain transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale/leaseback or hedging transactions, in each case, subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In addition, we are required to maintain minimum interest expense coverage and maximum leverage ratios.  

Our 2014 Notes also contain affirmative and negative covenants that, among other things, may limit or restrict our ability to: incur additional debt and issue preferred stock; make certain investments and restricted payments; create liens; create restrictions on distributions from subsidiaries; engage in specified sales of assets and subsidiary stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter new lines of business; engage in consolidation, mergers and acquisitions; and engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions.  

We were in compliance with all debt covenants at October 1, 2011.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements material to our financial position or results of operations. The off-balance sheet arrangements we have are guarantees of debt of outside third parties, including a lease and grower loans, and residual value guarantees covering certain operating leases for various types of equipment. See Note 19: Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of October 1, 2011:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1) In the event of a default on payment, acceleration of the principal payments could occur.  

  (2) Interest payments include interest on all outstanding debt. Payments are estimated for variable rate and variable term debt based on effective rates at October 1, 2011, and expected payment dates.  

  (3) Amounts include guarantees of debt of outside third parties, which consist of a lease and grower loans, all of which are substantially collateralized by the underlying assets, as well as residual value guarantees covering certain operating leases for various types of equipment. The amounts included are the maximum potential amount of future payments.  

  (4) Amounts include minimum lease payments under lease agreements.  

  (5) Amounts include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligations amount included items, such as future purchase commitments for grains, livestock contracts and fixed grower fees that provide terms that meet the above criteria. We have excluded future purchase commitments for contracts that do not meet these criteria. Purchase orders have not been included in the table, as a purchase order is an authorization to purchase and may not be considered an enforceable and legally binding contract. Contracts for goods or services that contain termination clauses without penalty have also been excluded.  

  (6) Amounts include estimated amounts to complete buildings and equipment under construction as of October 1, 2011.  

  (7) Amounts include items that meet the definition of a purchase obligation and are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

31  

Table of Contents 

In addition to the amounts shown above in the table, we have unrecognized tax benefits of $174 million and related interest and penalties of $58 million at October 1, 2011, recorded as liabilities. During fiscal 2012, tax audit resolutions could potentially reduce these amounts by approximately $10 million, either because tax positions are sustained on audit or because we agree to their disallowance.  

The maximum contractual obligation associated with our cash flow assistance programs at October 1, 2011, based on the estimated fair values of the livestock supplier’s net tangible assets on that date, aggregated to approximately $220 million, or approximately $192 million remaining maximum commitment after netting the cash flow assistance related receivables.  

RECENTLY ISSUED/ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS  

Refer to the discussion under Part II, Item 8, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1: Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for recently issued accounting pronouncements and Note 2: Change in Accounting Principles for recently adopted accounting pronouncements.  

32  

Table of Contents 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES  

The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates we consider critical.  

 Description   Judgments and Uncertainties   Effect if Actual Results Differ From

Assumptions 

  Contingent liabilities       

We are subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to wage and hour/labor, environmental, product, taxing authorities and other matters, and are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters, as well as potential ranges of probable losses. 

A determination of the amount of reserves and disclosures required, if any, for these contingencies are made after considerable analysis of each individual issue. We accrue for contingent liabilities when an assessment of the risk of loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. We disclose contingent liabilities when the risk of loss is reasonably possible or probable.   Our contingent liabilities contain uncertainties because the eventual outcome will result from future events, and determination of current reserves requires estimates and judgments related to future changes in facts and circumstances, differing interpretations of the law and assessments of the amount of damages, and the effectiveness of strategies or other factors beyond our control.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our contingent liabilities during the past three fiscal years. 

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our contingent liabilities. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. 

 Marketing and advertising costs       

We incur advertising, retailer incentive and consumer incentive costs to promote products through marketing programs. These programs include cooperative advertising, volume discounts, in-store display incentives, coupons and other programs. 

Marketing and advertising costs are charged in the period incurred. We accrue costs based on the estimated performance, historical utilization and redemption of each program. 

Cash consideration given to customers is considered a reduction in the price of our products, thus recorded as a reduction to sales. The remainder of marketing and advertising costs is recorded as a selling, general and administrative expense.    

Recognition of the costs related to these programs contains uncertainties due to judgment required in estimating the potential performance and redemption of each program. 

These estimates are based on many factors, including experience of similar promotional programs.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our marketing accruals during the past three fiscal years. 

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our marketing accruals. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. 

A 10% change in our marketing accruals at October 1, 2011, would impact pretax earnings by approximately $15 million. 

33  

Table of Contents 

 Description   Judgments and Uncertainties   Effect if Actual Results Differ From

Assumptions 

  Accrued self insurance       

We are self insured for certain losses related to health and welfare, workers’ compensation, auto liability and general liability claims. 

We use an independent third-party actuary to assist in determining our self-insurance liability. We and the actuary consider a number of factors when estimating our self-insurance liability, including claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. 

We periodically review our estimates and assumptions with our third-party actuary to assist us in determining the adequacy of our self-insurance liability. Our policy is to maintain an accrual within the central to high point of the actuarial range.    

Our self-insurance liability contains uncertainties due to assumptions required and judgment used. 

Costs to settle our obligations, including legal and healthcare costs, could increase or decrease causing estimates of our self-insurance liability to change. 

Incident rates, including frequency and severity, could increase or decrease causing estimates in our self-insurance liability to change.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three fiscal years. 

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate our self-insurance liability. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to gains or losses that could be material. 

A 10% increase in the actuarial estimate at October 1, 2011, would not result in a material change in the amount we recorded for our self-insurance liability. A 10% decrease in the actuarial estimate at October 1, 2011, would result in a decrease in the amount we recorded for our self-insurance liability of approximately $23 million. 

 Impairment of long-lived assets       

Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Examples include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which we use a long-lived asset or a change in its physical condition. 

When evaluating long-lived assets for impairment, we compare the carrying value of the asset to the asset’s estimated undiscounted future cash flows. An impairment is indicated if the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying value of the asset. The impairment is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value of the long-lived asset. 

We recorded impairment charges related to long-lived assets of $15 million, $19 million and $25 million, respectively, in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009.   Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties due to judgment in assumptions and estimates surrounding undiscounted future cash flows of the long-lived asset, including forecasting useful lives of assets and selecting the discount rate that reflects the risk inherent in future cash flows to determine fair value.    

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate the impairment of long-lived assets during the last three fiscal years. 

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the estimates or assumptions used to calculate impairments of long-lived assets. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate estimated future cash flows, we may be exposed to impairment losses that could be material. Additionally, we continue to evaluate our future international business strategies, which may expose us to future impairment losses. 

34  

Table of Contents 

 Description   Judgments and Uncertainties   Effect if Actual Results Differ From

Assumptions 

  Income taxes    

We estimate total income tax expense based on statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in various jurisdictions in which we earn income. 

Federal income tax includes an estimate for taxes on earnings of foreign subsidiaries expected to be remitted to the United States and be taxable, but not for earnings considered indefinitely invested in the foreign subsidiary. 

Deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. 

Valuation allowances are recorded when it is likely a tax benefit will not be realized for a deferred tax asset. 

We record unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for known or anticipated tax issues based on our analysis of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due.    

Changes in tax laws and rates could affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. 

Changes in projected future earnings could affect the recorded valuation allowances in the future. 

Our calculations related to income taxes contain uncertainties due to judgment used to calculate tax liabilities in the application of complex tax regulations across the tax jurisdictions where we operate. 

Our analysis of unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties based on judgment used to apply the more likely than not recognition and measurement thresholds.    

We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the tax related balances or valuation allowances. However, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. 

To the extent we prevail in matters for which unrecognized tax benefit liabilities have been established, or are required to pay amounts in excess of our recorded unrecognized tax benefit liabilities, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement would require use of our cash and generally result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement would generally be recognized as a reduction in our effective tax rate in the period of resolution.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets  

Description: Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step is to identify if a potential impairment exists by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered to have a potential impairment and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. However, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is performed to determine if goodwill is impaired and to measure the amount of impairment loss to recognize, if any.  

The second step compares the implied fair value of goodwill with the carrying amount of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill exceeds the carrying amount, then goodwill is not considered impaired. However, if the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  

The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination (i.e., the fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all the assets and liabilities, including any unrecognized intangible assets, as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was determined as the exit price a market participant would pay for the same business).  

For other indefinite life intangible assets, if the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.  

We have elected to make the first day of the fourth quarter the annual impairment assessment date for goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets. However, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets prior to the required annual assessment if, among other things, we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture of a significant component of the business or a sustained decline in market capitalization.  

Judgments and Uncertainties: We estimate the fair value of our reporting units, generally our operating segments, using various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being a discounted cash flow analysis, which uses significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions about sales, operating margins, growth rates and discount rates.  

We include assumptions about sales, operating margins and growth rates which consider our budgets, business plans and economic projections, and are believed to reflect market participant views which would exist in an exit transaction. Assumptions are also made for varying perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term business plan period. Generally, we utilize normalized operating margin assumptions based on future expectations and operating margins historically realized in the reporting units’ industries. For the fiscal 2011 impairment test of material reporting units, only our Domestic Chicken reporting unit utilized operating margins in future years in excess of the operating margin realized in the most recent year.  

Our Domestic Chicken reporting unit had goodwill at October 1, 2011, totaling $900 million or 95% of our Chicken segment’s goodwill. We assumed operating margins in future years would return to our normalized range of 5.0% to 7.0%, as we believe this is consistent with market participant views in an exit transaction. Had we assumed future operating margins consistent with those realized in the current fiscal year, we would have failed the first step of the annual impairment test, which would have required the second step to be performed and may have resulted in a material goodwill impairment loss. The current year Domestic Chicken reporting unit results were not indicative of future market participant expectations in an exit transaction. In assessing the appropriate operating margins to be utilized in estimating the fair value of the Domestic Chicken segment, we considered many factors, including the following:  

   •    The Domestic Chicken segment has realized significant operational improvements, including yield, mix, live production, processing flexibility, and interplant product movements, over the past three years as compared to both historical results and the industry.  

   •    The operational improvements were offset in the current year due to historically high grain and feed ingredient costs coupled with excess supplies, which made it difficult to pass along the increased input costs.  

   •    Recent USDA data indicates eggs sets, broiler chick placements and slaughter pounds are down significantly, which are all strong indicators that supply relative to demand should return to more normalized levels by the end of fiscal 2012, allowing financial results to return to normalized ranges.  

Other indefinite life intangible asset fair values have been calculated for trademarks using a royalty rate method. Assumptions about royalty rates are based on the rates at which similar brands and trademarks are licensed in the marketplace.  

Our impairment analysis contains uncertainties due to uncontrollable events that could positively or negatively impact the anticipated future economic and operating conditions.  

Effect if Actual Results Differ From Assumptions: We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets during the last three years.  

The discount rate used in our annual goodwill impairment test increased to an average of 8.8% in fiscal 2011 from 8.4% in fiscal 2010. There were no significant changes in the other key estimates and assumptions.  

Other than the Beef reporting unit in 2009, no material reporting units failed the first step of the annual goodwill impairment analysis in fiscal 2011, 2010 or 2009 and therefore, the second step was not necessary. In fiscal 2009, we recorded a $560 million partial impairment of our Beef reporting unit’s goodwill, which was driven by an increase in our discount rate used in the 2009 annual goodwill impairment analysis as a result of disruptions in global credit and other financial markets and deterioration of economic conditions. In fiscal 2010, we recorded a $29 million full impairment of an immaterial Chicken segment reporting unit’s goodwill.  

Some of the inherent estimates and assumptions used in determining fair value of the reporting units are outside the control of management, including interest rates, cost of capital, tax rates, and our credit ratings. While we believe we have made reasonable estimates and assumptions to calculate the fair value of the reporting units and other indefinite life intangible assets, it is possible a material change could occur. If our actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions used to calculate fair value, we may be required to perform the second step, which could result in additional material impairments of our goodwill.  

If the Domestic Chicken reporting unit experienced a 15% or more decline in fair value at July 1, 2011, it would have caused the carrying value of the reporting unit to be in excess of fair value, which would have required the second step to be performed. Additionally, valuing the Domestic Chicken reporting unit utilizing projected operating margins averaging less than 4.0%, or a 0.9% increase in the discount rate used in fiscal 2011, would have caused the carrying value of the Domestic Chicken reporting unit to be in excess of fair value, which would have required the second step to be performed. The second step may have resulted in a material goodwill impairment loss. All other material reporting units’ estimated fair value exceeded their carrying value by more than 20%. Consequently, we do not consider any of our other material reporting units at significant risk of failing the first step of the annual goodwill impairment test.  

Our fiscal 2011 other indefinite life intangible asset impairment analysis did not result in a material impairment charge. A hypothetical 20% decrease in the fair value of intangible assets would not result in a material impairment.  

36  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK