Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Our discussion below of our results includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe provide important perspective with respect to underlying business trends. Other than free cash flow, any non-GAAP financial measures will be denoted as adjusted measures and exclude the impact from restructuring costs consisting of (1) expenses associated with our revised business technology strategy announced in fiscal 2016, as a result of which we recorded accelerated depreciation on our then-existing system and incurred costs to convert to a modernized version of our established platform, (2) professional fees related to our three-year strategic plan, (3) restructuring expenses within our Brakes Group operations, and (4) severance charges related to restructuring. Our results of operations are also impacted by the following acquisition-related items: (1) intangible amortization expense, (2) transaction costs, and (3) integration costs. All acquisition-related costs in fiscal 2017 that have been excluded relate to the Brakes Group acquisition (the Brakes Acquisition). Sysco’s results of operations are also impacted by multiemployer pension (MEPP) withdrawal charges. Fiscal 2016 acquisition-related costs, however, include (i) Brakes Acquisition related costs, (ii) 

19

termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods, Inc. (US Foods) and (iii) financing costs related to the senior notes that were issued in fiscal 2015 to fund the proposed US Foods merger. These senior notes were redeemed in the first quarter of fiscal 2016, triggering a redemption loss of $86.5 million, and we incurred interest on these notes through the redemption date. The Brakes Acquisition also resulted in non-recurring tax expense in fiscal 2017, primarily from non-deductible transaction costs. Additionally, our results of operations were impacted by multiemployer pension plan withdrawal costs in fiscal 2017. These fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 items are collectively referred to as "Certain Items," and they have been excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures. With respect to the adjusted return on invested capital targets, our invested capital is adjusted for the accumulation of debt incurred for the Brakes Acquisition that would not have been borrowed absent this acquisition.

Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 1, 2017 for fiscal 2017, a 53-week year ending July 2, 2016 for fiscal 2016, and a 52-week year ending June 27, 2015 for fiscal 2015. Because fiscal 2017 contained one fewer week as compared to fiscal 2016, our Consolidated Results of Operations for fiscal 2017 are not directly comparable to the prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2016 Consolidated Results of Operations for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. Sysco’s results of operations and related metrics within this section will be disclosed on both a 52-week and 53-week basis for fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016. This is calculated by deducting one-fourteenth of the total metric for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016.

Any metric within this section referred to as “adjusted” will reflect the applicable impact of both Certain Items and the extra week in fiscal 2016. More information on the rationale for the use of these measures and reconciliations to GAAP numbers can be found under “Non-GAAP Reconciliations.”

Overview

Sysco distributes food and related products to restaurants, healthcare and educational facilities, lodging establishments and other foodservice customers. Our primary operations are located in North America and Europe. The company has aggregated certain of its operating segments into three reportable segments. “Other” financial information is attributable to the company’s other operating segments that do not meet the quantitative disclosure thresholds.

•U.S. Foodservice Operations - primarily includes U.S. Broadline, custom-cut meat and seafood companies, FreshPoint (our specialty produce companies) and European Imports (a specialty import company);

•International Foodservice Operations - primarily includes broadline operations in Canada and Europe (including the Brakes Group, which was acquired in fiscal 2017), Bahamas, Mexico, Costa Rica and Panama, as well as a company that distributes to international customers;

•SYGMA - our customized distribution subsidiary; and

•Other - primarily our hotel supply operations and Sysco Labs, which includes our suite of technology solutions that help support the business needs of our customers and provides support for some of our business technology needs.

Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both traditional and chain restaurant customers, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served. SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations.

We estimate that we serve approximately 16% of the $280 billion annual foodservice market in the United States (U.S.) based on industry data obtained from Technomic, Inc. From time to time, Technomic may revise the methodology used to calculate the size of the foodservice market and, as a result, our percentage can change not only from our sales results, but also from such revisions. We also serve certain international geographies that vary in size and amount of market share.

According to industry sources, the foodservice, or food-away-from-home, market represents approximately 51% of the total dollars spent on food purchases made at the consumer level in the U.S. as of the end of calendar 2016. Industry sources estimate the total foodservice market in the U.S. experienced a real sales increase of approximately 1.4% in calendar year 2016 and 2.3% in calendar year 2015. Real sales changes do not include the impact of inflation or deflation.

Acquisition of Brakes Group

On July 5, 2016, Sysco consummated its acquisition of Cucina Lux Investments Limited (a private company limited by shares organized under the laws of England and Wales), a holding company of the Brakes Group, pursuant to an agreement for the sale and purchase of securities in the capital of the Brakes Group, dated as of February 19, 2016 (the Purchase Agreement), 

20

by and among Sysco, entities affiliated with Bain Capital Investors, LLC, and members of management of the Brakes Group. Following the closing of the Brakes Acquisition, the Brakes Group became a wholly owned subsidiary of Sysco.

The Brakes Group is a large European foodservice business, supplying fresh, refrigerated and frozen food products, as well as non-food products and supplies, to foodservice customers. The Brakes Group’s largest businesses are in the United Kingdom (U.K.), France, and Sweden, in addition to a presence in Ireland, Belgium, Spain, and Luxembourg. The Brakes Acquisition significantly strengthens Sysco’s position as the global leader in selling, marketing and distributing food products and offers attractive opportunities for organic growth and future expansion in European markets.

Highlights and Trends

Comparison of results from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2016:

•Sales:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦adjusted sales, on a comparable 52-week basis and excluding Brakes, increased 1.6%;

•Operating income:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦adjusted operating income, on a comparable 52-week basis and excluding Brakes, increased 12.4%;

•Net earnings:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦adjusted net earnings, on a comparable 52-week basis and excluding Brakes, increased 8.0%;

•Basic earnings per share:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Diluted earnings per share:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” for an explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures.

The general foodservice market environment since the beginning of fiscal 2017 has reflected a modestly growing U.S. economy, disparate regional economic conditions in Canada, and mixed economic backdrops in the U.K., Ireland, France and Sweden. While we continue to transition some large contract customers in our U.S. Foodservice Operations, our case growth with local customers in that business segment improved during the second half of the year. Favorable consumer confidence throughout much of the U.S. contributed to restaurant check size increases, even though year-over-year traffic trends were unfavorable in certain customer segments. Throughout fiscal 2017, we provided our customers with excellent service, delivered case growth through a focus on local customers, improved our gross profit dollars and effectively managed overall expenses. These are all important steps towards achieving our three-year plan financial objectives. We also completed the Brakes Acquisition, which added positively to our results.

Our sales and gross profit performance can be influenced by multiple factors including price, volume and product mix. The modest level of growth in the foodservice market has created additional competitive pricing pressures, which can impact our profitability. The majority of our sales are to locally managed customers and multi-unit customers. Our locally managed customers, including independent restaurant customers, comprise a greater percentage of our profitability as compared to multi-unit customers. Case growth with our locally managed broadline business is important to drive gross profit dollar growth. Our sales to multi-unit customers, including chain restaurants and multi-locational restaurants, also comprise a significant portion of our overall volumes. Gross margin on sales to our multi-unit customers is generally lower than on sales to other types of customers due to the higher volumes we sell to these customers. In fiscal 2017, we grew our cases with local customers; however, case growth for our multi-unit customers declined due in part to our efforts to deliver disciplined, profitable growth. We will continue to focus on local customer growth by providing value through innovative product offerings and value-added services, along with improved e-commerce capabilities. We also expect case growth trends for multi-unit customers to begin to improve as we progress through fiscal 2018. We offer an assortment of Sysco-branded products that we can differentiate from privately branded products, which enables us to achieve higher gross profits. As a result, we focus on sales growth for these products, especially with locally managed customers. Inflation is a factor that contributes to the level of sales and gross profit growth and can be a factor that contributes 

21

to gross margin pressure. We experienced deflation at a rate of 0.6% for fiscal 2017. Deflation in fiscal 2017 occurred primarily in the meat, dairy and produce categories, partially offset by modest inflation in other categories. We saw modest overall inflation during the last quarter of the year, driven by poultry, produce, dairy and seafood categories. We expect inflation to continue for the balance of calendar 2017. Periods of high inflation, either overall or in certain product categories, can have an unfavorable effect on us and our customers, as high food costs can be difficult to pass on to our customers. 

We have experienced higher operating expenses in fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016, that are attributable to higher case volumes and the addition of the Brakes Group. While these costs are increasing, certain of our expenses declined, including fuel costs attributable to lower fuel prices in fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016. We expect operating expenses to increase in fiscal 2018, primarily driven by anticipated growth in case volume. We also expect transportation costs to increase due to higher fuel prices. We intend to make increased investments in the sales team, which will drive local case growth. We have also incurred Certain Items in fiscal 2017 for restructuring costs, currently consisting of the impact of changes to our business technology strategy, restructuring expenses within our Brakes Group operations, professional fees incurred related to our three-year strategic plan, and severance charges. Additionally, we incurred costs associated with a withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan in fiscal 2017. 

During the year, Brakes performed reasonably well amidst a challenging environment in the U.K., exceeding our expectations for earnings per share accretion by contributing $0.09 per share for fiscal 2017. On an adjusted basis, our Brakes Group operations contributed approximately $0.14 per share to our adjusted consolidated earnings per share for fiscal 2017. The Brakes Group is progressing in its supply chain transformational efforts as it moves to multi-temperature capability across the U.K. Growth in France remains steady. Additionally we continue to see long term opportunities for growth across our new European business. See “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” for an explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures.

Strategy

We are focused on optimizing our core foodservice business through our customer centric strategy with a “One Sysco” approach that is being executed at a high level and that positions us to deliver disciplined, profitable and sustainable growth moving forward. We aspire to be the most valued and trusted business partner for all of our customers and are committed to delivering on our targeted financial objectives for Sysco’s shareholders. We will continue to develop and refine current key strategic initiatives, such as category management, revenue management, enhanced customer facing technology and multiple productivity improvement measures, in our ongoing effort to create competitive advantage. We will do this by deepening our customer insight work, continually enhancing our technology capabilities and by attracting and developing highly capable and increasingly diverse leaders and associates. We have identified five components of our strategy to help us achieve our mission and vision as follows:

•Partnership - Profoundly enrich the experience of doing business with Sysco: Our primary focus is to help our customers succeed. We believe that by building on our current competitive advantages, we will be able to further differentiate our offering to customers. Our competitive advantages include our marketing associates; our diversified product base, which includes quality-assured Sysco brand products; the suite of services we provide to our customers such as business reviews and menu analysis; and our multi-regional presence in North America and Europe. In addition, we have a portfolio of businesses spanning broadline, chain restaurant distribution, specialty produce, specialty meat, hotel amenities, specialty import and export which serves our customers’ needs across a wide array of business segments. We believe this strategy of enriching the experience of doing business with Sysco will increase customer retention and profitably accelerate sales growth with both existing and new customers.

•Productivity - Continuously improve productivity in all areas of our business: We continually strive to improve productivity and improve cost management. From modernizing software systems to leveraging the power of our end-to-end supply chain, we continue to invest in ways to improve our service to our customers.

•Products - Enhance our portfolio of products and services by initiating a customer-centric innovation program: We continually explore opportunities to provide new and improved products, technologies and services to our customers. 

•People - Leverage talent, structure, and culture to drive performance: Our ability to drive results and grow our business is directly linked to having the best talent in the industry. We are committed to the continued enhancement of our talent management programs in terms of how we recruit, select, train and develop our associates throughout Sysco, as well as succession planning. Our ultimate objective is to provide all of our associates with an inclusive environment and outstanding opportunities for professional growth and career development.

•Portfolio - Explore, assess and pursue new businesses and markets: This strategy is focused on identifying opportunities to expand within our core business, which could include growth in new international markets, and in adjacent areas that complement our core foodservice distribution business. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, 

22

we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, joint ventures and sales of assets and businesses.

In fiscal 2016, we set three-year financial targets to be achieved by the end of fiscal 2018:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Grow adjusted earnings per share faster than operating income; and

•Achieve 15% in return on invested capital improvement for existing businesses.

Because our original targets were set without the contemplation of the Brakes Acquisition, our Brakes Group operations are not included in our adjusted operating income improvement or earnings per share goals.

The key strategic levers of our three-year plan include delivering accelerated case growth through a focus on local customers, growing gross profit dollars and managing overall expenses. Our strategic focus on accelerating growth with local customers utilizes an insights-based, customer-centric approach that permeates everything we do. We have improved the capabilities of our sales force through investments made in training, technology and targeted specialized resources and, as a result, our marketing associates are spending more time working with our customers on value-added activities and consultative services, such as menu analysis, inventory management, and business reviews. These services foster a deeper relationship with our customers and further enforces the role that the sales force plays in helping our customers succeed. We have seen improvements in our return on invested capital, as net working capital performance continues to improve, driven by improvements in payables, receivables and inventory. 

During fiscal 2017, we delivered the following results against these objectives, as compared to fiscal 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Over this two-year period since establishing our three-year financial targets, we have grown our operating income by $823.8 million and our adjusted operating income by $416.9 million. The difference between our reported amount and adjusted amount includes the impact of the Brakes Acquisition. Additionally, our operating income goal was established on an adjusted basis given Certain Item charges that were applicable in fiscal 2015, which were primarily due to termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods and financing costs related to the senior notes that were issued in fiscal 2015 to fund the proposed US Foods merger. We expect to continue to drive leverage between gross profit growth and expense growth and believe that we will achieve the high end of our $600 million to $650 million adjusted operating income goal.

See “Non-GAAP Reconciliations” for an explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures.

23

Results of Operations

The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage of sales for the periods indicated:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth the change in the components of our consolidated results of operations expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the comparable period in the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Segment Results

We have aggregated certain of our operating segments into three reportable segments. “Other” financial information is attributable to the company’s other operating segments that do not meet the quantitative disclosure thresholds. 

•U.S. Foodservice Operations - primarily includes U.S. Broadline operations, custom-cut meat and seafood companies, FreshPoint (our specialty produce companies) and European Imports (a specialty import company);

•International Foodservice Operations - includes broadline operations in Canada and Europe, including the Brakes Group (which was acquired in fiscal 2017), Bahamas, Mexico, Costa Rica and Panama, as well as a company that distributes to international customers;

•SYGMA - our customized distribution subsidiary; and

•Other - primarily our hotel supply operations and our Sysco Ventures platform, which includes our suite of technology solutions that help support the business needs of our customers.

24

Broadline operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to both traditional and chain restaurant customers, hospitals, schools, hotels, industrial caterers and other venues where foodservice products are served. SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations.

Management evaluates the performance of each of our operating segments based on its respective operating income results. Corporate expenses generally include all expenses of the corporate office and Sysco’s shared services center. These also include all share-based compensation costs. While a segment’s operating income may be impacted in the short-term by increases or decreases in gross profits, expenses, or a combination thereof, over the long-term, each business segment is expected to increase its operating income at a greater rate than sales growth. This is consistent with our long-term goal of leveraging earnings growth at a greater rate than sales growth.

The following represents our results by reportable segments, and also demonstrates the impact of the Brakes Group's results on our international foodservice operations segment:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

NM represent that the percentage change is not meaningful.

25

Based on information in Note 21, "Business Segment Information" in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, U.S. Foodservice Operations and International Foodservice Operations represented approximately 67.9% and 19.2%, respectively, of Sysco’s overall sales. In fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, U.S. Foodservice Operations and International Foodservice Operations collectively represented approximately 91.0% and 7.6%, respectively, of the total segment operating income. This illustrates that these segments represent a substantial majority of our total segment results when compared to other reportable segments.

Cost of sales primarily includes our product costs, net of vendor consideration, and includes in-bound freight. Operating expenses include the costs of facilities, product handling, delivery, selling and general and administrative activities. Fuel surcharges are reflected within sales and gross profit; fuel costs are reflected within operating expenses.

Results of U.S. Foodservice Operations

In fiscal 2017, the U.S. Foodservice Operations operating results represented approximately 67.9% of Sysco’s overall sales and 91.0% of the aggregated operating income of Sysco’s reporting segments. There are several factors that contribute to these higher operating results as compared to the other operating segments. We have invested substantial amounts in assets, operating methods, technology and management expertise in this segment. The breadth of its sales force, geographic reach of its distribution area and its purchasing power enable this segment to generate its relatively stronger results of operations.

The following tables set forth a summary of the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

The following table sets forth the percentage and dollar value increase or decrease in sales over the prior year in order to demonstrate the cause and magnitude of change.

26

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Case volume excludes the volume impact from our custom-cut meat and seafood companies that do not measure volume in cases. Any impact in volumes from these operations are included within "Other".

Sales were 0.5% lower in fiscal 2017 than in fiscal 2016. The largest driver of the 0.5% decrease was the extra week in fiscal 2016, which we estimate contributed 0.8% of the sales decline in fiscal 2017. Case volumes for the company’s U.S. Broadline operations including acquisitions within the last 12 months declined 1.0% in fiscal 2017 compared to fiscal 2016. We estimate that the extra week contributed 2.0% of the 1.0% case decline. Absent the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2016, case volume grew primarily from locally managed customers. Other items impacting the change in sales, but to a lesser extent, were pricing management of product cost deflation and product mix.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Case volume excludes the volume impact from our custom-cut meat and seafood companies that do not measure volume in cases. Any impact in volumes from these operations are included within "Other."

Sales for fiscal 2016 were 4.6% higher than fiscal 2015. The largest drivers of the increases were case volume growth, an extra week in fiscal 2016 and sales from acquisitions that occurred within fiscal 2016.

Operating Income

Operating income increased by 4.3% in fiscal 2017 over fiscal 2016, primarily due to our gross profits growing at a faster pace than operating expenses. Higher gross profits were achieved as we managed the deflationary environment in the first part of the year and operating expense increases were limited, reflecting favorable expense management. We estimate that the extra week in fiscal 2016 partially offset, by 2.0%, the year-over-year operating income growth.

Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016, primarily due to effective management of deflation, a more beneficial mix of local customer case growth and increased sales of Sysco branded products to local customers. Our case growth for Sysco branded sales to local customers increased 62 basis points for fiscal 2017. The change in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, was estimated as deflation of 0.4% during fiscal 2017 for our U.S. Broadline operations. Deflation in fiscal 2017 occurred primarily in the meat, dairy and produce categories, partially offset by modest inflation in other categories.

Operating expenses increased in 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016, primarily due to costs associated with multiemployer pension plan withdrawal costs in fiscal 2017 and indirect spend. These increases were partially offset by the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2016, reduced fuel costs and pay-related expenses. Indirect spend includes costs such as fleet maintenance and 

27

supplies. For our U.S. Broadline operations, our cost per case and adjusted cost per case increased $0.02 per case and decreased $0.01 per case, respectively, in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016. The decrease on an adjusted basis reflects improved productivity in the warehouse and execution of our functional standard organizational design, including a solid territory planning effort in sales. The portion of the decrease attributable to lower fuel prices was a $0.02 benefit per case. Additionally, the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2016 was not large enough to produce a different result on a 52-week basis.

Operating income increased by 11.2% in fiscal 2016 over fiscal 2015, primarily due to the extra week in fiscal 2016 and higher gross profits, partially offset by higher operating expenses attributable to higher case volumes. We estimate that the extra week contributed 2.3% of the 11.2% operating income growth. Our gross profit grew at a faster pace than operating expenses, reflecting favorable expense management.

Gross profit dollars increased in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015 primarily due to the extra week in fiscal 2016, sales volumes, including a more beneficial mix of local customer case growth, higher sales of Sysco branded products to local customers, benefits of category management and revenue management and effective management of deflation. Our focus on center of plate categories, such as beef, pork and poultry, and our emphasis on fresh produce helped drive gross profit growth. Our case growth for Sysco brand sales to local customers increased 82 basis points for fiscal 2016. The change in product costs, an internal measure of inflation or deflation, was estimated as deflation of 0.9% during fiscal 2016 for our U.S. Broadline operations. Deflation in fiscal 2016 occurred primarily in the meat, seafood, dairy and poultry categories for both periods, partially offset by modest inflation in other categories.

Operating expenses increased in 2016, as compared to fiscal 2015, primarily due to the extra week in fiscal 2016 and expenses attributable to higher case volumes. These increases were partially offset by reduced indirect spend and fuel costs and administrative expense. Indirect spend includes costs such as fleet maintenance and supplies. For our U.S. Broadline operations, our cost per case and adjusted cost per case decreased $0.04 per case in fiscal 2016 as compared to the corresponding periods of fiscal 2015. The decrease reflects progress in productivity improvements and cost reductions in our supply chain including reduced fuel costs and indirect spend. The decrease attributable to lower fuel prices was a $0.04 benefit per case. Adjustments to operating expenses were not large enough to produce a different result on an adjusted cost per case basis for fiscal 2016. Additionally, the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2016 was not large enough to produce a different result on a 52-week basis.

Results of International Foodservice Operations

In fiscal 2017, the International Foodservice Operations operating results represented approximately 19.2% of Sysco’s overall sales and 7.6% of the aggregated operating income of Sysco’s segments, which excludes corporate expenses and adjustments. 

The following tables set forth a summary of the components of operating income and adjusted operating income expressed as a percentage increase or decrease over the prior year:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

28

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales

The following table sets forth the percentage and dollar value increase or decrease in sales over the comparable prior year period in order to demonstrate the cause and magnitude of change.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The impact of the Brakes Acquisition is included within this line only.

Sales were 95.2% higher in fiscal 2017 than in fiscal 2016. The increase for fiscal 2017 was primarily due to the acquisition of the Brakes Group, which added $5.2 billion during the year. The increase was partially offset by the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2016, a small decline in case volume, primarily in Canada, and unfavorable changes in exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars. We had a modest decrease in sales in Canada due to softer market conditions. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales were 2.8% lower in fiscal 2016 than in fiscal 2015. The decrease for fiscal 2016 was primarily due to unfavorable changes in exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars, partially offset by the extra week within fiscal 2016. The consolidation of our joint venture in Mexico in the last half of fiscal 2016 also partially offset lower sales.

29

Operating Income

Operating income increased by 37.2% in fiscal 2017 from fiscal 2016, primarily attributable to the Brakes Acquisition. The Brakes Group is progressing in its supply chain transformational efforts as it moves to multi-temperature capability across the U.K. Growth in France remains steady. Excluding the Brakes Group, non-GAAP operating income, adjusted for the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2016, increased 11.7% in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016, primarily from managing costs effectively in Canada within a deflationary and somewhat softer market environment. Our joint venture in Costa Rica also experienced improved operating income performance. 

Gross profit dollars increased $1.3 billion in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016, primarily due to the Brakes Acquisition. Adjusted gross profit dollars, excluding the impact of Brakes and on a comparable 52 week basis, increased 2.4%. Adjusted gross profit dollar growth was higher due to improved sales execution and implementation of our customer focused initiatives, such as category management and revenue management in our Canadian operations.

Operating expenses increased $1.3 billion in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016, largely due to the Brakes Acquisition. Adjusted operating expenses excluding Brakes were flat in fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016, as a result of our effectively managing costs by streamlining administrative expenses to improve productivity in the Canadian business.

Operating income increased by 3.7% in fiscal 2016 from fiscal 2015, primarily driven by improved operating performance, in addition to the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2016. 

Gross profit dollars decreased 3.1%, while operating expenses decreased 4.6% in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. Gross profit dollar growth was higher due to stronger relative mix of sales for our locally managed customers and case growth primarily in our Canadian operations; however, these improvements were more than offset by unfavorable changes in exchange rates used to translate our gross profit into U.S. dollars.

Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2016 largely due to reduced general and administrative costs in our Canadian operations, in addition to the favorable impact of changes in exchange rates used to translate our operating expenses into U.S. dollars.

Results of SYGMA and Other Segment

SYGMA operating companies distribute a full line of food products and a wide variety of non-food products to certain chain restaurant customer locations.

Sales

Sales were 1.3% higher in fiscal 2017 than in fiscal 2016. The increase for fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to case growth. Case growth was primarily the result of increased volume from existing customers, with additional new business also contributing to such growth.

Sales were 0.4% higher in fiscal 2016 than in fiscal 2015. The increase for fiscal 2016 was primarily due to the extra week within fiscal 2016, organic customer growth and the addition of new customers. Partially offsetting these increases were lost and strategically resigned business, product cost deflation and lower fuel surcharges. 

Operating Income

Operating income decreased by 15.2% in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016, primarily driven by operating expense growth exceeding gross profit dollar growth. Gross profit dollars increased 3.3%, while operating expenses increased 4.5% in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016. Gross profit dollar growth was lower due to higher product margins. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2017 largely due to higher pay-related expenses.

Operating income increased by 34.8% in fiscal 2016 from fiscal 2015, primarily driven by improved operating performance in addition to the impact of the extra week in fiscal 2016. Gross profit dollars decreased 3.2%, while operating expenses decreased 4.9% in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. Gross profit dollar growth was lower due to lower product margins and reduced fuel surcharges. Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2016 largely due to reduced transportation costs reflecting improved retention of drivers and lower fuel costs. Both transportation and warehouse costs, including pay-related expenses, improved from improved expense management and improved productivity.

30

“Other” segment information is attributable to the company’s other operating segments that do not meet the quantitative disclosure thresholds, primarily including our hotel supply operations and Sysco Labs, which includes our suite of technology solutions that help support the business needs of our customers and provides support for some of our business technology needs.

Operating income decreased 37.8%, or $12.3 million, in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016. The decrease was primarily attributable to the extra week applicable to fiscal 2016, partially offset by favorable results from our hotel supply operations.

Operating income increased 22.5%, or $6.0 million, in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. The increase was primarily attributable to the extra week applicable to fiscal 2016 and favorable results from our hotel supply operations.

Corporate Expenses

Corporate expenses in fiscal 2017 decreased $33.5 million, or 2.9%, as compared to fiscal 2016, due primarily to lower pay-related expenses, partially offset by an increase in our estimates for our reserves for our self-insurance program (which covers portions of workers’ compensation, general and vehicle liability), resulting from wage increases and unfavorable claims developments.

Included in corporate expenses are Certain Items that totaled $159.2 million in fiscal 2017, as compared to $146.2 million in fiscal 2016. Certain Items impacting fiscal 2017 were primarily expenses associated with our revised business technology strategy announced in fiscal 2016, as a result of which we recorded accelerated depreciation on our existing system and incurred expenses of $111.3 million in fiscal 2017 to convert to a modernized version of our established platform. We incurred $48.0 million in expenses in fiscal 2017 related to Brakes Acquisition transaction costs, project costs to convert to a modernized version of our established platform in conjunction with our revised business technology strategy, professional fees on 3-year financial objectives, and severance charges. 

Corporate expenses in fiscal 2016 decreased $323.1 million or 21.8%, as compared to fiscal 2015, due primarily to the decrease in Certain Items. Certain Items for fiscal 2016 primarily related to costs associated with our revised business technology strategy, Brakes Acquisition transaction costs, professional fees on our three-year financial objectives and severance charges. Certain Items for fiscal 2015 consisted of $554.7 million related to integration planning and transaction costs incurred in conjunction with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods, including termination costs.

Interest Expense

Interest expense decreased $3.3 million for fiscal 2017, as compared to fiscal 2016 due to Certain Item interest costs specific to fiscal 2016, partially offset by higher relative debt levels in fiscal 2017. Fiscal 2016 included a loss of $86.5 million in connection with the redemption of the notes issued in fiscal 2015 to fund the merger that was proposed with US Foods. These items, along with interest expense incurred in fiscal 2016 through the date the senior notes were redeemed and interest cost incurred from financing the Brakes Acquisition, are included in our Certain Items. Excluding Certain Items, our interest expense increased $120.7 million for fiscal 2017 from fiscal 2016 due to higher debt balances from senior notes that were issued in fiscal 2016 and commercial paper borrowings issued in fiscal 2017.

Interest expense increased $51.3 million for fiscal 2016, as compared to fiscal 2015, primarily due to the redemption of the senior notes issued in fiscal 2015 to fund the merger that had been proposed with US Foods. These senior notes were redeemed in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and triggered a redemption loss of $86.5 million. This increase was partially offset by lower average debt levels in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. We incurred interest costs from financing the Brakes Acquisition in the last half of fiscal 2016. In fiscal 2015, we incurred interest costs related to the proposed merger with US Foods. Interest costs related to these proposed acquisitions, as well as the redemption costs noted above are considered Certain Items. Our interest expense, excluding Certain Items, increased $61.8 million as compared to fiscal 2015, due to higher borrowing levels from senior notes that were issued in fiscal 2016 primarily for our accelerated share repurchase program.

Net Earnings

Net earnings increased 20.3% in fiscal 2017 as compared to the prior year due primarily to the items noted above, as well as items impacting our income taxes that are discussed in Note 19, "Income Taxes." Adjusted net earnings increased 11.9% in fiscal 2017, primarily due to strong local case growth, gross profit growth with margin expansion, strong expense management and the results of the Brakes Group, partially offset by increased interest expense, which resulted in earnings growth that was lower than our operating income growth. Adjusted net earnings, on a comparable 52-week basis and excluding Brakes, increased 8.0% in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016.

31

Net earnings increased 38.3% in fiscal 2016 from fiscal 2015 due primarily to the items noted above and the beneficial impact from the favorable resolution of tax contingencies. Items impacting our income taxes from effective tax rates are discussed in Note 19, "Income Taxes." Adjusted net earnings increased 8.0% in fiscal 2016 primarily from gross profit growth, strong expense management and the favorable resolutions of tax contingencies. An additional unfavorable impact on our net earnings and adjusted net earnings resulted from the strengthening U.S. dollar, which reduced both amounts by $11.5 million for fiscal 2016 as we converted foreign earnings to U.S. dollars.

Earnings Per Share

Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2017 were $2.10, a 26.5% increase from the comparable prior year amount of $1.66 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2017 were $2.08, a 26.8% increase from the fiscal 2016 amount of $1.64 per share. Adjusted diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2017 were $2.48, an 18.1% increase from the fiscal 2016 amount of $2.10 per share. Adjusted diluted earnings per share, on a comparable 52-week basis and excluding Brakes, were $2.34, a 13.6% increase from the fiscal 2016 amount of $2.06 per share. These results were primarily attributable to the factors discussed above related to net earnings and a decrease in outstanding shares that resulted from our share repurchases in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016.

Basic earnings per share in fiscal 2016 were $1.66, a 43.1% increase from the fiscal 2015 amount of $1.16 per share. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2016 were $1.64, a 42.6% increase from the fiscal 2015 amount of $1.15. Adjusted diluted earnings per share in fiscal 2016 were $2.06, a 12.0% increase from the fiscal 2015 amount of $1.84. These results were primarily due to the factors discussed above related to net earnings and a decrease in outstanding shares that resulted from our accelerated share repurchase program.

Non-GAAP Reconciliations

Sysco’s consolidated results of operations are impacted by restructuring costs consisting of (1) expenses associated with our revised business technology strategy announced in fiscal 2016, as a result of which we recorded accelerated depreciation on our prior ERP system and incurred costs to convert to a modernized version of our established platform, (2) professional fees related to our three-year strategic plan, (3) restructuring expenses within our Brakes Group operations, and (4) severance charges related to restructuring. Our results of operations are also impacted by the following acquisition-related items: (1) intangible amortization expense, (2) transaction costs, and (3) integration costs. All acquisition-related costs in fiscal 2017 that have been excluded relate to the Brakes Acquisition. Additionally, our results of operations were impacted by multiemployer pension plan withdrawal costs in fiscal 2017. Fiscal 2016 acquisition-related costs, however, include (i) Brakes Acquisition related costs, (ii) termination costs in connection with the merger that had been proposed with US Foods, Inc. (US Foods) and (iii) financing costs related to the senior notes that were issued in fiscal 2015 to fund the proposed US Foods merger. These senior notes were redeemed in the first quarter of fiscal 2016, triggering a redemption loss of $86.5 million, and we incurred interest on these notes through the redemption date. The Brakes Acquisition also resulted in non-recurring tax expense in fiscal 2017, primarily from non-deductible transaction costs. These fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016 items are collectively referred to as "Certain Items."

Management believes that adjusting its operating expenses, operating income, operating margin as a percentage of sales, interest expense, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to remove these Certain Items provides an important perspective with respect to our underlying business trends and results and provides meaningful supplemental information to both management and investors that (1) is indicative of the performance of the company's underlying operations and facilitates comparisons on a year-over-year basis and (2) removes those items that are difficult to predict and are often unanticipated, and which as a result, are difficult to include in analysts' financial models and our investors' expectations with any degree of specificity. Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending June 27, 2017 for fiscal 2017 and a 53-week year ending July 2, 2016 for fiscal 2016. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 contained an additional week as compared to fiscal 2017, our Consolidated Results of Operations for fiscal 2017, and any related case growth metrics, are not directly comparable to the prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2016 results for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, the case growth and operating metrics for fiscal 2017 presented in the tables below reflect a comparison to fiscal 2016 as adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total metric for the fourth quarter. Failure to make these adjustments causes the year-over-year changes in these metrics to be understated.

Although Sysco has a history of growth through acquisitions, the Brakes Group is significantly larger than the companies historically acquired by Sysco, with a proportionately greater impact on Sysco’s consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, Sysco is also excluding from certain of its non-GAAP financial measures for the relevant periods, solely those acquisition costs specific to the Brakes Acquisition. We believe this approach significantly enhances the comparability of Sysco’s adjusted results for fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015. As the Brakes Acquisition took place at the beginning of fiscal 2017, and given the significance of the Brakes Acquisition, management believes that presenting Sysco’s adjusted financial measures, excluding the Brakes Group operating results (including, for this purpose, Brakes Group financing costs, which are not included in the Brakes Group GAAP 

32

operating results and are also not Certain Items), enhances comparability of the period over period financial performance of Sysco’s legacy business and allows investors to more effectively measure Sysco’s progress against the financial goals under Sysco’s three-year strategic plan.

Sysco’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to June 30th. This resulted in a 52-week year ending July 1, 2017 for fiscal 2017 and a 53-week year ending July 2, 2016 for fiscal 2016. Because the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 contained an additional week as compared to fiscal 2017, our consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2017 are not directly comparable to the prior year. Management believes that adjusting the fiscal 2016 consolidated results of operations for the estimated impact of the additional week provides more comparable financial results on a year-over-year basis. As a result, the metrics from the consolidated results of operations for fiscal 2016 presented in the table below are adjusted by one-fourteenth of the total metric for the fourth quarter. Failure to make these adjustments causes the year-over-year changes in certain metrics such as sales, operating expenses, operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share to be understated, whereas in certain cases, a metric may actually have increased on a more comparable year-over-year basis.

The company uses these non-GAAP measures when evaluating its financial results, as well as for internal planning and forecasting purposes. These financial measures should not be used as a substitute for GAAP measures in assessing the company’s results of operations for periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. As a result, in the table below, each period presented is adjusted for the impact described above. In the table below, individual components of diluted earnings per share may not add to the total presented due to rounding. Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated using adjusted net earnings divided by diluted shares outstanding. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

33

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

34

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Fiscal 2017 includes $111 million in accelerated depreciation associated with our revised business technology strategy and $46 million related to professional fees on 3-year financial objectives, restructuring expenses within our Brakes operations, costs to convert to legacy systems in conjunction with our revised business technology strategy and severance charges related to restructuring.

(2) Fiscal 2017 includes $76 million related to intangible amortization expense from the Brakes Acquisition, which is included in the results of Brakes and $24 million in transaction costs. Fiscal 2016 includes US Foods merger termination costs.

(3) Includes Brakes Acquisition restructuring charges.

(4) Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not add to the total presented due to rounding. Total diluted earnings per share is calculated using adjusted net earnings divided by diluted shares outstanding.

(5) The tax impact of adjustments for Certain Items are calculated by multiplying the pretax impact of each Certain Item by the statutory rates in effect for each jurisdiction where the Certain Item was incurred. The adjustments also include $7 million in non-deductible transaction costs and $4 million in other one-time costs related to the Brakes Acquisition.

35

(6) Sysco Corporation issued debt to fund the Acquisition. The interest expense arising from the debt issued is attributed to the incremental impact of Brakes operating results, even though it is not a direct obligation of the Brakes Group and is not considered a Certain Item.

NM represents that the percentage change is not meaningful.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

36

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes severance charges, professional fees on 3-year strategic plan financial objectives, facility closure costs and costs associated with our revised business technology strategy.

(2) Includes US Foods merger and integration planning and transaction costs (first quarter fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 only) and Brakes Acquisition transaction costs (third and fourth quarter fiscal 2016 only).

(3) Includes US Foods financing costs (first quarter 2016 and fiscal 2015 only) and Brakes Acquisition financing costs (third and fourth quarter fiscal 2016 only).

(4) The tax impact of adjustments for Certain Items are calculated based on jurisdiction by multiplying the pretax impact of each Certain Item by the statutory rates in effect for each jurisdiction. As a result, the effective rate for each Certain Item may differ based on the jurisdiction where the Certain Item was incurred.

(5) Individual components of diluted earnings per share may not add to the total presented due to rounding. Total diluted earnings per share is calculated using adjusted net earnings divided by diluted shares outstanding.

NM represents that the percentage change is not meaningful.

Set forth below is a reconciliation by segment of actual operating expenses and operating income to adjusted results for these measures for the periods presented:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

37

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

38

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Fiscal 2017 includes Brakes Acquisition-related restructuring charges and other severance charges related to restructuring.

(2) Fiscal 2017 includes $76 million related to intangible amortization expense from the Brakes Acquisition, which is included in the results of the Brakes Group.

NM represents that the percentage change is not meaningful.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

39

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes severance charges, professional fees on 3-year financial objectives, facility closure costs and costs associated with our revised business technology strategy.

NM represents that the percentage change is not meaningful.

Case Growth

Case growth is impacted by the extra week in fiscal 2016. This amount is adjusted out of case growth measures to remove the extra week for comparability purposes for the same underlying reasons the extra week is excluded from the measures presented above. The table that follows provides a reconciliation of case growth to remove the impact of the extra week.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Adjusted Cost per Case

Cost per case is an important metric management uses to measure our expense performance. This metric is calculated by dividing the total operating expense of our U.S. Broadline companies by the number of cases sold. Adjusted cost per case is calculated similarly; however, the operating expense component excludes Certain Items applicable to these companies, prior to dividing by the number of cases sold. In fiscal 2017, the U.S. Broadline operations represented approximately 92% of the U.S. Foodservice Operations segment’s sales and nearly 84% of its operating expenses. We seek to grow our sales and reduce our costs on a per-case basis.

In the table that follows, the change in adjusted cost per case is reconciled to costs per case for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016.

40

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Three-Year Financial Targets

Sysco management considers adjusted ROIC to be a measure that provides useful information to management and investors in evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of the company's long-term capital investments. In addition, we have targets and expectations that are based on adjusted results, including an adjusted ROIC target of 15%. We cannot predict with certainty when we will achieve these results or whether the calculation of our ROIC in such future period will be on an adjusted basis due to the effect of Certain Items, which would be excluded from such calculation. Due to these uncertainties, to the extent our future calculation of ROIC is on an adjusted basis excluding Certain Items, we cannot provide a quantitative reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable GAAP measure without unreasonable effort. However, we would expect to calculate adjusted ROIC, if applicable, in the same manner as we have calculated this historically. All components of our adjusted ROIC calculation would be impacted by Certain Items. We calculate adjusted ROIC as adjusted net earnings divided by (i) stockholders’ equity, computed as the average of adjusted stockholders’ equity at the beginning of the year and at the end of each fiscal quarter during the year; and (ii) long-term debt, computed as the average of the long-term debt at the beginning of the year and at the end of each fiscal quarter during the year.

Form of calculation:

Net earnings (GAAP)

Impact of Certain Items on net earnings

Adjusted net earnings (Non-GAAP)

Invested Capital (GAAP)

Adjustments to invested capital

Adjusted Invested capital (GAAP)

Return on investment capital (GAAP)

Return on investment capital (Non-GAAP)

41

We are two years into the three-year period under our strategic plan and are measuring our operating income performance against our targets on an adjusted basis. The following reconciles operating income cumulative growth from an adjusted to a GAAP basis.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

42

(3) Includes Brakes Acquisition restructuring charges.

Due to uncertainties in projecting Certain Items, we cannot provide a quantitative reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures without unreasonable effort. However, we would expect to calculate these adjusted results in the same manner as the reconciliations provided for the historical periods that are presented herein. The impact of future Certain Items could cause projected non-GAAP amounts to differ significantly from our GAAP results.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Highlights

Comparisons of the cash flows from fiscal 2017 to fiscal 2016:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In addition, for our senior notes:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sources and Uses of Cash

Sysco’s strategic objectives include continuous investment in our business; these investments are funded by a combination of cash from operations and access to capital from financial markets. Our operations historically have produced significant cash flow. Cash generated from operations is generally allocated to:

•working capital requirements;

•investments in facilities, systems, fleet, other equipment and technology;

•return of capital to shareholders, including cash dividends and share repurchases;

•acquisitions compatible with our overall growth strategy;

•contributions to our various retirement plans; and

•debt repayments.

Any remaining cash generated from operations may be invested in high-quality, short-term instruments. As a part of our ongoing strategic analysis, we regularly evaluate business opportunities, including potential acquisitions and sales of assets and businesses, and our overall capital structure. Any transactions resulting from these evaluations may materially impact our liquidity, borrowing capacity, leverage ratios and capital availability.

We continue to generate substantial cash flows from operations and remain in a strong financial position; however, our liquidity and capital resources can be influenced by economic trends and conditions that impact our results of operations. We 

43

believe our mechanisms to manage working capital, such as credit monitoring, optimizing inventory levels and maximizing payment terms with vendors, and our mechanisms to manage the items impacting our gross profits have been sufficient to limit a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. We believe these mechanisms will continue to prevent a significant unfavorable impact on our cash flows from operations. Seasonal trends also impact our cash flows from operations and free cash flow, as we use more cash earlier in the fiscal year and then see larger, sequential quarterly increases throughout the remainder of the year. As of July 1, 2017, we had $869.5 million in cash and cash equivalents, approximately 79.0% of which was held by our international subsidiaries generated from our earnings of international operations. If these earnings were transferred among countries or repatriated to the U.S., such amounts may be subject to additional tax obligations; however, we do not currently anticipate the need to repatriate this cash.

We believe the following sources will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for the next twelve months, while maintaining sufficient liquidity for normal operating purposes:

•our cash flows from operations;

•the availability of additional capital under our existing commercial paper programs, supported by our revolving credit facility and bank line of credit; and

•our ability to access capital from financial markets, including issuances of debt securities, either privately or under our shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

Due to our strong financial position, we believe that we will continue to be able to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital markets, if necessary.

Cash Flows

Operating Activities

Fiscal 2017 vs. Fiscal 2016

We generated $2.2 billion in cash flows from operations in fiscal 2017 compared to cash flow generation of $1.9 billion in fiscal 2016. This increase of $243.3 million year-over-year was largely attributable to higher operating results, improved working capital management and a favorable comparison on accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities. These were partially offset by an unfavorable comparison on accrued income taxes and deferred income taxes. The cash impact of our Certain Items decreased $193.9 million year-over-year. The cash impact of Certain Items will differ from the earnings impact of Certain Items, as the payments for these items may occur in a different period from the period in which the Certain Item charges were recognized in the Statement of Consolidated Results of Operations. 

The statement of cash flows included within this annual report reflects the correction of misclassifications from the statement of cash flows included in the earnings release furnished with our Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 14, 2017. Specifically, in comparing the cash flow statement to the unaudited statement provided in our Form 8-K filed on August 14, 2017, “Net cash provided by operating activities” decreased by $65.5 million, “Net cash used in financing activities” increased $13.4 million and “Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents” decreased by $78.9 million. Additionally, a reclassification between goodwill, intangible assets and deferred taxes was made in the fiscal 2017 consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill increased by $26.4 million, intangible assets decreased by $31.8 million and deferred tax liabilities decreased by $5.3 million.

Changes in working capital, specifically accounts receivable and accounts payable, had a positive impact of $166.1 million on the period over period comparison of cash flow from operations, primarily from improvements in accounts payable management. This was partially offset by inventory. Sales growth impacted all components of working capital; however, deflation contributed to lower levels of increase in fiscal 2017 as compared to fiscal 2016. 

Included in the change in other long-term liabilities was a positive comparison primarily from pension contributions. Pension contributions were $57.6 million in fiscal 2017, including a $25.0 million contribution to our U.S. Retirement Plan in fiscal 2017, which resulted in a decrease to other long-term liabilities. Pension Contributions were $157.5 million in fiscal 2016, including a $130 million contribution to our Retirement Plan in fiscal 2016, which resulted in a decrease to other long-term liabilities. The level and timing of the contribution to our Retirement Plan in fiscal 2018 is still being determined. 

The positive comparison on accrued expenses was primarily due to $312.5 million in US Foods merger termination fees that were paid in fiscal 2016, partially offset by a $70.2 million decrease from incentive payments. Our annual incentive payments, 

44

for performance in the prior fiscal year, are paid in the first quarter of each succeeding fiscal year. Incentive payments paid in fiscal 2017 were higher than amounts paid in fiscal 2016 due to larger payouts achieved from fiscal 2016 performance.

Our tax payments in fiscal 2016 were lower than in fiscal 2017 due to changes in tax elections allowing us to accelerate tax deductions from method changes which, in turn, significantly reduced our estimated payments in fiscal 2016 by delaying the timing of these payments to future periods. Additionally, Sysco’s fourth quarter U.S. estimated federal tax payment for fiscal 2016 was deferred to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 due to a disaster area designation for companies located in the Houston area, the location of our corporate headquarters. We made tax payments of approximately $761.4 million in fiscal 2017, including an approximate $120 million for the deferred tax payment from the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. We expect future tax payments to grow with our earnings.

Fiscal 2016 vs. Fiscal 2015

We generated $1.9 billion in cash flows from operations in fiscal 2016 compared to cash flow generation of $1.6 billion in fiscal 2015. This increase of 377.7 million year-over-year was largely attributable to tax payments deferred to future periods and improved working capital management, partially offset by an unfavorable comparison on accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities. The cash impact of our Certain Items increased $48.9 million year-over-year. The cash impact of Certain Items will differ from the earnings impact of Certain Items, as the payments for these items may occur in a different period from the period in which the Certain Item charges were recognized in the Statement of Consolidated Results of Operations. The extra week in fiscal 2016 also contributed to the increase in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015.

Our tax payments in fiscal 2016 were lower than in fiscal 2015 due to changes in tax elections allowing us to accelerate tax deductions from method changes which, in turn, significantly reduced our estimated payments in fiscal 2016 by delaying the timing of these payments to future periods. Additionally, Sysco's fourth quarter U.S. estimated federal tax payment was deferred to the second quarter of fiscal 2017 due to a disaster area designation for companies located in the Houston area, the location of our corporate headquarters.

The negative comparison on accrued expenses was primarily due to $312.5 million in US Foods merger termination payments and a $47.1 million decrease from incentive payments. Our annual incentive payments, for performance in the prior fiscal year, are paid in the first quarter of each succeeding fiscal year. Incentive payments paid in fiscal 2015 were lower than amounts paid in fiscal 2016 due to lower payouts achieved from fiscal 2014 performance. Also contributing to the negative comparison was lower payroll accruals due to timing and reduced accrued interest due to differing debt levels and interest payment dates.

Included in the change in other long-term liabilities was a negative comparison primarily from pension contributions of $153.4 million. Pension contributions were $157.5 million in fiscal 2016, including a $130 million contribution to our Retirement Plan in fiscal 2016, which resulted in a decrease to other long-term liabilities. Of this $130 million amount, $100 million represented funding that the company would have made in fiscal 2017, but chose to fund in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016. Pension Contributions were $75.1 million in fiscal 2015, including a $50 million contribution to our Retirement Plan in fiscal 2015, which resulted in a decrease to other long-term liabilities.

Changes in working capital, specifically accounts receivable, inventory and accounts payable, had a positive impact of $127.9 million on the period over period comparison of cash flow from operations primarily from improvements in inventory management. Sales growth impacted all components of working capital; however, deflation contributed to lower levels of increase in fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015. Additionally, favorable turnover drove positive comparisons on inventories.

Investing Activities

Fiscal 2017 capital expenditures included:

•fleet replacements;

•investments in technology;

•replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Costa Rica, Georgia, Missouri, Maryland, and Texas; and

•warehouse equipment.

Fiscal 2016 capital expenditures included:

45

•fleet replacements;

•investments in technology;

•replacement or significant expansion of facilities in California, Maryland, Texas, and Virginia; and

•construction of fold-out facilities in Ireland and Texas.

Fiscal 2015 capital expenditures included:

•fleet replacements;

•investments in technology;

•replacement or significant expansion of facilities in Arizona, California, Iowa and Virginia; and

•construction of fold-out facilities in Ireland.

The level of capital expenditures in fiscal 2017 increased $159.0 million as compared to fiscal 2016. The increase was primarily due to $131.9 million associated with the Brakes Group. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2016 decreased by $15.5 million.

We estimate our capital expenditures, net of proceeds from sales of assets, in fiscal 2018, to be approximately 1.3% to 1.4% of fiscal sales. Fiscal 2018 expenditures will include facility, fleet and other equipment replacements and expansions; new facility construction, including fold-out facilities; and investments in technology.

During fiscal 2017, the company paid cash of $2.9 billion for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, including the Brakes Group and also acquired a small produce company in Sweden.

During fiscal 2016, the company paid cash of $219.2 million for acquisitions including a leading luxury personal care amenity provider in the hospitality industry, a distributor of high-quality fresh and frozen seafood based in Florida and an innovative e-commerce platform providing restaurant supplies and equipment exclusively to Sysco customers. During fiscal 2016, we paid $103.5 million and received $57.5 million for options to hedge against the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the purchase price of the Brakes Acquisition.

During fiscal 2015, in the aggregate, the company paid cash of $115.9 million for operations acquired during fiscal 2015 and for contingent consideration related to operations acquired in previous fiscal years. We also acquired a broadline company in Ontario, Canada; a joint venture interest in a foodservice distribution company in Mexico; a joint venture interest in a foodservice distribution company in Costa Rica and a specialty seafood company in New Jersey. 

Free Cash Flow

Free cash flow represents net cash provided from operating activities less purchases of plant and equipment plus proceeds from sales of plant and equipment. Sysco considers free cash flow to be a non-GAAP liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases and sales of buildings, fleet, equipment and technology, which may potentially be used to pay for, among other things, strategic uses of cash, including dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions. However, free cash flow may not be available for discretionary expenditures, as it may be necessary that we use it to make mandatory debt service or other payments. As a result of increased cash provided by operating activities, free cash flow for fiscal 2017 increased 5.9%, or $84.5 million, to $1.5 billion, as compared to fiscal 2016. Our cash requirements for our Certain Items were $193.9 million lower in fiscal 2017 than in fiscal 2016. As a result of increased cash provided by operating activities, decreased capital spending and decreased proceeds from sale of plant and equipment, free cash flow for fiscal 2016 increased 37.8%, or $392.2 million, to $1.4 billion, as compared to fiscal 2015.

Free cash flow should not be used as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP measure in assessing the company’s liquidity for the periods presented. An analysis of any non-GAAP financial measure should be used in conjunction with results presented in accordance with GAAP. In the table that follows, free cash flow for each period presented is reconciled to net cash provided by operating activities.

46

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Financing Activities

Equity Transactions

Proceeds from exercises of share-based compensation awards were $204.8 million in fiscal 2017, $282.5 million in fiscal 2016 and $240.2 million in fiscal 2015. The level of option exercises, and thus proceeds, will vary from period to period and is largely dependent on movements in our stock price and the time remaining before option grants expire.

We routinely engage in share repurchase programs. The number of shares acquired and their cost during fiscal 2017 were 35,744,589 shares for $1.9 billion, with 44,716,180 shares repurchased in fiscal 2016 for $1.9 billion. No shares were acquired in fiscal 2015 due to the proposed US Foods merger. In June 2015, our Board of Directors approved a program to repurchase, from time to time in the open market, through an accelerated share repurchase program or through privately negotiated transactions, shares of the company’s common stock in an amount not to exceed $3.0 billion during the two-year period ending July 1, 2017, in addition to amounts normally repurchased to offset benefit plan and stock option dilution. We executed all $3.0 billion of this authorization in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016. In addition to the share repurchase program approved in June 2015, in August 2015, our Board of Directors approved the repurchase of up to 20,000,000 shares for an aggregate purchase price not to exceed $800 million. The authorization expired on August 21, 2017. We executed all $800 million under this authorization and purchased 6,859,399 shares through July 1, 2017. In February 2017, our Board of Directors approved a separate repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of shares of the company’s common stock not to exceed $1.0 billion through the end of fiscal 2019. We repurchased 232,685 shares for $11.6 million under this authorization through July 1, 2017. We repurchased 3,026,737 additional shares for $154.0 million through August 11, 2017. We intend to continue purchasing shares under our current repurchase program in fiscal 2018 through open market purchases to align with our capital allocation strategy, which will involve opportunistic purchases and purchases to offset dilution resulting from shares issued under the company’s benefit plans.

We have made dividend payments to our shareholders in each fiscal year since our company's inception over 40 years ago. Dividends paid were $698.6 million, or $1.28 per share, in fiscal 2017, $698.9 million, or $1.22 per share, in fiscal 2016, and $695.3 million, or $1.17 per share, in fiscal 2015. In May 2017, we declared our regular quarterly dividend for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 of $0.33 per share, which was paid in July 2017. We expect to continue to grow our dividend in fiscal 2018.

In August 2015, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC under which we, as a well-known seasoned issuer, have the ability to issue and sell an indeterminate amount of various types of debt and equity securities. The specific terms of any securities we issue under this registration statement will be provided in the applicable prospectus supplements.

In November 2000, we filed with the SEC a shelf registration statement covering 30,000,000 shares of common stock to be offered from time to time in connection with acquisitions. As of August 11, 2017, 29,477,835 shares remained available for issuance under this registration statement.

Debt Activity and Borrowing Availability

Our debt activity, including issuances and repayments, and our borrowing availability is described in Note 11, "Debt and Other Financing Arrangements." Our outstanding borrowings at July 1, 2017, and repayment activity since the close of fiscal 2017 are disclosed within those notes. Updated amounts through August 11, 2017, include:

•$551.0 million outstanding from our commercial paper program

•No amounts outstanding from the credit facility supporting the company’s U.S. commercial paper programs.

Our aggregate commercial paper issuances and short-term bank borrowings had weighted average interest rates of 0.97% for fiscal 2017, 0.49% for fiscal 2016, and 0.54% for fiscal 2015.

47

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.

Contractual Obligations

The following table sets forth, as of July 1, 2017, certain information concerning our obligations and commitments to make contractual future payments:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The estimate of the timing of future payments under the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and Management Savings Plan involves the use of certain assumptions, including retirement ages and payout periods.

(2) The estimated contributions through fiscal 2027 to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements based on actuarial assumptions include the extension of funding relief included in the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015.

(3) Includes estimated contributions to the unfunded SERP and other postretirement benefit plans made in amounts needed to fund benefit payments for vested participants in these plans through fiscal 2027, based on actuarial assumptions.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Certain acquisitions involve contingent consideration, typically payable only in the event that certain operating results are attained or certain outstanding contingencies are resolved. Aggregate contingent consideration amounts outstanding as of July 1, 2017 were $15.3 million. This amount is not included in the table above.

48

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales and expenses in the accompanying financial statements. Significant accounting policies employed by Sysco are presented in the notes to the financial statements.

Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial position and results of operations. These policies require our most subjective or complex judgments, often employing the use of estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We have reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors the development and selection of the critical accounting policies and estimates and this related disclosure. Our most critical accounting policies and estimates pertain to the company-sponsored pension plans, income taxes, goodwill and intangible assets and share-based compensation.

Company-Sponsored Pension Plans

Amounts related to defined benefit plans recognized in the financial statements are determined on an actuarial basis. Two of the more critical assumptions in the actuarial calculations are the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits and the expected rate of return on plan assets. Our U.S. Retirement Plan is largely frozen and is only open to a small number of employees. Our SERP is frozen and is not open to any employees. Our U.K. Retirement Plan is also frozen to new participants. Due to the low level of active employees in our Retirement Plans, our assumption for the rate of increase in future compensation is not a critical assumption.

For guidance in determining the discount rates for our U.S. pension plans, we calculate the implied rate of return on a hypothetical portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments for which the timing and amount of cash outflows approximates the estimated payouts of the pension plan. The discount rates for our international pension plans were calculated using annualized corporate bond yield and spread curves that are similar to the respective expected cash flows of each plan. The discount rate assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2017 net pension costs for the U.S. Retirement Plan decreased 77 basis points to 4.07% as of the July 2, 2016 measurement date. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2017 net pension costs for the SERP decreased 72 basis points to 3.91% as of the July 2, 2016 measurement date. The combined effect of these discount rate changes increased our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2017 by an estimated $8 million. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2018 net pension costs for the U.S. Retirement Plan increased 12 basis points to 4.19% as of the July 1, 2017 measurement date. The discount rate for determining fiscal 2018 net pension costs for the SERP increased 17 basis points to 4.08% as of the July 1, 2017 measurement date. The combined effect of these discount rate changes will increase our net company-sponsored pension costs for all plans for fiscal 2018 by an estimated $1 million. A 100 basis point increase (or decrease) in the discount rates for fiscal 2017 would decrease (or increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension cost by approximately $10 million. Sysco’s pension plans are primarily frozen, therefore, the net company-sponsored pension cost is not as sensitive to discount rate changes as compared to an active plan.

The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the U.S. Retirement Plan was 7.25% for both fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the U.K. Retirement Plan was 4.15% for fiscal 2017. The expectations of future returns are derived from a mathematical asset model that incorporates assumptions as to the various asset class returns, reflecting a combination of historical performance analysis and the forward-looking views of the financial markets regarding the yield on bonds, historical returns of the major stock markets and returns on alternative investments. Although not determinative of future returns, the effective annual rate of return on the U.S. Retirement Plan assets, developed using geometric/compound averaging, was approximately 6.9%, 5.6%, 9.6%, and 11.5%, over the 20-year, 10-year, 5-year and 1-year periods ended U.S. Plan, respectively. In addition, in four of the last 15 years, the actual return on plan assets has exceeded 10%. The effective annual rate of return on the U.K. Retirement Plan assets, developed using geometric/compound averaging, was approximately 18% over the 1-year period ended June 30, 2017. The rate of return assumption is reviewed annually and revised as deemed appropriate.

The expected return on plan assets impacts the recorded amount of net pension costs. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets of the U.S. and U.K. Retirement Plans are 7.00% and 4.55%, respectively, for fiscal 2018. A 100 basis point increase (decrease) in the assumed rate of return in each Plan for fiscal 2018 would decrease (increase) Sysco’s net company-sponsored pension costs for fiscal 2017 by approximately $36 million.

Pension accounting standards require the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans in the statement of financial position, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as 

49

of July 1, 2017 was a charge, net of tax, of $974.2 million. The amount reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss related to the recognition of the funded status of our defined benefit plans as of July 2, 2016 was a charge, net of tax, of $1.1 billion.

We made cash contributions to our company-sponsored pension plans of $57.6 million and $157.5 million in fiscal years 2017 and 2016, respectively. Our contributions in fiscal 2017 include a $25 million contribution to the U.S. Retirement Plan that was voluntary, as there was no minimum required contribution for the calendar 2017 plan year to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements. There are no required contributions to the U.S. Retirement Plan to meet ERISA minimum funding requirements in fiscal 2018. The estimated fiscal 2018 contributions to fund benefit payments for the SERP plan are approximately $30.5 million. The estimated fiscal 2018 contributions to fund benefit payments for the international retirement plans are approximately $9.2 million.

Income Taxes

The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision for income taxes primarily reflects a combination of income earned and taxed in the various U.S. federal and state, as well as foreign jurisdictions. Jurisdictional tax law changes, increases or decreases in permanent differences between book and tax items, accruals or adjustments of accruals for unrecognized tax benefits or valuation allowances, and our change in the mix of earnings from these taxing jurisdictions all affect the overall effective tax rate.

Our liability for unrecognized tax benefits contains uncertainties because management is required to make assumptions and to apply judgment in estimating the exposures associated with our various filing positions. We believe that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable; however, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material. To the extent we prevail in matters for which a liability has been established, or pay amounts in excess of recorded liabilities, our effective income tax rate in a given financial statement period could be materially affected. An unfavorable tax settlement generally would require use of our cash and may result in an increase in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution. A favorable tax settlement may be recognized as a reduction in our effective income tax rate in the period of resolution.

Goodwill and Intangible Assets

We account for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that, once control of a business is obtained, 100% of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. We use multiple valuation methods to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. For intangible assets, we generally use the income method, which uses a forecast of the expected future net cash flows associated with each asset. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the income method or other methods include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows and the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment, as different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. More information on our acquisitions can be found in Note 4, "Acquisitions" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Annually in our fourth quarter, we assess the recoverability of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangibles by determining whether the fair values exceed the carrying values of these assets. Impairment reviews, outside our annual review time frame, are performed if events or circumstances occur that include changes in macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, other relevant entity-specific events, specific events affecting the reporting unit or sustained decrease in share price.

For fiscal 2017, we tested 21 reporting units from our 15 operating segments as described in Note 21, "Business Segment Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Certain of our operating segments are disaggregated into components for testing purposes, while other components with similar economic characteristics are aggregated and tested at the operating segment level. Our testing may be performed utilizing either a qualitative or quantitative assessment; however, if a qualitative assessment is performed and we determine that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not (i.e., a likelihood of more than 50 percent) to be less than its carrying amount, a quantitative test is performed.

When using a quantitative test, we arrive at our estimates of fair value using a combination of discounted cash flow and earnings or revenue multiple models. The results from each of these models are then weighted and combined into a single estimate of fair value for each reporting unit. We generally use a higher weighting for our discounted cash flow valuation compared to the earnings multiple models because the forecasted operating results that serve as a basis for the analysis incorporate management’s 

50

outlook and anticipated changes for the businesses consistent with a market participant. When reporting units represent recently acquired operations, we generally use a higher weighting for our earnings multiple models than our discounted cash flow valuation as we believe this aligns with how acquired operations are valued in the market place. The primary assumptions used in these various models include estimated earnings multiples of comparable acquisitions in the industry, including control premiums, earnings or revenue multiples on acquisitions completed by Sysco in the past, future cash flow estimates of the reporting units, which are dependent on internal forecasts and projected growth rates, and weighted average cost of capital, along with working capital and capital expenditure requirements. When possible, we use observable market inputs in our models to arrive at the fair values of our reporting units. We update our projections used in our discounted cash flow model based on historical performance and changing business conditions for each of our reporting units.

Our estimates of fair value contain uncertainties requiring management to make assumptions and to apply judgment to estimate industry economic factors and the profitability of future business strategies. Actual results could differ from these assumptions and projections, resulting in the company revising its assumptions and, if required, recognizing an impairment loss. There were no impairments of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangibles recorded as a result of assessment in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015. Our past estimates of fair value for fiscal 2016 and 2015 would not have been materially different when revised to include subsequent years’ actual results. Sysco has not made any material changes in its impairment assessment methodology during the past three fiscal years, with the exception of introducing a qualitative assessment in fiscal 2017 for seven reporting units. We do not believe the estimates used in the analysis are reasonably likely to change materially in the future, but we will continue to assess the estimates in the future based on the expectations of the reporting units. In the fiscal 2017 assessment, our estimates of fair value did not require additional analysis. However, we would have performed additional analysis to determine if an impairment existed for our Brakes U.K. broadline, Fresh Direct specialty, Sweden broadline, Ireland broadline, Mexico broadline and Costa Rica broadline reporting units if our estimates of fair value were decreased by an amount in the range of 5% and 28%, with goodwill of $1.7 billion in the aggregate as of July 1, 2017, recorded for these reporting units.

Certain reporting units (such as those noted above) have a greater proportion of goodwill recorded to estimated fair value as compared to the U.S. Broadline, Canada Broadline or SYGMA reporting units. This is primarily due to these businesses having been more recently acquired, and as a result there has been less history of organic growth than in the U.S. Broadline, Canadian Broadline and SYGMA reporting units. In addition, these businesses also have lower levels of cash flow than the U.S. Broadline reporting unit. As such, these reporting units have a greater risk of future impairment if their operations were to suffer a significant downturn.

Share-Based Compensation

Sysco provides compensation benefits to employees and non-employee directors under several share-based payment arrangements including various employee stock option plans, a non-employee director plan and the Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP).

As of July 1, 2017, there was $95.4 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to share-based compensation arrangements. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.1 years.

The fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of Sysco’s stock, implied volatilities from traded options on Sysco’s stock and other factors. We utilize historical data to estimate option exercise and employee termination behavior within the valuation model; separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for valuation purposes. Expected dividend yield is estimated based on the historical pattern of dividends and the average stock price for the year preceding the option grant. The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.

The fair value of each restricted stock unit award and performance share unit award granted with a dividend equivalent is based on the company’s stock price as of the date of grant. For restricted stock units and performance share units granted without dividend equivalents, the fair value is reduced by the present value of expected dividends during the vesting period. Expense recognized on performance share unit awards is subsequently adjusted based on forecasted performance compared to planned targets until the performance period concludes and the actual number of shares of Sysco common stock to be received upon the vesting of the performance share units is known.

The fair value of the stock issued under the ESPP is calculated as the difference between the stock price and the employee purchase price.

51

The fair value of restricted stock granted to employees or non-employee directors is based on the stock price on grant date. The application of a discount to the fair value of a restricted stock grant is dependent upon whether or not each individual grant contains a post-vesting restriction.

The compensation cost related to these share-based awards is recognized over the requisite service period. The requisite service period is generally the period during which an employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award. The compensation cost related to stock issuances resulting from employee purchases of stock under the ESPP is recognized during the quarter in which the employee payroll withholdings are made.

Our share-based awards are generally subject to graded vesting over a service period. We will recognize compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award.

In addition, certain of our share-based awards provide that the awards continue to vest as if the award holder continued to be an employee or director if the award holder meets certain age and years of service thresholds upon retirement. In these cases, we will recognize compensation cost for such awards over the period from the grant date to the date the employee or director first becomes eligible to retire with the options continuing to vest after retirement.

Our option grants include options that qualify as incentive stock options for income tax purposes. In the period the compensation cost related to incentive stock options is recorded, a corresponding tax benefit is not recorded as it is assumed that we will not receive a tax deduction related to such incentive stock options. We may be eligible for tax deductions in subsequent periods to the extent that there is a disqualifying disposition of the incentive stock option. In such cases, we would record a tax benefit related to the tax deduction in an amount not to exceed the corresponding cumulative compensation cost recorded in the financial statements on the particular options multiplied by the statutory tax rate.

Forward-Looking Statements

Statements made herein that look forward in time or express management’s expectations or beliefs with respect to the occurrence of future events are forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management’s current expectations and estimates. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “future,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” “will,” “would,” “could,” “can,” “may,” “projected,” “continuously,” variations of such terms, and similar terms and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.

Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our liquidity and our possible or assumed future results of operations or economic performance, as well as descriptions of our plans, projections and strategies, including those described in the following paragraph, and our ability to meet those goals and expectations. Such statements in this document include, but are not limited to, projections of future performance under our three-year strategic financial plan, including, for example, our expectation to drive leverage between gross profit and expense growth, our goal of leveraging earnings growth at a greater rate than sales growth, and our projections of adjusted operating income for fiscal 2018; statements regarding expected improvements in case growth trends; statements regarding increased investments in the sales team; our estimates of anticipated capital expenditures for fiscal 2018, including estimates provided net of estimated proceeds from sales of assets, and our ability to fund them; our discussions of various types of market risks, including interest rate risks, floating rate debt projections and the effectiveness of our interest rate swaps; discussions about trends in transportation costs, including fuel pricing, our projected fuel requirements and the effectiveness of fuel hedging arrangements; statements regarding the adequacy and anticipated amounts and uses of our cash flows, including our future ability to effectively access the commercial paper market and long-term capital market; statements regarding our intentions to continuously improve productivity and competitiveness, including by modernizing software and improving our e-commerce and other technological capabilities; statements regarding our expectation that we will increase customer retention and profitably accelerate sales growth with existing and new customers; projections regarding the rate of return on retirement plan assets; statements regarding expected contributions for the SERP plan and the international retirement plans; and statements regarding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in our forward-looking statements. Important factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K under the heading “Risk Factors.” Additional forward-looking statements and some important risks that could cause outcomes to vary materially from those expected include the following: The success of our three-year strategic financial objectives could be affected by conditions in the economy and the industry as well as internal factors, such as the ability to control expenses, including fuel costs. Our expectations for the Brakes Acquisition could be impacted by unfavorable economic conditions in Europe. Our expectations regarding case growth and cost per case may be 

52

impacted by factors beyond our control, including actions by our competitors and/or customers. Our expectations for deflation and inflation could be impacted by market events and supplier costs. Company-sponsored pension plan liabilities are impacted by a number of factors including the discount rate for determining the current value of plan benefits and the expected rate of return on plan assets. The amount of shares repurchased in a given period is subject to a number of factors, including available cash and our general working capital needs at the time. Meeting our dividend target objectives depends on our level of earnings, available cash and the success of our various strategic initiatives. Our expectations regarding earnings per share and various items impacting earnings is subject to a number of factors, including our ability to manage operating expenses and the impact of Certain Items. Our plans with respect to growth in international markets and adjacent areas that complement our core business are subject to our other strategic initiatives, the allocation of resources, and plans and economic conditions generally. Legal proceedings and the adequacy of insurance are impacted by events, circumstances and individuals beyond our control. Expectations of cash tax payments can be impacted by our performance. The need for additional borrowing or other capital is impacted by various factors, including capital expenditures or acquisitions in excess of those currently anticipated, levels of share repurchases, or other unexpected cash requirements. Plans regarding the repayment of debt are subject to change at any time based on management’s assessment of the overall needs of the company. Capital expenditures may vary from those projected based on changes in business plans and other factors, including risks related to the timing and successful completion of acquisitions, construction schedules and the possibility that other cash requirements could result in delays or cancellations of capital spending. Our ability to finance capital expenditures as anticipated may be influenced by our results of operations, our borrowing capacity, share repurchases, dividend levels and other factors. Expectations regarding tax rates and the transfer of cash held in foreign jurisdictions are subject to various factors beyond our control and decisions of management throughout the fiscal year that are subject to change based on our business needs. The anticipated impact of compliance with laws and regulations also involves the risk that estimates may turn out to be materially incorrect, and laws and regulations, as well as methods of enforcement, are subject to change.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk