Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

Our market risks consist of interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, fuel price risk and investment risk.

Interest Rate Risk

We do not utilize financial instruments for trading purposes. Our use of debt directly exposes us to interest rate risk. Floating rate debt, where the interest rate fluctuates periodically, exposes us to short-term changes in market interest rates. Fixed rate debt, where the interest rate is fixed over the life of the instrument, exposes us to changes in market interest rates reflected in the fair value of the debt and to the risk that we may need to refinance maturing debt with new debt at higher rates.

We manage our debt portfolio to achieve an overall desired position of fixed and floating rates and may employ interest rate swaps as a tool to achieve that position. The major risks from interest rate derivatives include changes in the interest rates affecting the fair value of such instruments, potential increases in interest expense due to market increases in floating interest rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties in such transactions.

At July 1, 2017, there were $119.7 million in commercial paper issuances outstanding. Total debt as of July 1, 2017 was $8.2 billion, of which approximately 71% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements.

At July 2, 2016, there were no commercial paper issuances outstanding. Total debt as of July 2, 2016 was $7.4 billion, of which approximately 68% was at fixed rates of interest, including the impact of our interest rate swap agreements.

Details of our outstanding swap agreements as of July 1, 2017 are below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53

We receive or pay amounts on these interest rate swap agreements on a semi-annual basis.

The following tables present our interest rate position as of July 1, 2017. All amounts are stated in U.S. dollar equivalents.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) Includes fixed rate debt that has been converted to floating rate debt through an interest rate swap agreement.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Rate A – six-month LIBOR

Rate B – three-month LIBOR

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk

The majority of our foreign subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. To the extent that business transactions are not denominated in a foreign subsidiary’s functional currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk. We will also incur gains and losses within our shareholders’ equity due to the translation of our financial statements from foreign currencies into U.S. dollars. Our largest currency exposures are with Canadian dollars, British pound sterling and Euro currencies. Our income statement trends may be impacted by the translation of the income statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. The exchange rates used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars positively impacted sales by 0.1% in fiscal 2017 when compared to fiscal 2016. The exchange rate used to translate our foreign sales into U.S. dollars negatively impacted sales by 1.3% in fiscal 2016 when compared to fiscal 2015. The impact to our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share was not material in fiscal 2017 or fiscal 2016. A 10% unfavorable change in the fiscal 2017 weighted year-to-date exchange rate and the resulting impact on our financial statements would have negatively impacted fiscal 2017 sales by 1.8% and would not have materially impacted our operating income, net earnings and earnings per share. We do not routinely enter into material agreements to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risks.

Our Brakes Acquisition created additional foreign currency exposure. In fiscal 2017, we designated €500 million of Euro notes issued in June 2016 and various cross currency swaps as hedges of a portion of our net investment in Euro-denominated and Sterling-denominated foreign operations to reduce foreign currency risk associated with the investment in these operations. Changes in the value of these items resulting from fluctuations in the underlying exchange rates to U.S. Dollar exchange rates are recorded 

54

as foreign currency translation adjustments within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). In fiscal 2017, we entered into various cross currency swaps to mitigate the risk of exchange rate changes for an intercompany loan that is not in the functional currency of one of our subsidiaries. These have been designated as cash flow hedges with changes recorded within foreign currency translation adjustments within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). 

Fuel Price Risk

Due to the nature of our distribution business, we are exposed to potential volatility in fuel prices. The price and availability of diesel fuel fluctuates due to changes in production, seasonality and other market factors generally outside of our control. Increased fuel costs may have a negative impact on our results of operations in three areas. First, the high cost of fuel can negatively impact consumer confidence and discretionary spending and thus reduce the frequency and amount spent by consumers for food-away-from-home purchases. Second, the high cost of fuel can increase the price we pay for product purchases and we may not be able to pass these costs fully to our customers. Third, increased fuel costs impact the costs we incur to deliver product to our customers. Fuel costs related to outbound deliveries represented approximately 0.5% of sales during both fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016.

Our activities to mitigate fuel costs include routing optimization with the goal of reducing miles driven, improving fleet utilization by adjusting idling time and maximum speeds and using fuel surcharges. During fiscal 2017, we began entering into diesel fuel swaps for fiscal 2018 for a portion of our projected monthly diesel fuel requirements. As of July 1, 2017, we had diesel fuel swaps with a total notional amount of approximately $78.0 million through June 2018. These swaps will lock in the price of approximately 55% to 60% of our projected fuel purchase needs for fiscal 2018. Our remaining fuel purchase needs will occur at market rates unless contracted for a fixed price or hedged at a later date. Using current, published quarterly market price projections for diesel and estimates of fuel consumption, a 10% unfavorable change in diesel prices from the market price would result in a potential increase of approximately $8.6 million in our fuel costs on our non-contracted volumes.

Investment Risk

Our company-sponsored qualified pension plans (U.S. Retirement Plan and U.K. Retirement Plan) hold various investments, including public and private equity, fixed income securities and real estate funds. The amount of our annual contribution to the plan is dependent upon, among other things, the return on the plan’s assets and discount rates used to calculate the plan’s liability. Fluctuations in asset values can cause the amount of our anticipated future contributions to the plan to increase and can result in a reduction to shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of fiscal year-end, which is when this plan’s funded status is measured. Also, the projected liability of the plan will be impacted by the fluctuations of interest rates on high quality bonds in the public markets. To the extent the financial markets experience declines, our anticipated future contributions and funded status will be affected for future years. A 10% unfavorable change in the value of the investments held by our company-sponsored Retirement Plans at the plan’s fiscal year end (December 31, 2016) would not have a material impact on our anticipated future contributions for fiscal 2018; however, such an unfavorable change would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2018 by $34.0 million and would reduce our shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet as of July 1, 2017 by $334.2 million. An unfavorable change in the fair value of our U.K. Plan assets would increase our pension expense for fiscal 2018 by $2.1 million and would reduce our shareholders’ equity on our balance sheet, as of July 1, 2017, by $25.9 million.

55

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data