PART I  

Item 1. Business.  

Proposed Merger with Progress Energy, Inc. On January 8, 2011, Duke Energy Corporation (Duke Energy) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) among Diamond Acquisition Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and Duke Energy’s wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub) and Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), a North Carolina corporation engaged in the regulated utility business of generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into Progress Energy with Progress Energy continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy.  

Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the closing of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of Progress Energy common stock will automatically be canceled and converted into the right to receive 2.6125 shares of common stock of Duke Energy, subject to appropriate adjustment for a reverse stock split of the Duke Energy common stock as contemplated in the Merger Agreement and except that any shares of Progress Energy common stock that are owned by Progress Energy or Duke Energy, other than in a fiduciary capacity, will be canceled without any consideration therefor. Each outstanding option to acquire, and each outstanding equity award relating to, one share of Progress Energy common stock will be converted into an option to acquire, or an equity award relating to 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock, as applicable, subject to appropriate adjustment for the reverse stock split. Based on Progress Energy shares outstanding at December 31, 2011, Duke Energy would issue 771 million shares of common stock to convert the Progress Energy common shares in the merger under the unadjusted exchange ratio of 2.6125. The exchange ratio will be adjusted proportionately to reflect a 1-for-3 reverse stock split with respect to the issued and outstanding Duke Energy common stock that Duke Energy plans to implement prior to, and conditioned on, the completion of the merger. The resulting adjusted exchange ratio is 0.87083 of a share of Duke Energy common stock for each share of Progress Energy common stock. Based on Progress Energy shares outstanding at December 31, 2011, Duke Energy would issue 257 million shares of common stock, after the effect of the 1-for-3 reverse stock split, to convert the Progress Energy common shares in the merger. The merger will be accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting with Duke Energy treated as the acquirer, for accounting purposes. Based on the market price of Duke Energy common stock on December 31, 2011, the transaction would be valued at $17 billion and would result in incremental recorded goodwill to Duke Energy of $11 billion, according to current estimates. Duke Energy would also assume all of Progress Energy’s outstanding debt, which is estimated to be $15 billion based on the approximate fair value of Progress Energy’s outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2011. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies’ Boards of Directors.  

The merger is conditioned upon, among other things, approval by the shareholders of both companies, as well as expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), and the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC). Duke Energy and Progress Energy also are seeking review of the merger by the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC) and approval of the joint dispatch agreement by the PSCSC. Although there are no merger-specific regulatory approvals required in Indiana, Ohio or Florida, the companies will continue to update the public service commissions in those states on the merger, as applicable and as required.  

No assurances can be given as to the timing of the satisfaction of all closing conditions or that all required approvals will be received.  

For additional information on the details of this proposed transaction including the status of regulatory approvals, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets.”  

Overview.  

Duke Energy Corporation. Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Its regulated utility operations serve 4 million customers located in five states in the Southeast and Midwest United States (U.S.), representing a population of approximately 12 million people. Its Commercial Power and International Energy business segments own and operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the U.S. Duke Energy operates in the U.S. primarily through its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), which includes Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky), and Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana), as well as in Latin America through Duke Energy International, LLC. When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its three separate subsidiary registrants, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants), which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.  

Duke Energy Holding Corp. (Duke Energy HC) was incorporated in Delaware on May 3, 2005. On April 3, 2006, Duke Energy and Cinergy Corp. (Cinergy) consummated a merger which combined the Duke Energy and Cinergy regulated franchises, as well as deregulated generation in the Midwestern U.S. In connection with the closing of the merger transactions, Duke Energy HC changed its name to Duke Energy Corporation (Duke Energy) and Old Duke Energy converted into a limited liability company named Duke Power Company, LLC (subsequently renamed Duke Energy Carolinas effective October 1, 2006).Old Duke Energy is the predecessor of Duke Energy for purposes of U.S. securities regulations governing financial statement filing.  

 General. Duke Energy is a Delaware corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 550 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-1803. Duke Energy Carolinas is a North Carolina limited liability company. Its principal executive offices are located at 526 South Church Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-1803. Duke Energy Ohio is an Ohio corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 139 East Fourth Street, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. Duke Energy Indiana is an Indiana corporation. Its principal executive offices are located at 1000 East Main Street, Plainfield, Indiana 46168.  

The telephone number for the Duke Energy Registrants is 704-382-3853. The Duke Energy Registrants electronically file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies and amendments to such reports.  

The public may read and copy any materials that the Duke Energy Registrants file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Duke Energy Registrants, including its reports filed with the SEC, is available through Duke Energy’s Web site at http://www.duke-energy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge through Duke Energy’s Web site and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

The following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other. (For more information on the operating outlook of Duke Energy and its reportable segments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Introduction—Executive Overview and Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s  

8  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 Business”. For financial information on Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”)  

Duke Energy Business Segments. Duke Energy conducts its operations in the following business segments, all of which are considered reportable segments under the applicable accounting rules: U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G), Commercial Power and International Energy. The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations are presented as Other. Duke Energy’s chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information about each of these business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial and geographic information about each reportable business segment, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

U.S. FRANCHISED ELECTRIC AND GAS  

Service Area and Customers  

USFE&G generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity in central and western North Carolina, western South Carolina, central, north central and southern Indiana, and northern Kentucky. USFE&G also transmits, distributes and sells electricity in southwestern Ohio. Additionally, USFE&G transports and sells natural gas in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. It conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, the regulated transmission and distribution operations of Duke Energy Ohio, including Duke Energy Kentucky, and Duke Energy Indiana (Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest). These electric and gas operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the FERC, the NCUC, the PSCSC, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) and the KPSC. The substantial majority of USFE&G’s operations are regulated and, accordingly, these operations qualify for regulatory accounting treatment.  

Its service area covers 50,000 square miles with an estimated population of 12 million. USFE&G supplies electric service to four million residential, general service and industrial customers. USFE&G provides regulated transmission and distribution services for natural gas to 500,000 customers in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Electricity is also sold wholesale to incorporated municipalities, electric cooperative utilities and other load serving entities.  

Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area has a diversified general service and industrial presence. Manufacturing continues to be an important contributor to the region’s economy, along with financial, professional and business services. Other sectors such as trade, health care, local government and education also constitute key components of the states’ gross domestic product. Chemicals, computers and electronics, rubber and plastics, textile, paper and motor vehicle manufacturing industries were among the most significant contributors to the Duke Energy Carolinas’ industrial sales revenue for 2011.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s service area has a diversified general service and industrial customer base. Major components of the manufacturing sector include: aerospace and motor vehicles, metals, chemicals and food. Other sectors include: real estate and rental leasing, financial and insurance services, healthcare and wholesale trade services. These are among the primary contributors to Duke Energy Ohio’s industrial and general service sales revenue for 2011.  

For Duke Energy Indiana, a significant portion of the service territory’s economic output is driven by manufacturing. Chemicals, transportation equipment, machinery and metal industries were the primary contributors. Other sectors include: retail trade, government, financial, health care and education services. Duke Energy Indiana’s 2011 industrial and general service sales were concentrated in the aforementioned sectors.  

The number of residential, general service and industrial customers within the USFE&G service territory, as well as sales to these customers, is expected to increase over time. However, growth in the near-term is being hampered by the current economic conditions. Industrial sales increased modestly in 2011 when compared to 2010; however, the growth rate was lower than in previous comparable periods.  

Seasonality and the Impact of Weather  

USFE&G’s costs and revenues are influenced by seasonal patterns. Peak sales of electricity occur during the summer and winter months, resulting in higher revenue and cash flows during those periods. By contrast, fewer sales of electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant maintenance during those periods. Peak gas sales occur during the winter months. Residential and commercial customers are most impacted by weather. Industrial customers are less weather sensitive. Normal weather conditions are defined as the long-term average of actual historical weather conditions.  

The estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the number of customers, temperature variances from a normal condition and customer’s historic usage levels and patterns. The methodology used to estimate the impact of weather does not and cannot consider all variables that may impact customer response to weather conditions such as humidity and relative temperature changes. The precision of this estimate may also be impacted by applying long-term weather trends to shorter term periods.  

Competition  

USFE&G’s regulated utility business operates as the sole supplier of electricity within certain service territories. It owns and operates all of the businesses and facilities necessary to generate, transmit and distribute electricity. Services are priced by state commission approved rates designed to include the costs of providing these services and a reasonable return on invested capital. This regulatory policy is intended to provide safe and reliable electricity at fair prices. USFE&G’s competition in the regulated electric distribution business is primarily from the on-site generation of industrial customers. USFE&G also competes with other utilities and marketers in the wholesale electric business. The principal factors in competing for wholesale sales are price (including fuel costs), availability of capacity and power and reliability of service. Wholesale electric prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and fuel costs.  

Energy Capacity and Resources  

For information on USFE&G’s generation facilities, see “U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas” in Item 2. “Properties”.  

Electric energy for USFE&G’s customers is generated by three nuclear generating stations with a combined owned capacity of 5,173 megawatt (MW) (including Duke Energy’s 19.25% ownership in the Catawba Nuclear Station), 14 coal-fired stations with an overall combined owned capacity of 12,977 MW (including Duke Energy’s 69% ownership in the East Bend Steam Station and 50.05% ownership in Unit 5 of the Gibson Steam Station), 31 hydroelectric stations (including two pumped-storage facilities) with a combined owned capacity of 3,321 MW, 15 combustion turbine (CT) stations burning natural gas, oil or other fuels with an overall combined owned capacity of 5,012 MW, and two Combined Cycle (CC) stations burning natural gas with an owned capacity of 905 MW. In addition, USFE&G operates a solar Distributed Generation program with 9 MW of capacity. Energy and capacity are also supplied through contracts with other generators and purchased on the open market. Factors that could cause USFE&G to purchase power for its customers include generating plant outages, extreme weather conditions, generation reliability during the summer, growth, and price. USFE&G has interconnections and arrangements with its neighboring utilities to facilitate planning, emergency assistance, sale and purchase of capacity and energy, and reliability of power supply.  

9  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

USFE&G’s generation portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost to meet its obligation to serve native-load customers. All options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements. The vast majority of customer energy needs have historically been met by large, low-energy-production-cost nuclear and coal-fired generating units that operated almost continuously (or at baseload levels). However, recent commodity pricing trends have resulted in more combined cycle gas-fired generation.  

Hydroelectric (both conventional and pumped storage) facilities in the Carolinas and gas/oil CT and CC stations in both the Carolinas and Midwest operate primarily during the peak-hour load periods when customer loads are rapidly changing. CT’s and CC’s are less expensive to build and maintain than either nuclear or coal, and can be rapidly started or stopped as needed to meet changing customer loads or operated as base load units depending on commodity prices. Hydroelectric units produce low-cost energy, but their operations are limited by the availability of water flow.  

USFE&G’s pumped-storage hydroelectric facilities offer the added flexibility of using low-cost off-peak energy to pump water that will be stored for later generation use during times of higher-cost on-peak periods. These facilities allow USFE&G to maximize the value spreads between different high- and low-cost generation periods.  

USFE&G is engaged in planning efforts to meet projected load growth in its service territories. Long-term projections indicate a need for capacity additions, which may include new nuclear, integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC), coal facilities, gas-fired generation units or renewable energy facilities. Because of the long lead times required to develop such assets, USFE&G is taking steps now to ensure those options are available. Significant current or potential future capital projects are discussed below.  

In 2007, North Carolina and South Carolina passed energy legislation which includes provisions to provide assurance of cost recovery, subject to prudency review, related to a utility’s incurrence of project development costs associated with nuclear baseload generation, cost recovery assurance for construction costs associated with nuclear or coal baseload generation, and the ability to recover financing costs for new nuclear baseload generation in rates during construction.  

William States Lee III Nuclear Station In December 2007, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an application with the NRC, which has been docketed for review, for a combined Construction and Operating License (COL) for two Westinghouse AP1000 (advanced passive) reactors for the proposed William States Lee III Nuclear Station (Lee Nuclear Station) at a site in Cherokee County, South Carolina. Each reactor is capable of producing 1,117 MW. Submitting the COL application does not commit Duke Energy Carolinas to build nuclear units. Through several separate orders, the NCUC and PSCSC have allowed Duke Energy to incur project development and pre-construction costs for the project through June 30, 2012, and up to an aggregate maximum amount of $350 million.  

As a condition to the approval of continued development of the project, Duke Energy Carolinas shall provide certain monthly reports to the PSCSC and the Office of Regulatory Staff (ORS). Duke Energy Carolinas has also agreed to provide a monthly report to certain parties on the progress of negotiations to acquire an interest in the V.C. Summer Nuclear Station expansion being developed by South Carolina Public Service Authority (Santee Cooper) and South Carolina Electric & Gas Company . Any change in ownership interest, output allocation, sharing of costs or control and any future option agreements concerning Lee Nuclear Station shall be subject to prior approval of the PSCSC.  

The NRC review of the COL application continues and the estimated receipt of the COL is in mid 2013. Duke Energy Carolinas filed with the Department of Energy (DOE) for a federal loan guarantee, which has the potential to significantly lower financing costs associated with the proposed Lee Nuclear Station; however, it was not among the four projects selected by the DOE for the final phase of due diligence for the federal loan guarantee program. The project could be selected in the future if the program funding is expanded or if any of the current finalists drop out of the program.  

Duke Energy Carolinas is seeking partners for Lee Nuclear Station by issuing options to purchase an ownership interest in the plant. In the first quarter of 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into an agreement with JEA that provides JEA with an option to purchase up to a 20% undivided ownership interest in Lee Nuclear Station. JEA has 90 days following Duke Energy Carolinas’ receipt of the COL to exercise the option.  

Duke Energy Carolinas V.C. Summer Nuclear Station Letter of Intent. In July 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas signed a letter of intent with Santee Cooper related to the potential acquisition by Duke Energy Carolinas of a five percent to ten percent ownership interest in the V.C. Summer Nuclear Station being developed by Santee Cooper and SCE&G near Jenkinsville, South Carolina. The letter of intent provides a path for Duke Energy Carolinas to conduct the necessary due diligence to determine if future participation in this project is beneficial for its customers.  

Cliffside Unit 6. On March 21, 2007, the NCUC issued an order allowing Duke Energy Carolinas to build an 800 MW coal-fired unit. Following final equipment selection and the completion of detailed engineering, Cliffside Unit 6 is expected to have a net output of 825 MW. On January 31, 2008, Duke Energy Carolinas filed its updated cost estimate of $1.8 billion (excluding allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) of $600 million) for the approved new Cliffside Unit 6. In March 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas filed an updated cost estimate of $1.8 billion (excluding AFUDC) with the NCUC where it reduced the estimated AFUDC financing costs to $400 million as a result of the December 2009 rate case settlement with the NCUC that allowed the inclusion of construction work in progress in rate base prospectively. Duke Energy Carolinas believes that the overall cost of Cliffside Unit 6 will be reduced by $125 million in federal advanced clean coal tax credits. The Cliffside Unit 6 project is approximately 95% complete as of December 31, 2011 and is currently anticipated to be completed and in-service in 2012.  

Dan River and Buck Combined Cycle Facilities. In June 2008, the NCUC issued its order approving the Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity (CPCN) applications to construct a 620 MW combined cycle natural gas fired generating facility at each of Duke Energy Carolinas’ existing Dan River Steam Station and Buck Steam Station. The Division of Air Quality (DAQ) issued a final air permit authorizing construction of the Buck and Dan River combined cycle natural gas-fired generating units in October 2008 and August 2009, respectively.  

Based on the most updated cost estimates, total costs (including AFUDC) for the Buck and Dan River projects are $675 million and $710 million, respectively. In November 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas placed the Buck combined cycle natural gas-fired generation facility in service. The Dan River project is approximately 77% complete as of December 31, 2011, and expected to be placed into service by the end of 2012.  

Edwardsport IGCC. In September 2006, Duke Energy Indiana and Southern Indiana Gas and Electric Company d/b/a Vectren Energy Delivery of Indiana (Vectren) filed a joint petition with the IURC seeking a CPCN for the construction of a 618 MW IGCC power plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station in Knox County, Indiana. The facility was initially estimated to cost approximately $1.985 billion (including $120 million of AFUDC). In August 2007, Vectren formally withdrew its participation in the IGCC plant and a hearing was conducted on the CPCN petition based on Duke Energy Indiana owning 100% of the project. On November 20, 2007, the IURC issued an order granting Duke Energy Indiana a CPCN for the proposed IGCC project, approved the cost estimate of $1.985 billion and approved the timely recovery of costs related to the project. On January 25, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana received the final air permit from the Indiana Department of Environmental Management. The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana, Inc. (CAC), Sierra Club, Inc., Save the Valley, Inc., and Valley Watch, Inc., all intervenors in the CPCN proceeding, have appealed the air permit.  

10  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

On May 1, 2008, Duke Energy Indiana filed its first semi-annual IGCC rider and ongoing review proceeding with the IURC as required under the CPCN order issued by the IURC. In its filing, Duke Energy Indiana requested approval of a new cost estimate for the IGCC project of $2.35 billion (including $125 million of AFUDC) and for approval of plans to study carbon capture as required by the IURC’s CPCN order. On January 7, 2009, the IURC approved Duke Energy Indiana’s request, including the new cost estimate of $2.35 billion, and cost recovery associated with a study on carbon capture. Duke Energy Indiana was required to file its plans for studying carbon storage related to the project within 60 days of the order. On November 3, 2008 and May 1, 2009, Duke Energy Indiana filed its second and third semi-annual IGCC riders, respectively, both of which were approved by the IURC in full.  

On November 24, 2009, Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition for its fourth semi-annual IGCC rider and ongoing review proceeding with the IURC. As Duke Energy Indiana experienced design modifications, quantity increases and scope growth above what was anticipated from the preliminary engineering design, capital costs to the IGCC project were anticipated to increase. Duke Energy Indiana forecasted that the additional capital cost items would use the remaining contingency and escalation amounts in the current $2.35 billion cost estimate and add $150 million, excluding the impact associated with the need to add more contingency. Duke Energy Indiana did not request approval of an increased cost estimate in the fourth semi-annual update proceeding; rather, Duke Energy Indiana requested, and the IURC approved, a subdocket proceeding in which Duke Energy Indiana would present additional evidence regarding an updated estimated cost for the IGCC project and in which a more comprehensive review of the IGCC project could occur. An interim order was received on July 28, 2010 and approves implementation of an updated IGCC rider to recover costs incurred through September 30, 2009. The approvals are on an interim basis pending the outcome of the sub-docket proceeding involving the revised cost estimate as discussed further below.  

On April 16, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana filed a revised cost estimate for the IGCC project reflecting an estimated cost increase of $530 million. Duke Energy Indiana requested approval of the new cost estimate of $2.88 billion (including $160 million of AFUDC) and for continuation of the existing cost recovery treatment. A major driver of the cost increase included quantity increases and design changes, which impacted the scope, productivity and schedule of the IGCC project. On September 17, 2010 an agreement was reached with the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor (OUCC), Duke Energy Indiana Industrial Group and Nucor Steel – Indiana to increase the authorized cost estimate of $2.35 billion to $2.76 billion, and to cap the project’s costs that could be passed on to customers at $2.975 billion. Any construction cost amounts above $2.76 billion will be subject to a prudence review similar to most other rate base investments in Duke Energy Indiana’s next general rate increase request before the IURC. Duke Energy Indiana agreed to accept a 150 basis point reduction in the equity return for any project construction costs greater than $2.35 billion. Additionally, Duke Energy Indiana agreed not to file for a general rate case increase before March 2012. Duke Energy Indiana also agreed to reduce depreciation rates earlier than would otherwise be required and to forego a deferred tax incentive related to the IGCC project. As a result of the settlement, Duke Energy Indiana recorded a pre-tax charge to earnings of $44 million in the third quarter of 2010 to reflect the impact of the reduction in the return on equity. Due to the IURC investigation discussed below, the IURC convened a technical conference on November 3, 2010, related to the continuing need for the Edwardsport IGCC facility. On December 9, 2010, the parties to the settlement withdrew the settlement agreement to provide an opportunity for the parties to the settlement to assess whether and to what extent the settlement agreement remained a reasonable allocation of risks and rewards and whether modifications to the settlement agreement were appropriate. The IURC granted the motion and scheduled a new evidentiary hearing to begin March 17, 2011. Management determined that the $44 million charge discussed above was not impacted by the withdrawal of the settlement agreement.  

During 2010, Duke Energy Indiana filed petitions for its fifth and sixth semi-annual IGCC riders. Evidentiary hearings are set for April 24-25, 2012, respectively.  

The Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana, Inc. (CAC), Sierra Club, Inc., Save the Valley, Inc., and Valley Watch, Inc. filed motions for two subdocket proceedings alleging improper circumstances, undue influence, fraud, concealment and gross mismanagement, and a request for field hearing in this proceeding. Duke Energy Indiana opposed the requests. On February 25, 2011, the IURC issued an order which denied the request for a subdocket to investigate the allegations of improper communications and undue influence at this time, finding there were other agencies better suited for such investigation. The IURC also found that allegations of fraud, concealment and gross mismanagement related to the IGCC project should be heard in a Phase II proceeding of the cost estimate subdocket and set evidentiary hearings on both Phase I (cost estimate increase) and Phase II beginning in August 2011. After procedural delays, hearings for Phase I began on October 26, 2011 and for Phase II hearings begin on November 21, 2011.  

On March 10, 2011, Duke Energy Indiana filed testimony with the IURC proposing a framework designed to mitigate customer rate impacts associated with the Edwardsport IGCC project. Duke Energy Indiana’s filing proposed a cap on the project’s construction costs, (excluding financing costs), which can be recovered through rates at $2.72 billion. It also proposed rate-related adjustments that will lower the overall customer rate increase related to the project from an average of 19% to approximately 16%. The proposal is subject to the approval of the IURC in the Phase I hearings.  

On June 27, 2011, Duke Energy Indiana filed testimony with the IURC in connection with its seventh semi-annual rider request which included an update on the current cost forecast of the Edwardsport IGCC project. The updated forecast excluding AFUDC increased from $2.72 billion to $2.82 billion, not including any contingency for unexpected start-up events. On June 30, 2011, the OUCC and intervenors filed testimony in Phase I recommending that Duke Energy Indiana be disallowed cost recovery of any of the additional cost estimate increase above the previously approved cost estimate of $2.35 billion. Duke Energy Indiana filed rebuttal testimony on August 3, 2011. On November 30, 2011, Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition with the IURC in connection with its eight semi-annual rider request for the Edwardsport project. Evidentiary hearings for the seventh and eighth semi-annual rider requests are scheduled for August 6 and August 7, 2012.  

In the subdocket proceeding on July 14, 2011, the OUCC and certain intervenors filed testimony in Phase II alleging that Duke Energy Indiana concealed information and grossly mismanaged the project, and therefore Duke Energy Indiana should only be permitted to recover from customers $1.985 billion, the original IGCC project cost estimate approved by the IURC. Other intervenors recommended that Duke Energy Indiana not be able to rely on any cost recovery granted under the CPCN or the first cost increase order. Duke Energy Indiana believes it has diligently and prudently managed the project. On September 9, 2011, Duke Energy defended against the allegations in its responsive testimony. The OUCC and intervenors filed their final rebuttal testimony in Phase II on or before October 7, 2011, making similar claims of fraud, concealment and gross mismanagement and recommending the same outcome of limiting Duke Energy Indiana’s recovery to the $1.985 billion initial cost estimate. Additionally, the CAC parties recommended that recovery be limited to the costs incurred on the IGCC project as of November 30, 2009 (Duke Energy Indiana estimates it had committed costs of $1.6 billion), with further IURC proceedings to be held to determine the financial consequences of this recommendation.  

On October 19, 2011, Duke Energy revised its project cost estimate from approximately $2.82 billion, excluding financing costs, to approximately $2.98 billion, excluding financing costs. The revised estimate reflects additional cost pressures resulting from quantity increase and the resulting impact on the scope, productivity and schedule of the IGCC project. Duke Energy Indiana previously proposed to the IURC a cost cap of approximately $2.72 billion, plus the actual AFUDC that accrues on that amount. As a result, Duke Energy Indiana recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $222 million in the third quarter of 2011 related to costs expected to be incurred above the cost cap. This charge is in addition to a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $44 million recorded in the third quarter of 2010 as discussed above. The cost cap, if approved by the IURC, limits the amount of project construction costs that may be incorporated into customer rates in  

11  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 Indiana. As a result of the proposed cost cap, recovery of these cost increases is not considered probable. Additional updates to the cost estimate could occur through the completion of the plant in 2012.  

Phase I and Phase II hearings concluded on January 24, 2012. Final orders from the IURC on Phase I and Phase II of the subdocket and the pending IGCC Rider proceedings are expected no sooner than the end of the third quarter 2012.  

Duke Energy is unable to predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings. In the event the IURC disallows a portion of the plant costs, including financing costs, or if cost estimates for the plant increase, additional charges to expense, which could be material, could occur.  

The Edwardsport IGCC facility is approximately 97% complete as of December 31, 2011 and is expected to be completed and placed in service in 2012.  

Duke Energy Indiana Carbon Sequestration. Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition with the IURC requesting approval of its plans for studying carbon storage, sequestration and/or enhanced oil recovery for the carbon dioxide (CO2) from the Edwardsport IGCC facility on March 6, 2009. On July 7, 2009, Duke Energy Indiana filed its case-in-chief testimony requesting approval for cost recovery of a $121 million site assessment and characterization plan for CO2 sequestration options including deep saline sequestration, depleted oil and gas sequestration and enhanced oil recovery for the CO2 from the Edwardsport IGCC facility. The OUCC filed testimony supportive of the continuing study of carbon storage, but recommended that Duke Energy Indiana break its plan into phases, recommending approval of only $33 million in expenditures at this time and deferral of expenditures rather than cost recovery through a tracking mechanism as proposed by Duke Energy Indiana. The CAC, an intervenor, recommended against approval of the carbon storage plan stating customers should not be required to pay for research and development costs. Duke Energy Indiana’s rebuttal testimony was filed October 30, 2009, wherein it amended its request to seek deferral of $42 million to cover the carbon storage site assessment and characterization activities scheduled to occur through the end of 2010, with further required study expenditures subject to future IURC proceedings. An evidentiary hearing was held on November 9, 2009.  

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for further discussion on the above in-process or potential construction projects.  

Duke Energy Generating Facility Retirements. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Indiana, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky each periodically file Integrated Resource Plans (IRP) with their state regulatory commissions. The IRPs provide a view of forecasted energy needs over a long term (15-20 years), and options being considered to meet those needs. The IRP’s filed by Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Indiana, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky in 2011 and 2010 included planning assumptions to potentially retire, by 2015, certain coal-fired generating facilities in North Carolina, South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky that do not have the requisite emission control equipment, primarily to meet EPA regulations that are not yet effective. These facilities total approximately 3,300 MW at eight sites (Dan River, Riverbend, Lee, Buck units 5 and 6, Wabash River, Gallagher, Beckjord and Miami Fort unit 6). Duke Energy continues to evaluate the potential need to retire these coal-fired generating facilities earlier than the current estimated useful lives, and plans to seek regulatory recovery for amounts that would not be otherwise recovered when any assets are retired.  

Fuel Supply  

USFE&G relies principally on coal and nuclear fuel for its generation of electric energy. The following table lists USFE&G’s sources of power and fuel costs for the three years ended December 31, 2011.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Statistics related to coal generation and all fuels reflect USFE&G’s 69% ownership interest in the East Bend Steam Station and 50.05% ownership interest in Unit 5 of the Gibson Steam Station.  

 (b) Cost statistics include amounts for light-off fuel at USFE&G’s coal-fired stations and combined cycle (gas only).  

 (c) Generating figures are net of output required to replenish pumped storage facilities during off-peak periods.  

 (d) In addition, Duke Energy Carolinas produced approximately 6,000 megawatt-hours (MWh) in solar generation for 2011 and 2010; no fuel costs are attributed to this generation.  

Coal. USFE&G meets its coal demand in the Carolinas and Midwest through a portfolio of long-term purchase contracts and short-term spot market purchase agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under long-term contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. USFE&G uses spot-market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by long-term contracts. Expiration dates for its long-term contracts, which have various price adjustment provisions and market re-openers, range from 2012 to 2014 for the Carolinas and 2012 to 2016 for the Midwest. USFE&G expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with other suppliers for the quantities and quality of coal required as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. The coal purchased for the Carolinas is primarily produced from mines in eastern Kentucky, West Virginia and southwestern Virginia. The coal purchased for the regulated Midwest entities is primarily produced in Indiana, Illinois, and Kentucky. USFE&G has an adequate supply of coal under contract to fuel its projected 2012 operations and a significant portion of supply to fuel its projected 2013 operations. Coal inventory levels have increased during the past year due to the impact of mild weather and the economy on retail load and low natural gas prices which are resulting in higher combined cycle gas-fired generation. If these factors continue for an extended period of time, USFE&G could have excess levels of coal inventory or incur incremental purchased power or other costs.  

12  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

The current average sulfur content of coal purchased by USFE&G for the Carolinas is between 1% and 2%; while the Midwest is between 2% and 3%. USFE&G’s scrubbers, in combination with the use of sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission allowances, enable USFE&G to satisfy current SO2 emission limitations for existing facilities in the Carolinas and Midwest.  

Gas. USFE&G is responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to native load customers in its Ohio and Kentucky service territories. USFE&G’s natural gas procurement strategy is to buy firm natural gas supplies (natural gas intended to be available at all times) and firm interstate pipeline transportation capacity during the winter season (November through March) and during the non-heating season (April through October) through a combination of firm supply and transportation capacity along with spot supply and interruptible transportation capacity. This strategy allows USFE&G to assure reliable natural gas supply for its high priority (non-curtailable) firm customers during peak winter conditions and provides USFE&G the flexibility to reduce its contract commitments if firm customers choose alternate gas suppliers under USFE&G customer choice/gas transportation programs. In 2011, firm supply purchase commitment agreements provided approximately 100% of the natural gas supply. These firm supply agreements feature two levels of gas supply, specifically (i.) base load, which is a continuous supply to meet normal demand requirements, and (ii.) swing load, which is gas available on a daily basis to accommodate changes in demand due primarily to changing weather conditions.  

USFE&G also owns two underground caverns with a total storage capacity of 16 million gallons of liquid propane. In addition, USFE&G has access to 5.5 million gallons of liquid propane storage and product loan through a commercial services agreement with a third party. This liquid propane is used in the three propane/air peak shaving plants located in Ohio and Kentucky. Propane/air peak shaving plants vaporize the propane and mix it with natural gas to supplement the natural gas supply during peak demand periods.  

USFE&G maintains natural gas procurement-price volatility mitigation programs for Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky. These programs pre-arrange percentages of seasonal gas requirements for Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky use primarily fixed-price forward contracts and contracts with a ceiling and floor on the price. As of December 31, 2011, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky, combined, had locked in pricing for 19% of their winter 2012/2013 system load requirements.  

USFE&G is also responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to the gas turbine generators to serve native electric load customers in the Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky service territories. The natural gas procurement strategy is to contract with one or several suppliers who buy spot market natural gas supplies along with firm or interruptible interstate pipeline transportation capacity for deliveries to the sites. This strategy allows for competitive pricing, flexibility of delivery, and reliable natural gas supplies to each of the natural gas plants. In addition, Duke Energy Carolinas entered into a 20 year contract for firm capacity to serve a portion of the Buck and Dan River facilities. Many of the natural gas plants can be served by several supply zones and multiple pipelines.  

Nuclear. The industrial processes for producing nuclear generating fuel generally involve the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, the services to convert uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the services to enrich the uranium hexafluoride, and the services to fabricate the enriched uranium hexafluoride into usable fuel assemblies.  

Duke Energy Carolinas has contracted for uranium materials and services to fuel the Oconee, McGuire and Catawba Nuclear Stations in the Carolinas. Uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services are primarily met through a diversified portfolio of long-term supply contracts. The contracts are diversified by supplier, country of origin and pricing. Duke Energy Carolinas staggers its contracting so that its portfolio of long-term contracts covers the majority of its fuel requirements at Oconee, McGuire and Catawba in the near-term and decreasing portions of its fuel requirements over time thereafter. Near-term requirements not met by long-term supply contracts have been and are expected to be fulfilled with spot market purchases. Due to the technical complexities of changing suppliers of fuel fabrication services, Duke Energy Carolinas generally sources these services to a single domestic supplier on a plant-by-plant basis using multi-year contracts.  

Duke Energy Carolinas has entered into fuel contracts that, based on its current need projections, cover 100% of the uranium concentrates, conversion services, and enrichment services requirements of the Oconee, McGuire and Catawba Nuclear Stations through at least 2013 and cover fabrication services requirements for these plants through at least 2018. For subsequent years, a portion of the fuel requirements at Oconee, McGuire and Catawba are covered by long-term contracts. For future requirements not already covered under long-term contracts, Duke Energy Carolinas believes it will be able to renew contracts as they expire, or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services.  

Energy Efficiency. Several factors have led to increased focus on energy efficiency, including environmental constraints, increasing costs of generating plants and legislative mandates regarding building codes and appliance efficiencies. As a result of these factors, Duke Energy has developed various programs designed to promote the efficient use of electricity by its customers. These programs and associated compensation mechanisms have been filed with various state commissions over the past several years.  

In February 2009, the NCUC approved Duke Energy Carolinas’ energy efficiency programs and authorized Duke Energy Carolinas to implement its rate rider pending approval of a final compensation mechanism by the NCUC. Duke Energy Carolinas began offering energy conservation programs to North Carolina retail customers and billing a conservation-program only rider on June 1, 2009. In October 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas also began offering demand response programs in North Carolina. In December 2009, the NCUC approved the save-a-watt compensation mechanism and, effective January 1, 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas began billing a rate rider reflecting both conservation and demand response programs. Since that time, additional programs have been filed by Duke Energy Carolinas and approved by the NCUC for delivery under the save-a-watt mechanism. The save-a-watt programs and compensation approach in North Carolina are approved through December 31, 2013.  

Duke Energy Carolinas began offering demand response and conservation programs to South Carolina retail customers effective June 1, 2009. In January 2010, the PSCSC approved a save-a-watt rider for Duke Energy Carolinas’ energy efficiency programs. Duke Energy Carolinas began billing this rider to retail customers February 1, 2010. Since that time, additional programs have been filed by Duke Energy Carolinas and approved by the PSCSC for delivery under the save-a-watt mechanism. The save-a-watt programs and compensation approach in South Carolina are approved through December 31, 2013.  

Save-a-watt was approved by the PUCO in December 2008, in conjunction with the Electric Security Plan (ESP), and Duke Energy Ohio began offering programs and billing a rate rider effective January 1, 2009. Save-a-watt was approved in Ohio through December 31, 2011. A shared-savings compensation mechanism was filed with the PUCO on July 20, 2011, with a proposed effective date of January 1, 2012. Approval of Duke Energy Ohio’s shared-savings mechanism is pending with the PUCO.  

On September 28, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition for new energy efficiency programs to enable meeting the IURC’s energy efficiency mandates. Duke Energy Indiana’s proposal requests recovery of costs through a rider including lost revenues and incentives for “core plus” energy efficiency programs and lost revenues and cost recovery for “core” energy efficiency programs. The hearing occurred in July 2011 and an order is expected in the first quarter of 2012.  

In January 2010, Duke Energy Kentucky withdrew the application to implement save-a-watt. Energy efficiency programs continue under Duke Energy Kentucky’s existing demand-side management program.  

SmartGrid and Distributed Renewable Generation Demonstration Project. Duke Energy Indiana filed a petition and case-in-chief testimony, supporting its request to build an intelligent distribution grid in Indiana. The proposal requested approval of distribution formula  

13  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 rates or, in the alternative, a SmartGrid rider to recover the return on and of the capital costs of the build-out and the recovery of incremental operating and maintenance expenses. Duke Energy Indiana filed supplemental testimony in January 2009 to reflect the impacts of new favorable tax treatment on the cost/benefit analysis for SmartGrid. In response to issues raised by intervenors, Duke Energy Indiana filed rebuttal testimony agreeing to slow its deployment, and agreeing to work with the parties collaboratively to design time differentiated rate and energy management system pilots. During 2009, filings by intervenors and Duke Energy Indiana have been made that address various issues related to SmartGrid. On April 16, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana filed supplemental testimony in support of a revised SmartGrid proposal. An evidentiary hearing was held in July 2010. The IURC issued an order on October 19, 2011, dismissing the case, without prejudice or consideration of the merits of the case, due to the substantial delay in adjudication. Duke Energy will be evaluating its future plans for the demonstration of SmartGrid technology in Indiana.  

Duke Energy Ohio received approval to recover expenditures incurred to deploy the SmartGrid infrastructure in December 2008 in conjunction with the approval of Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP filing. In June 2009, Duke Energy Ohio filed an application to establish rates for return of its SmartGrid net costs incurred for gas and electric distribution service through the end of 2008. The rider for recovering electric SmartGrid costs was approved by the PUCO in its order approving the ESP. Duke Energy Ohio proposed its gas SmartGrid rider as part of its most recent gas distribution rate case. A Stipulation and Recommendation was entered into by Duke Energy Ohio, Staff of the PUCO, Kroger Company, and Ohio Partners for Affordable Energy, which provides for a revenue increase of $4.2 million under the electric rider and $590,000 under the natural gas rider. Approval of the Stipulation and Recommendation occurred in May 2010. Duke Energy Ohio filed its application for 2009 cost recovery in July 2010 and a Stipulation and Recommendation was filed on February 14, 2011, which provides for a revenue requirement increase of $8.7 million under the electric rider and $5 million under the gas rider. The PUCO approved the Stipulation on March 23, 2010. On June 30, 2011, Duke Energy Ohio filed its application for 2010 cost recovery. As part of the Stipulation and Recommendation, Duke Energy Ohio agreed to include a mid-deployment summary and review with its second quarter 2011 filing outlining its expenditures, deployment milestones, system performance levels and customer benefits in comparison to those outlined in the original plan. The PUCO has also begun an audit of the program, the results of which will be addressed in the case seeking recovery of 2010 costs.  

Duke Energy Business Services was awarded a $200 million SmartGrid investment grant from the DOE in October 2009. The original grant application was based on a scaled SmartGrid deployment in Ohio and Indiana and a distribution automation pilot in Kentucky. However, due to the regulatory activities in Indiana described above, the project was re-scoped to include a phased-in approach in Indiana and additional deployments in Kentucky, North Carolina and South Carolina. The re-scoped grant was finalized with the DOE in May 2010. Subsequent to the re-scoping of the grant, as mentioned above, the IURC denied Duke Energy Indiana’s proposed SmartGrid pilot without prejudice and Duke Energy Indiana is currently evaluating its future SmartGrid plans and timing.  

Renewable Energy. Concerns of climate change and energy security, carbon emissions and a desire to stimulate energy related to economic development have resulted in rising government support of renewable energy legislation at both the federal and state level. For example, the North Carolina legislation (SB 3) established a renewable energy and energy efficiency portfolio standard (REPS) for electric utilities, and in 2008, the state of Ohio also passed legislation that included renewable energy and advanced energy targets. With the passage of Senate Bill 221 (SB 221) in Ohio in 2008, Duke Energy Ohio is required to secure renewable energy and include an increasing percentage of renewables as part of its resource portfolio. The compliance percentages are based on a three-year historical average of its Standard Service Offer load. The requirements begin at 0.25% of the baseline load from all renewable resources, including 0.004% to be specifically from solar beginning in 2009, increasing to 12.5% total renewable, with 0.5% from solar by 2024. Of these percentages, at least 50% of each resource type must come from resources located within the state of Ohio. To address this legislation, Duke Energy Ohio initiated several acquisition activities focused on meeting the specific near-term 2009, 2010 and 2011 requirements. Effective December 10, 2009, the PUCO adopted a set of reporting standards known as “Green Rules” which will regulate energy efficiency, alternative energy generation requirements and emission reporting for activities mandated by SB 221.  

The North Carolina REPS was enacted in 2007 as part of SB 3 and became effective January 1, 2008. SB 3 requires that renewable energy must equal 0.02% of retail sales beginning in 2010 and increases to 12.5% by 2021. A portion of the requirement may be met through energy efficiency programs (less than 25% until 2020 and less than 40% thereafter). A portion may also be met through purchases of unbundled out-of-state renewable energy credits (less than 25%). Duke Energy Carolinas recovers the majority of costs associated with renewable compliance through rate rider regulatory recovery; these costs apply only to North Carolina customers. REPS rider charges are statutorily capped in order to limit the impact of renewable compliance costs on customers and spending beyond the cost cap is not required.  

The Indiana state legislature passed Senate Bill 251 in 2011, establishing a Voluntary Portfolio Standard. IURC rulemaking is underway with final rules expected mid-2012.  

Duke Energy Carolinas expects to be deemed in full compliance with these requirements in 2012, subject to NCUC order, and Duke Energy Ohio also expects to be in full compliance with these requirements in 2012.  

Inventory  

Generation of electricity is capital-intensive. USFE&G must maintain an adequate stock of fuel, materials and supplies in order to ensure continuous operation of generating facilities and reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31, 2011, the inventory balance for USFE&G was $1,356 million. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for additional information.  

Nuclear Insurance and Decommissioning  

Duke Energy Carolinas owns and operates the McGuire and Oconee Nuclear Stations and operates and has a partial ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. The McGuire and the Catawba Nuclear Stations each have two nuclear reactors and the Oconee Nuclear Station has three. Nuclear insurance includes: nuclear liability coverage; property, decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and business interruption and/or extra expense coverage. The other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station reimburse Duke Energy Carolinas for certain expenses associated with nuclear insurance premiums per the Catawba Nuclear Station joint owner agreements. The Price-Anderson Act requires Duke Energy Carolinas to provide for public nuclear liability claims resulting from nuclear incidents to the maximum total financial protection liability, which currently is $12.6 billion. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies—Nuclear Insurance,” for more information.  

Duke Energy Carolinas has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and decommission and decontaminate the plant safely. The NCUC and the PSCSC require that Duke Energy Carolinas updates its cost estimate for decommissioning its nuclear plants every five years, the most recent site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies were completed in January 2009 and showed total estimated nuclear decommissioning costs, including the cost to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination, of $3 billion in 2008 dollars. This estimate includes Duke Energy Carolinas’ 19.25% ownership interest in the Catawba Nuclear Station. The other joint owners of the Catawba Nuclear Station are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their ownership interests in the station. The balance of the external Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds (NDTF) was $2,060 million as of December 31, 2011 and $2,014 million as of December 31, 2010. Both the NCUC and the PSCSC have allowed Duke Energy Carolinas to  

14  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail rates over the expected remaining service periods of Duke Energy Carolinas’ nuclear stations. Duke Energy Carolinas believes that the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with the existing fund balance and expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for more information.  

Regulation  

State  

The NCUC, the PSCSC, the PUCO, the IURC and the KPSC (collectively, the state utility commissions) approve rates for retail electric service within their respective states. In addition, the PUCO and the KPSC approve rates for retail gas distribution service within their respective states. The state utility commissions, except for the PUCO, also have authority over the construction and operation of USFE&G’s generating facilities. CPCN’s issued by the state utility commissions, as applicable, authorize USFE&G to construct and operate its electric facilities, and to sell electricity to retail and wholesale customers. Prior approval from the relevant state utility commission is required for Duke Energy’s regulated operating companies to issue securities.  

Duke Energy Carolinas 2011 North Carolina Rate Case. In January 2012, the NCUC approved a settlement agreement between Duke Energy Carolinas and the North Carolina Utilities Public Staff (Public Staff) to limit Duke Energy Carolinas to an average 7.2% increase in retail rates, or approximately $309 million. The terms of the agreement included a 10.5% return on equity and a capital structure of 53% equity and 47% long-term debt. Revised rates went into effect in February 2012.  

Duke Energy Carolinas 2011 South Carolina Rate Case. In January 2012, the PSCSC approved a settlement agreement between Duke Energy Carolinas, the Office of Regulatory Staff (ORS), Wal-Mart Stores East, LP, and Sam’s East, Inc. The terms of the agreement included an average 6.0% increase in retail and commercial revenues, or approximately $93 million. The proposed settlement included a 10.5% return on equity and a capital structure of 53% equity and 47% long-term debt. Revised rates went into effect in February 2012.  

Duke Energy Carolinas 2009 North Carolina Rate Case. In December 2009, the NCUC approved a settlement agreement between Duke Energy Carolinas and the North Carolina Public Staff. The terms of the agreement included a base rate increase of $315 million (or 8%) phased in primarily over a two-year period beginning January 1, 2010. In order to mitigate the impact of the increase on customers, the agreement provided for (i) a one-year delay in the collection of financing costs related to the Cliffside modernization project until January 1, 2011; and (ii) the accelerated return of certain regulatory liabilities to customers which lowered the total impact to customer bills to an increase of 7%. The settlement included a 10.7% return on equity and a capital structure of 52.5% equity and 47.5% long-term debt.  

Duke Energy Carolinas 2009 South Carolina Rate Case. In January 2010, the PSCSC approved a settlement agreement filed by Duke Energy Carolinas, Office of Regulatory Staff (ORS), and South Carolina Energy Users Committee (SCEUC) The terms of the agreement included (i) a $74 million increase in base rates, (ii) an allowed return on equity of 11% with rates set at a return on equity of 10.7% and capital structure of 53% equity, and (iii) various riders, including one that provides for the return of Demand Side Management (DSM) charges previously collected from customers over three years, and another that provides for a storm reserve provision allowing Duke Energy Carolinas to collect $5 million annually (up to a maximum funding level of $50 million accumulating in reserves) to be used against large storm costs in any particular period. The new rates were effective February 1, 2010.  

Duke Energy Ohio Standard Service Offer (SSO) Filing. The PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio’s new ESP in November 2011. The ESP includes competitive auctions for electricity supply for a term of January 1, 2012 through May 31, 2015. The ESP also includes a provision for a non-bypassable stability charge of $110 million per year to be collected from 2012-2014 and requires Duke Energy Ohio to transfer its generation assets to a non-regulated affiliate on or before December 31, 2014. Duke Energy Ohio’s USFE&G segment successfully conducted initial auctions in December 2011 to serve SSO customers effective January 2012. New rates for Duke Energy Ohio went into effect for SSO customers in January 2012.  

The new ESP effectively separates the generation of electricity from Duke Energy Ohio’s retail load obligation. Duke Energy Ohio’s retail load obligation is satisfied through competitive auctions, the costs of which are recovered from customers. As a result, Duke Energy Ohio now earns margin on the transmission and distribution of electricity only and not on the cost of the underlying energy.  

For more information on rate matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters—Rate Related Information.”  

Federal  

The FERC approves USFE&G’s cost-based rates for electric sales to certain wholesale customers, as well as sales of transmission service. Regulations of FERC and the state utility commissions govern access to regulated electric and gas customer and other data by non-regulated entities, and services provided between regulated and non-regulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of non-regulated affiliates with USFE&G.  

Regional Transmission Organizations. Duke Energy Indiana is a transmission owner in a regional transmission organization (RTO) operated by the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (Midwest ISO), a non-profit organization which maintains functional control over the combined transmission systems of its members. In 2005, the Midwest ISO began administering an energy market within its footprint and in January 2009 it began administering an ancillary services market. Additionally, in April 2009, the Midwest ISO began administering a voluntary capacity auction, and in June 2009, instituted a tariff based capacity requirement.  

The Midwest ISO is the provider of transmission service requested on the transmission facilities under its tariff. It is responsible for the reliable operation of those transmission facilities and the regional planning of new transmission facilities. The Midwest ISO administers energy markets utilizing Locational Marginal Pricing (i.e., the energy price for the next MW may vary throughout the Midwest ISO market based on transmission congestion and energy losses) as the methodology for relieving congestion on the transmission facilities under its functional control.  

Effective January 1, 2012, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky became transmission owners in a RTO operated by PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM). PJM operates in a manner similar to the Midwest ISO as described above. Prior to this date, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky were transmission owners in the Midwest ISO.  

Other  

USFE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC for the design, construction and operation of its nuclear generating facilities. In 2000, the NRC renewed the operating license for Duke Energy Carolinas’ three Oconee nuclear units through 2033 for Units 1 and 2 and through 2034 for Unit 3. In 2003, the NRC renewed the operating licenses for all units at Duke Energy Carolinas’ McGuire and Catawba stations. The two McGuire units are licensed through 2041 and 2043, respectively, while the two Catawba units are licensed through 2043.  

All but one of USFE&G’s hydroelectric generating facilities are licensed by the FERC under Part I of the Federal Power Act. The FERC has jurisdiction to issue new hydroelectric operating licenses when the existing license expires. The 13 hydroelectric stations of the Catawba-Wateree Project are in the late stages of the FERC relicensing process. These stations continue to operate under annual extensions of the current FERC license, which expired in 2008, until the FERC issues a new license, which is currently projected to be issued in late 2012. Relicensing is now underway for two hydroelectric stations comprising the Keowee-Toxaway Project. The current Keowee-Toxaway Project license does not expire until 2016 and the project will continue to operate under the current license until the new license is issued. All other hydroelectric stations are operating under current operating licenses, including ten hydroelectric stations (in the East Fork,  

15  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 West Fork, Nantahala, Bryson, Mission, Franklin, and Markland Projects) for which new licenses were issued in 2010 through 2012. Duke Energy expects to receive new licenses for all applicable hydroelectric facilities with the exception of the Dillsboro Project, for which Duke Energy requested and the FERC approved license surrender. Duke Energy Carolinas has removed the Dillsboro Project dam and powerhouse as part of multi-project and multi-stakeholder agreements and Duke Energy Carolinas is continuing with stream restoration and post-removal monitoring as requested by FERC’s license surrender order.  

USFE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and state and local environmental agencies. For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section.  

See “Other Issues” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and other EPA regulations under development and the potential impacts such legislation and regulation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.  

COMMERCIAL POWER  

Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances related to these plants as well as other contractual positions. Commercial Power’s generation operations, excluding renewable energy generation assets, consist primarily of coal-fired and gas-fired non-regulated generation assets which are dispatched into wholesale markets. These assets are comprised of 7,550 net MW of power generation primarily located in the Midwestern U.S. The asset portfolio has a diversified fuel mix with base-load and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle and peaking natural gas-fired units. The coal-fired generation assets were dedicated under the Duke Energy Ohio ESP through December 31, 2011. As discussed in the USFE&G section above, the new ESP effectively separates the generation of electricity from Duke Energy Ohio’s retail load obligation as of January 1, 2012. As a result, Duke Energy Ohio’s coal-fired generation assets no longer serve retail load customers or receive negotiated pricing under the ESP. The generation assets began selling all of their electricity into wholesale markets in January 2012 and going forward will receive wholesale energy margins and capacity revenues from PJM at rates currently below those previously collected under the prior ESP. These lower energy margins and capacity revenues are expected to be partially offset by a non-bypassable stability charge collected from Duke Energy Ohio’s retail customers through 2014. Commercial Power has fully hedged its forecasted coal-fired generation. Capacity revenues are 100% contracted in PJM through May 2015.  

For information on Commercial Power’s generation facilities, see “Commercial Power” in Item 2, “Properties”  

Commercial Power also has a retail sales subsidiary, Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Duke Energy Retail), which is certified by the PUCO as a Competitive Retail Electric Supplier (CRES) provider in Ohio. Duke Energy Retail serves retail electric customers in southwest, west central and northern Ohio with energy and other energy services at competitive rates. Due to increased levels of customer switching as a result of the competitive markets in Ohio, which is discussed further below, Duke Energy Retail has focused on acquiring customers that had previously been served by Duke Energy Ohio under the ESP, as well as those previously served by other Ohio franchised utilities.  

Through Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. (DEGS), Commercial Power engages in the development, construction and operation of renewable energy projects. Currently, DEGS has a significant pipeline of development projects and approximately 1,100 net MW of renewable generating capacity in operation as of December 31, 2011. In addition, DEGS develops commercial transmission projects. DEGS also owns and operates electric generation for large energy consumers, municipalities, utilities and industrial facilities. DEGS currently manages approximately 3,700 MW of power generation at various sites throughout the U.S.  

Rates and Regulation  

Effective January 1, 2009, Commercial Power’s primarily coal-fired generation assets began operating under the Duke Energy Ohio ESP, which expired on December 31, 2011. Prior to the ESP, these generation assets had been contracted through the Rate Stabilization Plan (RSP), which expired on December 31, 2008.  

Prior to December 17, 2008, Commercial Power did not apply regulatory accounting treatment to any of its operations due to the comprehensive electric deregulation legislation passed by the state of Ohio in 1999. In April 2008, new legislation (SB 221) was passed in Ohio and signed by the Governor of Ohio in May 2008. This law codified the PUCO’s authority to approve an electric utility’s Standard Service Offer either through an ESP or a Market Rate Offer (MRO), which is a price determined through a competitive bidding process. In July 2008, Duke Energy Ohio filed an ESP and, with certain amendments, the ESP was approved by the PUCO on December 17, 2008. The approval of the ESP on December 17, 2008 resulted in the reapplication of regulatory accounting treatment to certain portions of Commercial Power’s operations as of that date. The ESP became effective on January 1, 2009.  

Despite certain portions of the Ohio retail load operations not meeting the criteria for applying regulatory accounting treatment, all of Commercial Power’s Ohio retail load operations’ rates were subject to approval by the PUCO through December 2011, and thus these operations, through December 31, 2011, were referred to here-in as Commercial Power’s regulated operations.  

As discussed in the USFE&G section above, the PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio’s new ESP in November 2011.In November 2011, as a result of changes resulting from the PUCO’s approval of the new ESP, Commercial Power stopped applying regulatory accounting treatment to its Ohio operations. As of December 31, 2011, no portion of Commercial Power applies regulatory accounting.  

For more information on rate matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters—Rate Related Information.”  

Commercial Power is subject to regulation at the federal level, primarily from FERC. Regulations of FERC govern access to regulated electric customer and other data by non-regulated entities, and services provided between regulated and non-regulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of Commercial Power.  

Commercial Power is subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental agencies. (For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section.)  

See “Other Issues” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.  

Market Environment and Competition  

Commercial Power competes for wholesale contracts for the purchase and sale of electricity, coal, natural gas and emission allowances. The market price of commodities and services, along with the quality and reliability of services provided, drive competition in the energy marketing business. Commercial Power’s main competitors include other non-regulated generators in the Midwestern U.S., wholesale power providers, coal and natural gas suppliers, and renewable energy.  

Fuel Supply  

Commercial Power relies on coal and natural gas for its generation of electric energy.  

Coal. Commercial Power meets its coal demand through a portfolio of purchase supply contracts and spot agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under supply contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. Commercial  

16  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 Power uses spot-market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by supply contracts. Expiration dates for its supply contracts, which have various price adjustment provisions and market re-openers, range through 2018. Commercial Power expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with other suppliers for the quantities and quality of coal required as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. The majority of Commercial Power’s coal is sourced from mines in the Northern Appalachian and Illinois basins. Commercial Power has an adequate supply of coal to fuel its projected 2012 operations. The majority of Commercial Power’s coal-fired generation is equipped with flue gas desulfurization equipment. As a result, Commercial Power is able to satisfy the current emission limitations for SO2 for existing facilities.  

Gas. Commercial Power is responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to its gas turbine generators. In general Commercial Power hedges its natural gas requirements using financial contracts. Physical gas is purchased in the spot market to meet generation needs.  

INTERNATIONAL ENERGY  

International Energy principally operates and manages power generation facilities and engages in sales and marketing of electric power, natural gas, and natural gas liquids outside the U.S. It conducts operations through Duke Energy International, LLC (DEI) and its affiliates and its activities principally target power generation in Latin America. Additionally, International Energy owns a 25% interest in National Methanol Company (NMC), a large regional producer of methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) located in Saudi Arabia. The investment in NMC is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. International Energy has a 25% ownership interest in Attiki Gas Supply S.A. (Attiki), a natural gas distributor located in Athens, Greece, which was accounted for under the equity method of accounting through December 31, 2009. In January 2010, the counterparty to Attiki’s non-recourse debt issued a notice of default due to Duke Energy’s failure to make a scheduled semi-annual installment payment of principal and interest in November 2009 and following Duke Energy’s December 2009 decision to abandon its investment in Attiki and the related non-recourse debt. In December 2011, Duke Energy entered into an agreement to sell its ownership interest to an existing equity owner in a series of transactions that will result in full discharge of its debt obligation; the transaction is scheduled to close in March 2012. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates and Related Party Transactions,” for additional information.  

International Energy’s customers include retail distributors, electric utilities, independent power producers, marketers and industrial/commercial companies. International Energy’s current strategy is focused on optimizing the value of its current Latin American portfolio and expanding the portfolio through investment in generation opportunities in Latin America.  

International Energy owns, operates or has substantial interests in approximately 4,600 gross MW of generation facilities. For information on International Energy’s generation facilities, see “International Energy” in Item 2, “Properties”  

Competition and Regulation  

International Energy’s sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas competes directly with other generators and marketers serving its market areas. Competitors are country and region-specific but include government-owned electric generating companies, local distribution companies with self-generation capability and other privately-owned electric generating and marketing companies. The principal elements of competition are price and availability, terms of service, flexibility and reliability of service.  

A high percentage of International Energy’s portfolio consists of baseload hydroelectric generation facilities which compete with other forms of electric generation available to International Energy’s customers and end-users, including natural gas and fuel oils. Economic activity, conservation, legislation, governmental regulations, weather, additional generation capacities and other factors affect the supply and demand for electricity in the regions served by International Energy. International Energy’s operations are subject to both country-specific and international laws and regulations. (See “Environmental Matters” in this section.)  

OTHER  

The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. While it is not an operating segment, Other primarily includes certain unallocated corporate costs, Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison), Duke Energy’s wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary, contributions to the Duke Energy Foundation, Duke Energy’s effective 50% interest in DukeNet Communications, LLC (DukeNet) and related telecom businesses, and Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (DETM), which is 40% owned by Exxon Mobil Corporation and 60% owned by Duke Energy and management is currently in the process of winding down.  

Bison’s principal activities as a captive insurance entity include the indemnification of various business risks and losses, such as property, business interruption, workers’ compensation and general liability of subsidiaries and affiliates of Duke Energy. DukeNet develops, owns and operates a fiber optic communications network, primarily in the southeast U.S., serving wireless, local and long-distance communications companies, internet service providers and other businesses and organizations.  

Regulation  

The entities within Other are subject to the jurisdiction of state and local agencies.  

GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS  

For a discussion of Duke Energy’s foreign operations see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations” and Notes 3 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments” and “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” respectively.  

EMPLOYEES  

On December 31, 2011, Duke Energy had 18,249 employees. A total of 4,445 operating and maintenance employees were represented by unions.  

17  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF DUKE ENERGY  

STEPHEN G. DE MAY, 49, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer. Mr. De May assumed the role of Treasurer in November 2007 and in October 2009 Mr. De May assumed additional responsibility for investor relations. Prior to that, he served as Assistant Treasurer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. De May served as Vice President, Energy and Environmental Policy of Duke Energy since February 2004.  

LYNN J. GOOD, 52, Group Executive and Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Good assumed her current position in July 2009. In November 2007, Ms. Good began serving as President, Commercial Businesses. Prior to that, she served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer since December 2006; prior to that she served as Treasurer and Vice President, Financial Planning since October 2006; and prior to that she served as Vice President and Treasurer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Ms. Good served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cinergy from August 2005 and Vice President, Finance and Controller of Cinergy from November 2003 to August 2005.  

DHIAA M. JAMIL, 55, Group Executive, Chief Generation Officer and Chief Nuclear Officer. Mr. Jamil assumed his position as Chief Generation Officer in July 2009 and his position as Chief Nuclear Officer in February 2008. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President, Nuclear Support, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC since January 2007; and prior to that he served as Vice President, Catawba Nuclear Station, since July 2003.  

MARC E. MANLY, 59, Group Executive, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Manly assumed the role of Corporate Secretary in December 2008 and assumed position of Chief Legal Officer in April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Manly served as Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Cinergy since November 2002.  

JAMES E. ROGERS, 64, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Rogers assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer and President in April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy and assumed the role of Chairman on January 2, 2007. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Rogers served as Chairman of the Board of Cinergy since 2000 and as Chief Executive Officer of Cinergy since 1995.  

B. KEITH TRENT, 52, Group Executive and President, Commercial Businesses. Mr. Trent assumed his current position in July 2009. Prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Strategy, Policy and Regulatory Officer since May 2007. Prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Strategy and Policy Officer since October 2006 and prior to that he served as Group Executive and Chief Development Officer since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Trent served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Duke Energy since March 2005. Prior to that he served as General Counsel, Litigation of Duke Energy from May 2002 to March 2005.  

JENNIFER L. WEBER, 45, Group Executive of Human Resources and Corporate Relations. Ms. Weber assumed her current position in January 2011. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2008. Prior to that she served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Scripps Networks Interactive from 2005 to 2008.  

STEVEN K. YOUNG, 53, Senior Vice President and Controller. Mr. Young assumed his current position in December 2006. Prior to that he served as Vice President and Controller since April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy. Until the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, Mr. Young served as Vice President and Controller of Duke Energy since June 2005. Prior to that Mr. Young served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Duke Energy Carolinas from March 2003 to June 2005.  

Executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected.  

There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person involved in officer selection.  

GENERAL  

Duke Energy Subsidiary Registrant Overview.  

Duke Energy Carolinas. Duke Energy Carolinas generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity in central and western North Carolina and western South Carolina. Duke Energy Carolinas is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, the PSCSC, the NRC and FERC. Duke Energy Carolinas operates one reportable business segment, Franchised Electric, which generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity. Substantially all of Franchised Electric operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting treatment. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area covers 24,000 square miles with an estimated population of 6.8 million and supplies electric service to 2.4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. See Item 2. “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Carolinas’ generating facilities, transmission and distribution.  

The remainder of Duke Energy Carolinas’ operations is presented as Other. Although it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily consists of certain governance costs allocated by its parent, Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy Ohio. Duke Energy Ohio is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cinergy, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. Duke Energy Ohio is a combination electric and gas public utility that provides service in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky through its wholly-owned subsidiary Duke Energy Kentucky, as well as electric generation in parts of Ohio, Illinois, Indiana and Pennsylvania. Duke Energy Ohio’s principal lines of business include generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, the sale of and/or transportation of natural gas, and energy marketing. Duke Energy Kentucky’s principal lines of business include generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, as well as the sale of and/or transportation of natural gas. References herein to Duke Energy Ohio include Duke Energy Ohio and its subsidiaries. Duke Energy Ohio is subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUCO, the KPSC and FERC.  

Duke Energy Ohio Business Segments. At December 31, 2011, Duke Energy Ohio operated two business segments, both of which are considered reportable segments under the applicable accounting rules: Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

The following is a brief description of the nature of operations of each of Duke Energy Ohio’s reportable business segments, as well as Other:  

Franchised Electric and Gas. Franchised Electric and Gas consists of Duke Energy Ohio’s regulated electric and gas transmission and distribution systems located in Ohio and Kentucky, including its regulated electric generation in Kentucky. Franchised Electric and Gas plans, constructs, operates and maintains Duke Energy Ohio’s transmission and distribution systems, which generate, transmit and distribute electric energy to consumers in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Franchised Electric and Gas also transports and sells natural gas in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Substantially all of Franchised Electric and Gas’ operations are regulated and, accordingly, these operations qualify for regulatory accounting treatment.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s Franchised Electric and Gas service area covers 3,000 square miles with an estimated population of 2.1 million and supplies electric service to 830,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers and provides regulated transmission and  

18  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 distribution services for natural gas to 500,000 customers. See Item 2. “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Ohio’s Franchised Electric and Gas generating facilities.  

Commercial Power. Commercial Power owns, operates and manages power plants and engages in the wholesale marketing and procurement of electric power, fuel and emission allowances related to these plants, as well as other contractual positions. Commercial Power’s generation operations consists of primarily coal-fired generation assets located in Ohio which were dedicated under the Duke Energy Ohio ESP through December 31, 2011 and are dispatched into wholesale markets effective January 1, 2012 and gas-fired non-regulated generation assets which are dispatched into wholesale markets. These assets are comprised of 7,550 net MW of power generation primarily located in the Midwestern U.S. The asset portfolio has a diversified fuel mix with base-load and mid-merit coal-fired units as well as combined cycle and peaking natural gas-fired units. Duke Energy Ohio’s Commercial Power reportable operating segment does not include the operations of DEGS or Duke Energy Retail, which is included in the Commercial Power reportable operating segment at Duke Energy. See Item 2. “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Ohio’s Commercial Power generating facilities.  

The PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio’s new ESP in November 2011. The ESP includes competitive auctions for electricity supply for a term of January 1, 2012 through May 31, 2015. The ESP also includes a provision for a non-bypassable stability charge of $110 million per year to be collected from 2012-2014 and requires Duke Energy Ohio to transfer its generation assets to a non-regulated affiliate on or before December 31, 2014. The FE&G portion of Duke Energy Ohio’s business successfully conducted initial auctions in December 2011 to serve SSO customers effective January 2012. New rates for Duke Energy Ohio went into effect for SSO customers in January 2012.  

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for further discussion related to the ESP.  

Through December 31, 2011, Duke Energy Ohio’s primarily coal-fired assets, as excess capacity allows, also generate revenues through sales outside the ESP load customer base, and such revenue is termed wholesale. In 2011 and 2010 Duke Energy Ohio earned approximately 24% and 13%, respectively, of its consolidated operating revenues from PJM. These revenues relate to the sale of capacity and electricity from the gas-fired non-regulated generation assets. In 2009 no single counterparty contributed 10% or more of consolidated operating revenue.  

Other. The remainder of Duke Energy Ohio’s operations is presented as Other. Although it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily consists of certain governance costs allocated by its ultimate parent, Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana, an Indiana corporation organized in 1942, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Cinergy. Duke Energy Indiana generates, transmits and distributes electricity in central, north central, and southern Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana is subject to the regulatory provisions of the IURC and FERC. Duke Energy Indiana operates one reportable business segment, Franchised Electric, which generates, transmits, distributes and sells electricity. The substantial majority of Duke Energy Indiana’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting treatment. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”  

Duke Energy Indiana’s service area covers 23,000 square miles with an estimated population of 3.0 million. Duke Energy Indiana supplies electric service to 790,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers. See Item 2. “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Indiana’s generating facilities, transmission and distribution.  

The remainder of Duke Energy Indiana’s operations is presented as Other. Although it is not considered a business segment, Other primarily includes certain governance costs allocated by its ultimate parent, Duke Energy.  

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Duke Energy is also subject to international laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations affecting the Duke Energy Registrants include, but are not limited to:  

   •    The Clean Air Act (CAA), as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new national ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. Owners and/or operators of air emission sources are responsible for obtaining permits and for annual compliance and reporting.  

   •    The Clean Water Act which requires permits for facilities that discharge wastewaters into the environment.  

   •    The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which can require any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past may have owned or operated a disposal site, as well as transporters or generators of hazardous substances sent to a disposal site, to share in remediation costs.  

   •    The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, which requires certain solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, to be managed pursuant to a comprehensive regulatory regime.  

   •    The National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider potential environmental impacts in their decisions, including siting approvals.  

See “Other Issues” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations. Additionally, other recently passed and potential future environmental laws and regulations could have a significant impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, if and when such laws and regulations become effective, the Duke Energy Registrants will seek appropriate regulatory recovery of costs to comply within its regulated operations.  

For more information on environmental matters involving the Duke Energy Registrants, including possible liability and capital costs, see Notes 4 and 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” and “Commitments and Contingencies—Environmental,” respectively. Except to the extent discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” compliance with current international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of our various business segments and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the competitive position, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Duke Energy Registrants.  

19  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

Item 1A. Risk Factors.