PART I  

Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Unless otherwise indicated, the risk factors discussed below generally relate to risks associated with all of the Duke Energy Registrants. Risks identified at the Subsidiary Registrant level are generally applicable to Duke Energy.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric revenues, earnings and results are dependent on state legislation and regulation that affect electric generation, transmission, distribution and related activities, which may limit Duke Energy’s ability to recover costs.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric businesses are regulated on a cost-of-service/rate-of-return basis subject to the statutes and regulatory commission rules and procedures of North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. If the Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric earnings exceed the returns established by the state regulatory commissions, the Duke Energy Registrants’ retail electric rates may be subject to review and possible reduction by the commissions, which may decrease the Duke Energy Registrants’ future earnings. Additionally, if regulatory bodies do not allow recovery of costs incurred in providing service on a timely basis, the Duke Energy Registrants’ future earnings could be negatively impacted.  

If legislative and regulatory structures were to evolve in such a way that the Duke Energy Registrants’ exclusive rights to serve their franchised customers were eroded, the Duke Energy Registrants’ future earnings could be negatively impacted.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses are subject to extensive federal regulation that will affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations and costs.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to regulation by FERC, the NRC and various other federal agencies. Regulation affects almost every aspect of the Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses, including, among other things, the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to: take fundamental business management actions; determine the terms and rates of the Duke Energy Registrants’ transmission and distribution businesses’ services; make acquisitions; issue equity or debt securities; engage in transactions between the Duke Energy Registrants’ utilities and other subsidiaries and affiliates; and the ability of the operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to the Duke Energy Registrants. Changes to these regulations are ongoing, and the Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on the Duke Energy Registrants’ business. However, changes in regulation (including re-regulating previously deregulated markets) can cause delays in or affect business planning and transactions and can substantially increase the Duke Energy Registrants’ costs.  

The Duke Energy Registrants must meet credit quality standards and there is no assurance that they and their rated subsidiaries will maintain investment grade credit ratings. If the Duke Energy Registrants or their rated subsidiaries are unable to maintain an investment grade credit rating, the Duke Energy Registrants would be required under credit agreements to provide collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash, which may materially adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ liquidity.  

Each of the Duke Energy Registrants and their rated subsidiaries senior unsecured long-term debt is currently rated investment grade by various rating agencies. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot be sure that the senior unsecured long-term debt of the Duke Energy Registrants or their rated subsidiaries will be rated investment grade in the future.  

If the rating agencies were to rate the Duke Energy Registrants or their rated subsidiaries below investment grade, the entities’ borrowing costs would increase, perhaps significantly. In addition, their potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Further, if the Duke Energy Registrants’ short-term debt rating were to fall, the entities’ access to the commercial paper market could be significantly limited. Any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of the Duke Energy Registrants’ subsidiaries could make their costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could increase the Duke Energy Registrants’ need to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus reducing the liquidity and borrowing availability of the consolidated group.  

A downgrade below investment grade could also require the Duke Energy Registrants to post additional collateral in the form of letters of credit or cash under various credit agreements and trigger termination clauses in some interest rate derivative agreements, which would require cash payments. All of these events would likely reduce the Duke Energy Registrants’ liquidity and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Duke Energy relies on access to short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets to finance Duke Energy’s capital requirements and support Duke Energy’s liquidity needs, and Duke Energy’s access to those markets can be adversely affected by a number of conditions, many of which are beyond Duke Energy’s control.  

Duke Energy’s business is financed to a large degree through debt and the maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from Duke Energy’s assets. Accordingly, Duke Energy relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from Duke Energy’s operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt instruments with disparate maturities. If Duke Energy is not able to access capital at competitive rates or at all, Duke Energy’s ability to finance its operations and implement its strategy and business plan as scheduled could be adversely affected. An inability to access capital may limit Duke Energy’s ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that Duke Energy may otherwise rely on for future growth.  

Market disruptions may increase Duke Energy’s cost of borrowing or adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include: economic downturns; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Duke Energy’s facilities or unrelated energy companies; or the overall health of the energy industry. The availability of credit under Duke Energy’s revolving credit facilities depends upon the ability of the banks providing commitments under such facilities to provide funds when their obligations to do so arise. Systematic risk of the banking system and the financial markets could prevent a bank from meeting its obligations under the facility.  

Duke Energy maintains revolving credit facilities to provide back-up for commercial paper programs and/or letters of credit at various entities. These facilities typically include borrowing sublimits for certain subsidiaries and financial covenants which limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of the total capital for the specific entity. Failure to maintain these covenants at a particular entity could preclude Duke Energy from issuing commercial paper or Duke Energy and the particular entity from issuing letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility. Additionally, failure to comply with these financial covenants could result in Duke Energy being required to immediately pay down any outstanding amounts under other revolving credit agreements.  

The Subsidiary Registrants rely on access to short-term intercompany borrowings and longer-term capital markets to finance the Subsidiary Registrants’ capital requirements and support their liquidity needs, and the Subsidiary Registrants’ access to those markets can be adversely affected by a number of conditions, many of which are beyond the Subsidiary Registrants control.  

The Subsidiary Registrants’ businesses are financed to a large degree through debt and the maturity and repayment profile of debt used to finance investments often does not correlate to cash flows from the Subsidiary Registrants’ assets. Accordingly, the Subsidiary Registrants rely on access to short-term borrowings via Duke Energy’s money pool arrangement and financings from longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from its operations and to fund investments originally financed through debt instruments with disparate maturities. If the Subsidiary Registrants are not able to access capital at competitive rates  

20  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 or the Subsidiary Registrants cannot obtain short-term borrowings via the money pool arrangement, their ability to finance their operations and implement their strategy could be adversely affected.  

Market disruptions may increase the Subsidiary Registrants’ cost of borrowing or adversely affect the Subsidiary Registrants’ ability to access one or more financial markets. Such disruptions could include: economic downturns; the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company; capital market conditions generally; market prices for electricity and gas; terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on the Subsidiary Registrants’ facilities or unrelated energy companies; or the overall health of the energy industry. Restrictions on the Subsidiary Registrants’ ability to access financial markets may also affect its ability to execute its business plan as scheduled. An inability to access capital may limit the Subsidiary Registrants’ ability to pursue improvements or acquisitions that it may otherwise rely on for future growth. The availability of credit under Duke Energy’s revolving credit facilities depends upon the ability of the banks providing commitments under such facilities to provide funds when their obligations to do so arise. Systematic risk of the banking system and the financial markets could prevent a bank from meeting its obligations under the facility agreement.  

The Subsidiary Registrants’ ultimate parent, Duke Energy, maintains revolving credit facilities to provide back-up for commercial paper programs and/or letters of credit at various entities. These facilities typically include borrowing sublimits for certain subsidiaries and financial covenants which limit the amount of debt that can be outstanding as a percentage of the total capital for the specific entity. Failure to maintain these covenants at either Duke Energy or the Subsidiary Registrants could preclude Duke Energy or the Subsidiary Registrants from issuing letters of credit or borrowing under the revolving credit facility.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to credit risk of the customers and counterparties with whom the Duke Energy Registrants do business.  

Adverse economic conditions affecting, or financial difficulties of, customers and counterparties with whom the Duke Energy Registrants do business could impair the ability of these customers and counterparties to pay for the Duke Energy Registrants’ services or fulfill their contractual obligations, including loss recovery payments under insurance contracts, or cause them to delay such payments or obligations. The Duke Energy Registrants depend on these customers and counterparties to remit payments on a timely basis. Any delay or default in payment could adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ cash flows, financial position or results of operations.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations that require significant capital expenditures that can increase the Duke Energy Registrants’ cost of operations, and which may impact or limit the Duke Energy Registrants’ business plans, or expose the Duke Energy Registrants to environmental liabilities.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of the Duke Energy Registrants’ present and future operations, including air emissions (such as reducing NOx, SO2 mercury and greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S.), water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste. These laws and regulations can result in increased capital, operating, and other costs. These laws and regulations generally require the Duke Energy Registrants to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can require significant expenditures, including expenditures for cleanup costs and damages arising from contaminated properties, and failure to comply with environmental regulations may result in the imposition of fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets. The steps the Duke Energy Registrants could be required to take to ensure that its facilities are in compliance could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, the Duke Energy Registrants may be required to shut down or alter the operation of their facilities, which may cause the Duke Energy Registrants to incur losses. Further, the Duke Energy Registrants’ regulatory rate structure and the Duke Energy Registrants’ contracts with customers may not necessarily allow the Duke Energy Registrants to recover capital costs the Duke Energy Registrants incur to comply with new environmental regulations. Also, the Duke Energy Registrants may not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for the Duke Energy Registrants’ operating assets or development projects. If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, if the Duke Energy Registrants fail to obtain and comply with them or if environmental laws or regulations change and become more stringent, then the operation of the Duke Energy Registrants’ facilities or the development of new facilities could be prevented, delayed or become subject to additional costs. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no assurance can be made that the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not have such an effect.  

The EPA has proposed new federal regulations governing the management of coal combustion by-products, including fly ash. These regulations may require the Duke Energy Registrants to make additional capital expenditures and increase the Duke Energy Registrants’ operating and maintenance costs.  

Additionally, other potential new environmental regulations, limiting the use of coal acquired from mountaintop removal and imposing additional requirements on water discharges associated with mountaintop removal, could require the Duke Energy Registrants to increase costs of fuel and make additional related capital expenditures. In addition, the Duke Energy Registrants are generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of the Duke Energy Registrants’ power generation facilities and natural gas assets which the Duke Energy Registrants have acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with some acquisitions and sales of assets, the Duke Energy Registrants may obtain, or be required to provide, indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If the Duke Energy Registrants incur a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations to the Duke Energy Registrants, the Duke Energy Registrants could suffer material losses.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcome of which are uncertain, and resolution adverse to the Duke Energy Registrants could negatively affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to numerous legal proceedings, including claims for damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen prior to 1985 from the exposure to or use of asbestos at electric generation plants of Duke Energy Carolinas. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties and the Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of individual matters with assurance. It is reasonably possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which the Duke Energy Registrants are involved could require the Duke Energy Registrants to make additional expenditures, in excess of established reserves, over an extended period of time and in a range of amounts that could have a material effect on the Duke Energy Registrants’ cash flows and results of operations. Similarly, it is reasonably possible that the terms of resolution could require the Duke Energy Registrants to change the Duke Energy Registrants’ business practices and procedures, which could also have a material effect on the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations may be negatively affected by overall market, economic and other conditions that are beyond the Duke Energy Registrants’ control.  

Sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy generally affect the markets in which the Duke Energy Registrants operate and negatively influence the Duke Energy Registrants’ energy operations. Declines in demand for energy as a result of economic downturns in the Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric service territories will reduce overall sales and lessen the Duke Energy Registrants’ cash flows, especially as the Duke Energy Registrants’ industrial customers reduce production and, therefore, consumption of electricity and gas. Although the Duke Energy Registrants’ franchised electric and gas business is subject to regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of  

21  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 certain costs, such as fuel under periodic adjustment clauses, overall declines in electricity sold as a result of economic downturn or recession could reduce revenues and cash flows, thus diminishing results of operations. Additionally, prolonged economic downturns that negatively impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations and cash flows could result in future material impairment charges being recorded to write-down the carrying value of certain assets, including goodwill, to their respective fair values.  

The Duke Energy Registrants also sell electricity into the spot market or other competitive power markets on a contractual basis. With respect to such transactions, the Duke Energy Registrants are not guaranteed any rate of return on the Duke Energy Registrants’ capital investments through mandated rates, and the Duke Energy Registrants’ revenues and results of operations are likely to depend, in large part, upon prevailing market prices in the Duke Energy Registrants’ regional markets and other competitive markets. These market prices may fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time and could reduce the Duke Energy Registrants’ revenues and margins and thereby diminish the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations.  

Factors that could impact sales volumes, generation of electricity and market prices at which Duke Energy is able to sell electricity are as follows:  

   •    weather conditions, including abnormally mild winter or summer weather that cause lower energy usage for heating or cooling purposes, respectively, and periods of low rainfall that decrease the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to operate its facilities in an economical manner;  

   •    supply of and demand for energy commodities;  

   •    transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies which impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ non-regulated energy operations;  

   •    availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, which are preferred by some customers over electricity produced from coal, nuclear or gas plants, and of energy-efficient equipment which reduces energy demand;  

   •    natural gas, crude oil and refined products production levels and prices;  

   •    ability to procure satisfactory levels of inventory, such as coal and uranium;  

   •    electric generation capacity surpluses which cause the Duke Energy Registrants’ non-regulated energy plants to generate and sell less electricity at lower prices and may cause some plants to become non-economical to operate; and  

   •    capacity and transmission service into, or out of, the Duke Energy Registrants’ markets.  

Coal inventory levels have increased due to mild weather, low natural gas and power prices resulting in higher combined cycle gas-fired generation, and the economy’s overall effect on load. Continuation of these factors for an extended period of time, could result in additional costs of managing the coal inventory such as purchased power or other costs. If these costs are not recoverable the Duke Energy Registrants results of operations could be negatively impacted.  

Energy conservation could negatively impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial results.  

Certain regulatory and legislative bodies have introduced or are considering requirements and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Additionally, technological advances driven by federal laws mandating new levels of energy efficiency in end-use electric devices or other improvements in or applications of technology could lead to declines in per capita energy consumption. To the extent conservation results in reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand, the Duke Energy Registrants’ unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. In the Duke Energy Registrants’ regulated operations, conservation could have a negative impact depending on the regulatory treatment of the associated impacts. The Duke Energy Registrants currently have energy efficiency riders in place to recover the cost of energy efficiency programs in North Carolina, South Carolina, Ohio and Kentucky. Should the Duke Energy Registrants be required to invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation, regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative financial impact.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.  

Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In most parts of the U.S., and other markets in which the Duke Energy Registrants operate, demand for power peaks during the warmer summer months, with market prices typically peaking at that time. In other areas, demand for power peaks during the winter. Further, extreme weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms could cause these seasonal fluctuations to be more pronounced. As a result, in the future, the overall operating results of the Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis and thus make period comparison less relevant.  

Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions, including cyber system attacks, could adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses.  

The continued threat of terrorism and the impact of retaliatory military and other action by the U.S. and its allies may lead to increased political, economic and financial market instability and volatility in prices for natural gas and oil which may materially adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants in ways the Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict at this time. In addition, future acts of terrorism and any possible reprisals as a consequence of action by the U.S. and its allies could be directed against companies operating in the U.S. or their international affiliates. Cyber systems, infrastructure and generation facilities such as the Duke Energy Registrants’ nuclear plants could be potential targets of terrorist activities or harmful activities by individuals or groups. The potential for terrorism has subjected the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on the Duke Energy Registrants’ businesses. In particular, the Duke Energy Registrants may experience increased capital and operating costs to implement increased security for its cyber systems and plants, including its nuclear power plants under the NRC’s design basis threat requirements, such as additional physical plant security, additional security personnel or additional capability following a terrorist incident.  

The insurance industry has also been disrupted by these potential events. As a result, the availability of insurance covering risks the Duke Energy Registrants and the Duke Energy Registrants’ competitors typically insure against may decrease. In addition, the insurance the Duke Energy Registrants are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, lower coverage limits and more restrictive policy terms.  

Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Duke Energy Registrants or that the Duke Energy Registrants currently deems to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

Duke Energy Carolinas may incur substantial costs and liabilities due to Duke Energy Carolinas’ ownership and operation of nuclear generating facilities.  

Duke Energy Carolinas’ ownership interest in and operation of three nuclear stations subject Duke Energy Carolinas to various risks including, among other things: the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.  

Duke Energy Carolinas’ ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities requires Duke Energy Carolinas to meet licensing and safety-related requirements imposed by the NRC. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC may increase regulatory oversight, impose fines, and/or shut down a unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation. Revised security and safety requirements promulgated by the NRC, which could be prompted by, among other things, events within or outside of Duke Energy Carolinas’ control, such  

22  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 as a serious nuclear incident at a facility owned by a third-party, could necessitate substantial capital and other expenditures at Duke Energy Carolinas’ nuclear plants, as well as assessments against Duke Energy Carolinas to cover third-party losses. In addition, if a serious nuclear incident were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy Carolinas’ results of operations and financial condition.  

Duke Energy Carolinas’ ownership and operation of nuclear generation facilities also requires Duke Energy Carolinas to maintain funded trusts that are intended to pay for the decommissioning costs of Duke Energy Carolinas’ nuclear power plants. Poor investment performance of these decommissioning trusts’ holdings and other factors impacting decommissioning costs could unfavorably impact Duke Energy Carolinas’ liquidity and results of operations as Duke Energy Carolinas could be required to significantly increase its cash contributions to the decommissioning trusts.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ operating results depend on the successful operation of electric generating facilities and the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to deliver electricity to customers.  

Operating the Duke Energy Registrants’ generating facilities and delivery systems involves many risks, such as operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, including repair and replacement power costs; the inability to adequately manage generation in times of extreme weather (i.e., storms, peak use periods, droughts, etc.); failure of information technology systems and network infrastructure; operational limitations imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; inadequate or unreliable access to transmission and distribution assets; inability to successfully and timely execute repair, maintenance and/or refueling outages; interruptions to the supply of fuel and other commodities used in generation; and failure to adequately forecast system requirement and commodity requirements. Occurrences of these events could adversely affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ plans for future expansion and modernization of the Duke Energy Registrants’ generation fleet subject the Duke Energy Registrants’ to risk of failure to adequately execute and manage its significant construction plans, as well as the risk of not recovering all costs or of recovering costs in an untimely manner, which could materially impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

The completion of the Duke Energy Registrants’ anticipated capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities is subject to many construction and development risks, including, but not limited to, risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards. Moreover, the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to recover all these costs and recovering costs in a timely manner could materially impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ sales may decrease if the Duke Energy Registrants’ are unable to gain adequate, reliable and affordable access to transmission assets.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the electricity the Duke Energy Registrants’ sell to the wholesale market. FERC’s power transmission regulations, as well as those of Duke Energy’s international markets, require wholesale electric transmission services to be offered on an open-access, non-discriminatory basis. If transmission is disrupted, or if transmission capacity is inadequate, the Duke Energy Registrants’ ability to sell and deliver products may be hindered.  

The different regional power markets have changing regulatory structures, which could affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ growth and performance in these regions. In addition, the independent system operators who oversee the transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed in the past, and may impose in the future, price limitations and other mechanisms to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may adversely impact the profitability of the Duke Energy Registrants’ wholesale power marketing business.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s membership in a RTO presents risks that could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  

The price at which Duke Energy Ohio can sell its generation capacity and energy is dependent on a number of factors, which include the overall supply and demand of generation and load, other state legislation or regulation, transmission congestion, and its business rules. As a result, the prices in day–ahead and real–time energy markets and RTO capacity markets are subject to price volatility. Administrative costs imposed by RTOs, including the cost of administering energy markets, are also subject to volatility. PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) conducts Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) base residual auctions for capacity on an annual planning year basis. The results of the PJM RPM base residual auction are impacted by the supply and demand of generation and load and also may be impacted by congestion and PJM rules relating to bidding for Demand Response and Energy Efficiency resources. Auction prices could fluctuate substantially over relatively short periods of time. Duke Energy Ohio cannot predict the outcome of future auctions, but if the auction prices are sustained at low levels, Duke Energy Ohio’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely impacted.  

The rules governing the various regional power markets may also change, which could affect Duke Energy Ohio’s costs and/or revenues. To the degree Duke Energy Ohio incurs significant additional fees and increased costs to participate in an RTO, Duke Energy Ohio’s results of operations may be impacted. Duke Energy Ohio may be allocated a portion of the cost of transmission facilities built by others due to changes in RTO transmission rate design. Duke Energy Ohio may be required to expand its transmission system according to decisions made by an RTO rather than Duke Energy Ohio’s internal planning process. While PJM transmission rates were initially designed to be revenue neutral, various proposals and proceedings currently taking place by the FERC may cause transmission rates to change from time to time. In addition, PJM has been developing rules associated with the allocation and methodology of assigning costs associated with improved transmission reliability, reduced transmission congestion and firm transmission rights that may have a financial impact on Duke Energy Ohio. Duke Energy Ohio may also incur fees and costs to participate in PJM.  

As a member of an RTO, Duke Energy Ohio is subject to certain additional risks, including those associated with the allocation among PJM members, of losses caused by unreimbursed defaults of other participants in the PJM market and those associated with complaint cases filed against PJM that may seek refunds of revenues previously earned by PJM members, including Duke Energy Ohio.  

Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may result in increased competition and unrecovered costs that could adversely affect Duke Energy Carolinas’ and Duke Energy Indiana’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows and Duke Energy Carolinas’ and Duke Energy Indiana’s utility businesses.  

Increased competition resulting from deregulation or restructuring efforts, including from the Energy Policy Act of 2005, could have a significant adverse financial impact on Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Indiana and their utility subsidiaries and consequently on Duke Energy Carolinas’ and Duke Energy Indiana’s results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. Increased competition could also result in increased pressure to lower costs, including the cost of electricity. Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy and gas service could have a significant adverse financial impact on Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Indiana and their subsidiaries due to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins or increased costs of capital. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Indiana cannot predict the extent and timing of entry by additional competitors into the electric markets. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Indiana cannot predict when they will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Indiana predict the impact of these changes on their financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

23  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks may delay or reduce Duke Energy’s realization of value from Duke Energy’s international projects.  

Duke Energy currently owns and may acquire and/or dispose of material energy-related investments and projects outside the U.S. The economic, regulatory, market and political conditions in some of the countries where Duke Energy has interests or in which Duke Energy may explore development, acquisition or investment opportunities could present risks related to, among others, Duke Energy’s ability to obtain financing on suitable terms, Duke Energy’s customers’ ability to honor their obligations with respect to projects and investments, delays in construction, limitations on Duke Energy’s ability to enforce legal rights, and interruption of business, as well as risks of war, expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law, regulations, market rules or tax policy.  

Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the United States expose Duke Energy to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates. These risks, and Duke Energy’s activities to mitigate such risks, may adversely affect Duke Energy’s cash flows and results of operations.  

Duke Energy’s operations and investments outside the U.S. expose Duke Energy to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates. As each local currency’s value changes relative to the U.S. dollar—Duke Energy’s principal reporting currency—the value in U.S. dollars of Duke Energy’s assets and liabilities in such locality and the cash flows generated in such locality, expressed in U.S. dollars, also change. Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure is to the Brazilian Real.  

Duke Energy selectively mitigates some risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations by, among other things, indexing contracts to the U.S. dollar and/or local inflation rates, hedging through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency and hedging through foreign currency derivatives. These efforts, however, may not be effective and, in some cases, may expose Duke Energy to other risks that could negatively affect Duke Energy’s cash flows and results of operations.  

Poor investment performance of the Duke Energy pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ liquidity and results of operations.  

Duke Energy’s costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and Duke Energy’s required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. The Subsidiary Registrants participate in employee benefit plans sponsored by their parent, Duke Energy. The Subsidiary Registrants are allocated their proportionate share of the cost and obligations related to these plans. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of Duke Energy’s plan assets and depending upon the other factors impacting Duke Energy’s costs as listed above, Duke Energy could be required to fund its plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations, and the Subsidiary Registrants’ proportionate share of such cash funding obligations, could have a material impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could unfavorably impact the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations.  

Certain events, such as an aging workforce, mismatch of skill set or complement to future needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges and increased costs. The challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. In this case, costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs and safety costs, may rise. Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, including the transfer of significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate the business. If the Duke Energy Registrants are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial position or results of operations could be negatively affected.  

Duke Energy may be unable to obtain the approvals required to complete its merger with Progress Energy or, in order to do so, the combined company may be required to comply with material restrictions or conditions.  

On January 8, 2011, Duke Energy announced the execution of a Merger Agreement with Progress Energy. Before the merger may be completed, approval must be received from the FERC and various state utility, regulatory, antitrust and other authorities in the U.S., and there is no assurance that Duke Energy will obtain all required approvals. Moreover, these governmental authorities may impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the merger, including restrictions or conditions on the business, operations, or financial performance of the combined company following completion of the merger. These conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the combined company and/or cause either Duke Energy or Progress Energy to abandon the merger.  

Conditions imposed by governmental authorities, including restrictions or conditions on the business, operations, or financial performance of Duke Energy Carolinas following the merger could have a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of Duke Energy Carolinas or could have a material reduction in the expected benefits of the transaction to Duke Energy shareholders.  

If completed, Duke Energy’s merger with Progress Energy may not achieve its intended results.  

Duke Energy and Progress Energy entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the merger would result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies relating to the joint dispatch of generation and combining of fuel purchasing power. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger is subject to a number of uncertainties, including market conditions, risks related to Progress Energy’s and Duke Energy’s respective businesses, and whether the business of Progress Energy is integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs; decreases in the amount of expected revenues generated by the combined company and diversion of management’s time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the combined company’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

If completed, Duke Energy will record goodwill related to the merger with Progress Energy. Impairment of goodwill could have a significant negative impact on Duke Energy’s financial condition and results of operations.  

Generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the U.S. require that one party to the merger be identified as the acquirer. In accordance with these standards, the merger will be accounted for as an acquisition of Progress Energy common stock by Duke Energy and will follow the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The assets and liabilities of Progress Energy will be consolidated with those of Duke Energy. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of Progress Energy’s assets and liabilities will be recorded as goodwill.  

The amount of goodwill, which is expected to be material, will be allocated to the appropriate reporting units of the combined company. Duke Energy is required to assess goodwill for impairment at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Under current accounting guidance, an entity may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a two-step goodwill impairment test. Duke Energy’s annual qualitative assessments of goodwill include reviews of current forecasts compared to prior forecasts, consideration of recent fair value  

24  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

 calculations, if any, review of Duke Energy’s, as well as its peers, stock price performance, credit ratings of Duke Energy’s significant subsidiaries, updates to weighted average cost of capital (WACC) calculations or review of the key inputs to the WACC and consideration of overall economic factors, recent regulatory commission actions and related regulatory climates, and recent financial performance. If the results of qualitative assessments indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, the two-step impairment test is required. Step one of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of reporting units with their carrying values, including goodwill. To the extent the carrying value of any of those reporting units is greater than the fair value of the related reporting units, a second step comparing the implied fair value of goodwill to the carrying amount would be required to determine if the goodwill is impaired. Such a potential impairment could result in a charge that would have a material impact on Duke Energy’s future financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Duke Energy is subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger with Progress Energy is pending that could adversely affect Duke Energy’s financial results.  

Uncertainty about the effect of the merger with Progress Energy on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Duke Energy. Although Duke Energy has taken and intends to continue to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties may impair Duke Energy’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with Duke Energy to seek to change existing business relationships. Employee retention and recruitment may be particularly challenging prior to the completion of the merger, as employees and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company. If, despite Duke Energy’s retention and recruiting efforts, key employees depart or fail to accept employment with Duke Energy because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with the combined company, Duke Energy’s financial results could be affected.  

The pursuit of the merger and the preparation for the integration of Progress Energy into Duke Energy may place a significant burden on management and internal resources. The diversion of management attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could affect Duke Energy’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts Duke Energy, without Progress Energy’s consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the merger occurs or the Merger Agreement terminates. These restrictions may prevent Duke Energy from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to Duke Energy’s business prior to completion of the merger or termination of the Merger Agreement.  

Failure to complete the merger with Progress Energy could negatively impact Duke Energy’s stock price and Duke Energy’s future business and financial results.  

If Duke Energy’s merger with Progress Energy is not completed, Duke Energy’s ongoing business and financial results may be adversely affected and Duke Energy will be subject to a number of risks, including the following:  

   •    Duke Energy may be required, under specified circumstances set forth in the Merger Agreement, to pay Progress Energy a termination fee of $675 million;  

   •    Duke Energy will be required to pay costs relating to the merger, including legal, accounting, financial advisory, filing and printing costs, whether or not the merger is completed; and  

   •    matters relating to Duke Energy’s merger with Progress Energy (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by Duke Energy’s management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy could also be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete its merger with Progress Energy. If the merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect Duke Energy’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

25  

Table of Contents 

PART I  

Item 2. Properties.