PART II  

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

INTRODUCTION  

Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Duke Energy operates in the United States (U.S.) primarily through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio), which includes Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc. (Duke Energy Kentucky), and Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana), as well as in Latin America through International Energy.  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis includes financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.), as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share, discussed below. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.  

When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its three separate subsidiary registrants, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants), which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants. The following combined Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is separately filed by Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. However, none of the registrants makes any representation as to information related solely to Duke Energy or the Subsidiary Registrants of Duke Energy other than itself.  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

Proposed Merger with Progress Energy, Inc. On January 8, 2011, Duke Energy entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (Merger Agreement) among Diamond Acquisition Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and Duke Energy’s wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub) and Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), a North Carolina corporation. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into Progress Energy with Progress Energy continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy.  

Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the closing of the merger, each issued and outstanding share of Progress Energy common stock will automatically be canceled and converted into the right to receive 2.6125 shares of common stock of Duke Energy, subject to appropriate adjustment for a reverse stock split of the Duke Energy common stock as contemplated in the Merger Agreement and except that any shares of Progress Energy common stock that are owned by Progress Energy or Duke Energy, other than in a fiduciary capacity, will be canceled without any consideration therefor. Each outstanding option to acquire, and each outstanding equity award relating to, one share of Progress Energy common stock will be converted into an option to acquire, or an equity award relating to 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock, as applicable, subject to appropriate adjustment for the reverse stock split. Based on Progress Energy shares outstanding at December 31, 2011, Duke Energy would issue 771 million shares of common stock to convert the Progress Energy common shares in the merger under the unadjusted exchange ratio of 2.6125. The exchange ratio will be adjusted proportionately to reflect a 1-for-3 reverse stock split with respect to the issued and outstanding Duke Energy common stock that Duke Energy plans to implement prior to, and conditioned on, the completion of the merger. The resulting adjusted exchange ratio is 0.87083 of a share of Duke Energy common stock for each share of Progress Energy common stock. Based on Progress Energy shares outstanding at December 31, 2011, Duke Energy would issue 257 million shares of common stock, after the effect of the 1-for-3 reverse stock split, to convert the Progress Energy common shares in the merger. The merger will be accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting with Duke Energy treated as the acquirer, for accounting purposes. Based on the market price of Duke Energy common stock on December 31, 2011, the transaction would be valued at $17 billion and would result in incremental recorded goodwill to Duke Energy of $11 billion, according to current estimates. Duke Energy would also assume all of Progress Energy’s outstanding debt, which is estimated to be $15 billion based on the approximate fair value of Progress Energy’s outstanding indebtedness at December 31, 2011. The Merger Agreement has been unanimously approved by both companies’ Boards of Directors.  

The merger is conditioned upon, among other things, approval by the shareholders of both companies, as well as expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and approval by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the Nuclear Regulatory (NRC), the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), and the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC). Duke Energy and Progress Energy also are seeking review of the merger by the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC) and approval of the joint dispatch agreement by the PSCSC. Although there are no merger-specific regulatory approvals required in Indiana, Ohio or Florida, the companies will continue to update the public services commissions in those states on the merger, as applicable and as required. The status of regulatory approvals is as follows:  

   •    On April 4, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy, jointly filed applications with the FERC for the approval of the merger, the Joint Dispatch Agreement and the joint Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT). On September 30, 2011, the FERC conditionally approved the merger, subject to approval of mitigation measures to address its finding that the combined company could have an adverse effect on competition in wholesale power markets in the Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas East balancing authority areas. On October 17, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy filed their plan for mitigating the FERC’s concerns by proposing to offer on a daily basis a certain quantity of power during summer and winter periods to the extent it is available after serving native load and existing firm obligations. On December 14, 2011, the FERC issued an order rejecting Duke Energy and Progress Energy’s proposed mitigation plan, finding that the proposed mitigation plans submitted by the companies did not adequately address the market power issues. In a separate order issued December 14, 2011, the FERC dismissed the applications for approval of the Joint Dispatch Agreement and the joint OATT without prejudice to the right to refile them if Duke Energy and Progress Energy decide to file another mitigation plan to address the FERC’s market power concerns stated in the FERC’s September 30, 2011 order.  

   •    On April 4, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy filed a merger application and joint dispatch agreement with the NCUC. On September 2, 2011, Duke Energy, Progress Energy and the NC Public Staff filed a settlement agreement with the NCUC. Under the settlement agreement, the companies will guarantee North Carolina customers their allocable share of $650 million in savings related to fuel and joint dispatch of generation assets over the first five years after the merger closes, continue community financial support for a minimum of four years, contribute to weatherization efforts of low-income customers and workforce development during the first year after the merger closes and agree not to recover direct merger-related costs. A public hearing occurred September 20-22, 2011 and proposed orders and briefs were filed November 23, 2011. Duke Energy is required by regulatory conditions imposed by the NCUC to file with the NCUC a thirty-day advance notice of certain FERC  

33  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

     filings prior to filing with the FERC. Accordingly, Duke Energy filed advance notice of the revised FERC mitigation plan on February 22, 2012. Duke Energy and Progress Energy may file the mitigation plan with the FERC after approval from the NCUC.  

   •    On April 25, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy, on behalf of their utility companies Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas, filed an application requesting the PSCSC to review the merger and approve the proposed Joint Dispatch Agreement and the prospective future merger of Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas. On September 13, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy withdrew their application seeking approval for the future merger of their Carolinas utility companies, Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas, as the merger of these entities is not likely to occur for several years after the close of the merger. Hearings occurred the week of December 12, 2011 and proposed orders and briefs were filed on December 20, 2011. Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas committed at the hearing that, as a condition for the PSCSC approving the proposed Joint Dispatch Agreement, Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas will give their South Carolina customers “most favored nations” treatment. Thus, Duke Energy Carolinas’ and Progress Energy Carolinas’ South Carolina customers will receive pro rata benefits equivalent to those approved by the NCUC in connection with the NCUC’s review of the merger application. Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas are awaiting a PSCSC order in this case. Duke Energy Carolinas and Progress Energy Carolinas intend to describe and explain the mitigation plan to the PSCSC in an authorized ex parte briefing in the first quarter of 2012. 

   •    On March 17, 2011, Duke Energy filed an initial registration statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for shares to be issued to consummate the merger with Progress Energy. On July 7, 2011, the Form S-4 was declared effective by the SEC, and the joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the Form S-4 was mailed to the shareholders of both companies thereafter. On August 23, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy shareholders approved the proposed merger. In addition, Duke Energy shareholders approved a 1-for-3 reverse stock split.  

   •    On March 28, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy submitted Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust filings to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). The 30 day notice period expired without further action by the DOJ; therefore, the companies had clearance to close the merger on April 27, 2011. This clearance is effective for one year. Because the merger is not expected to close by the end of April 2011, the parties will resubmit antitrust filings prior to April 26, 2012 expiration so as to ensure there is no gap in the clearance period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act.  

   •    On March 30, 2011, Progress Energy made filings with the NRC for approval for indirect transfer of control of licenses for Progress Energy’s nuclear facilities to include Duke Energy as the ultimate parent corporation on these licenses. On December 2, 2011, the NRC approved the indirect transfer of control of Progress Energy’s nuclear stations to include Duke Energy as the parent corporation of the licenses.  

   •    On April 4, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy filed a merger application with the KPSC. On June 24, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy filed a settlement agreement with the Attorney General. A public hearing occurred on July 8, 2011. An order conditionally approving the merger was issued on August 2, 2011. On September 15, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy filed for approval of a stipulation revising one of the merger conditions contained in the KPSC order. On October 28, 2011, the KPSC issued an order approving the stipulation and merger and again required Duke Energy and Progress Energy to accept all conditions contained in the order. Duke Energy and Progress Energy filed their acceptance of those conditions on November 4, 2011.  

   •    On July 12, 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy filed an application with the FCC for approval of radio system license transfers. The FCC approved the transfers on July 27, 2011. On January 5, 2012, the FCC granted an extension of its approval until July 12, 2012.  

No assurances can be given as to the timing of the satisfaction of all closing conditions or that all required approvals will be received.  

Prior to the merger, Duke Energy and Progress Energy will continue to operate as separate companies. Accordingly, except for specific references to the pending merger, the descriptions of strategy and outlook and the risks and challenges Duke Energy faces, and the discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition set forth below relate solely to Duke Energy. Details regarding the pending merger are discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions of Businesses and Sales of Other Assets.”  

2011 Financial Results. The following table summarizes Adjusted Earnings and Net income attributable to Duke Energy for three most recently completed years.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) See ‘Results of Operations below for Duke Energy’s definition of Adjusted Earnings as well as a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to Net income attributable to Duke Energy.  

Adjusted Earnings increased from 2010 to 2011 primarily due to earnings attributable to Duke Energy’s ongoing modernization program and increased results at International Energy net of less favorable weather and higher operating expenses. Adjusted Earnings increased from 2009 to 2010 primarily as a result of the 2009 Duke Energy Carolinas rate cases and favorable weather net of the impact of higher customer switching in Ohio and funding of the Duke Energy Foundation.  

Net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 includes pretax impairment charges of $222 million related to the Edwardsport integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) project and $79 million to write down the carrying value of excess emission allowances held by Commercial Power to fair value. Net income for both of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was impacted by goodwill and other impairment charges of $660 million and $413 million, respectively, primarily related to the non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest.  

See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as well as a detailed discussion of EBIT results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.  

34  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

2011 Areas of Focus and Accomplishments. In 2011, management was focused on obtaining approval of the merger with Progress Energy, continuing modernization of infrastructure, executing on rate case filings, continuing cost control efforts and achieving a constructive outcome to the Standard Service Offer (SSO) filing in Ohio.  

Integration Planning for the Merger with Progress Energy. During 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy conducted certain integration planning activities including the selection of key management personnel and financial systems integration planning work. Duke Energy and Progress Energy also announced a Voluntary Separation Plan (VSP) to approximately 8,200 eligible employees of both companies. Approximately 500 employees accepted the termination benefits during the voluntary window period, which closed on November 30, 2011. Severance payments associated with this voluntary plan are contingent upon the successful close of the proposed merger with Progress Energy. Refer to the discussion under “Proposed Merger with Progress Energy, Inc.” above for the status of various required federal and state regulatory approvals.  

Continued Modernization of Infrastructure. Duke Energy’s strategy for meeting customer demand, while building a sustainable business that allows its customers and its shareholders to prosper in a carbon-constrained environment, includes significant commitments to renewable energy, customer energy efficiency, advanced nuclear power, advanced clean-coal and high-efficiency natural gas electric generating plants, and retirement of older less efficient coal-fired power plants. Due to upcoming environmental regulations, potential carbon legislation, air pollutant regulation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and coal regulation, Duke Energy has been focused on modernizing its generation fleet in preparation for a low carbon future. Duke Energy has invested approximately $6.2 billion through 2011 in four key generation fleet modernization projects with approximately 2,700 megawatts (MW) of capacity within its U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. In November 2011 Duke Energy Carolinas placed its 620 MW Buck combined cycle natural gas-fired generation facility in service. This is the first of Duke Energy’s key modernization projects to be commissioned. Also during 2011, Duke Energy continued the construction of Cliffside Unit 6 and the Dan River combined cycle facility in North Carolina and the Edwardsport IGCC plant in Indiana and these projects are approximately 95%, 77% and 97% complete, respectively, at December 31, 2011. These projects are scheduled to be placed in service during 2012.  

Duke Energy Indiana experienced a number of challenges, including cost pressures and regulatory scrutiny, related to the Edwardsport IGCC project during 2011. As a result of these challenges, Duke Energy Indiana recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of approximately $222 million related to costs expected to be incurred above its proposed cost cap. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” for further discussion of the Edwardsport IGCC project.  

In the second half of 2011, Duke Energy Carolina received orders from the NCUC and the PSCSC approving the continuation of project development costs for the William States Lee III Nuclear Station for an additional $120 million through June 30, 2012. These orders result in cumulative approved development costs of $350 million. Through December 31, 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas has incurred $261 million of development costs on this project.  

In July 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas signed a letter of intent with South Carolina Public Service Authority (Santee Cooper) related to the potential acquisition by Duke Energy Carolinas of a five percent to ten percent ownership interest in the V.C. Summer Nuclear Station being developed by Santee Cooper and South Carolina Electric & Gas Company near Jenkinsville, South Carolina. The letter of intent provides a path for Duke Energy Carolinas to conduct the necessary due diligence to determine if future participation in this project is beneficial for its customers.  

Executing on Rate Case Filings. Duke Energy Carolinas obtained favorable rate case outcomes in North Carolina and South Carolina which will increase revenues by approximately $400 million.  

Cost Control Efforts. Since the beginning of the economic downturn in 2007, Duke Energy was successful in holding operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, flat through 2009. However, the record temperatures and related high load demands experienced during 2010 resulted in an increase in Duke Energy’s operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, in 2010. Duke Energy expected continued costs pressures in 2011 due to additional maintenance expenses related to new assets, additional planned outages at nuclear stations, employee benefit costs and inflation. As a result of these pressures and significant expenses related to storm restoration efforts in 2011, Duke Energy’s operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, increased from 2010. Duke Energy’s operations and maintenance expenses, net of deferrals and cost recovery riders, has increased modestly from the beginning of the economic downturn in 2007.  

Ohio SSO Filing. In November 2011, the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) approved the settlement of Duke Energy Ohio’s new ESP with a term of January 1, 2012 through May 31, 2015. The ESP provides for competitive auctions to establish Duke Energy Ohio’s SSO price and includes a non-bypassable stability charge of $110 million per year to be collected from 2012-2014. The ESP also requires Duke Energy Ohio to transfer its generation assets to a non-regulated affiliate on or before December 31, 2014. Duke Energy Ohio believes the ESP balances the interests of all parties by allowing customers to take advantage of the current low market power prices, encouraging competition and providing the company greater clarity and strategic flexibility regarding its operations. Duke Energy Ohio successfully conducted its initial auction in December 2011.  

Regional Transmission Organization Realignment. Duke Energy Ohio completed its Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) realignment from the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc (Midwest ISO) to PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM), on December 31, 2011. Benefits of the realignment from Midwest ISO to PJM include greater electrical interconnectivity, reduced congestion and production costs, a capacity market structure that promotes long-term contracting, consolidation of Duke Energy Ohio’s coal-fired and gas-fired generation into a single market area and alignment of Duke Energy Ohio’s jointly owned generation units into a single market area that provides for a consistent dispatch signal. In conjunction with the realignment, Duke Energy Ohio recorded a liability related to its Midwest ISO exit obligation and share of MTEP costs, excluding Multi Value Projects (MVP) of approximately $102 million. Approximately $74 million of this amount was recorded as a regulatory asset while the remainder was recorded as an expense. In addition to the above amounts, Duke Energy Ohio may also be responsible for costs associated with the Midwest ISO MVP projects. Duke Energy Ohio is contesting its obligation to pay for such costs. However, depending on the final outcome of this matter, Duke Energy Ohio could incur material costs associated with MVP.  

2012 Objectives. Duke Energy will focus on managing regulatory approvals related to the proposed merger with Progress Energy, completing its remaining major capital projects, obtaining constructive regulatory outcomes and achieving its adjusted diluted earnings target and continuing to grow annual dividends.  

35  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Managing Regulatory Approvals Related to the Proposed Merger with Progress Energy. In December 2011, the FERC rejected Duke Energy and Progress Energy’s proposed mitigation plan related to market power concerns. Duke Energy and Progress Energy continue to evaluate the FERC’s December order in an attempt to develop an alternative proposal. In addition to addressing FERC’s market power concerns, any subsequent filing needs to be structured to balance retaining benefits of the transaction for Duke Energy and Progress Energy’s customers and shareholders. Prior to submitting an alternative proposal to FERC, Duke Energy and Progress Energy are required to make a 30-day notification filing with the NCUC. Accordingly, Duke Energy filed advance notice of the revised FERC mitigation plan on February 22, 2012.  

Completing Remaining Major Capital Projects. Duke Energy anticipates total capital expenditures of $4.3 billion to $4.5 billion in 2012. Approximately $1.4 billion of these expenditures are related to expansion and growth projects, including but not limited to, the Edwardsport IGCC plant, Cliffside Unit 6 and Dan River combined cycle facility. Duke Energy also plans to complete 800 MW of wind projects in its non-regulated businesses during 2012 before the expiration of federal tax incentives.  

Obtaining Constructive Regulatory Outcomes. The majority of future earnings are anticipated to be contributed from U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G), which consists of Duke Energy’s regulated businesses. Duke Energy Carolinas plans to file rate cases in North Carolina and South Carolina during 2012. Duke Energy Ohio plans to file for electric distribution and gas rate cases in 2012. These planned rates cases are needed to recover investments in Duke Energy’s ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs. Planning for and obtaining favorable outcomes from these regulatory proceedings as well as recovery of the Edwardsport IGCC plant are a key factor in achieving Duke Energy’s long-term growth assumptions.  

Achieving Adjusted Diluted Earnings Target and Growing Annual Dividends. Duke Energy’s adjusted diluted earnings per share outlook range for 2012 is $1.40 to $1.45. Attainment of this range will be a key factor in achieving Duke Energy’s targeted 4-6% long-term adjusted earnings growth plan from a base of 2009. Refer to the section “Results of Operations” for the definition of adjusted earnings, a non-GAAP financial measure. Duke Energy expects its 2012 financial results as compared to 2011 to be impacted by the items discussed below.  

Positive earnings drivers for 2012 are expected to include:  

   •    Increased earnings from ongoing modernization program and 2011 rate cases; and  

   •    Increased weather-normalized retail load growth.  

Negative earnings drivers for 2012 are expected to include:  

   •    An assumed return to normal weather in 2012 compared to favorable weather experienced in 2011,  

   •    The impact of the new ESP on Ohio coal-fired generation operations,  

   •    Lower results from Midwest Gas assets as a result of lower PJM capacity prices; and  

   •    The impact of potentially unfavorable exchange rates for foreign operations.  

Economic Factors for Duke Energy’s Business. The historical and future trends of Duke Energy’s operating results have been and will be affected in varying degrees by a number of factors, including those discussed below. Duke Energy’s revenues depend on customer usage, which varies with weather conditions and behavior patterns, general business conditions and the cost of energy services. Various regulatory agencies approve the prices for electric service within their respective jurisdictions and affect Duke Energy’s ability to recover its costs from customers.  

Declines in demand for electricity as a result of economic downturns reduce overall electricity sales and have the potential to lessen Duke Energy’s cash flows, especially if retail customers reduce consumption of electricity. A weakening economy could also impact Duke Energy’s customers’ ability to pay, causing increased delinquencies, slowing collections and leading to higher than normal levels of accounts receivables, bad debts and financing requirements. A portion of USFE&G’s business risk is mitigated by its regulated allowable rates of return and recovery of fuel costs under fuel adjustment clauses.  

Duke Energy’s business model provides diversification between relatively stable regulated businesses like those in USFE&G, and the commodity cyclical and contracted businesses like Commercial Power and International Energy. Duke Energy’s businesses can be negatively affected by sustained downturns or sluggishness in the economy. Market prices of commodities, which are beyond Duke Energy’s control, could have a significant positive or negative impact on the achievement of Duke Energy’s goals for 2012 and beyond.  

If negative market conditions should persist over time and estimated cash flows over the lives of Duke Energy’s individual assets, including goodwill, do not exceed the carrying value of those individual assets, asset impairments may occur in the future under existing accounting rules and diminish results of operations. A change in management’s intent about the use of individual assets (held for use versus held for sale) could also result in impairments or losses. Duke Energy evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of August 31 and performs interim impairment tests if a triggering event occurs that indicates it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. For further information on key assumptions that impact Duke Energy’s goodwill impairment assessments, see “Critical Accounting Policy for Goodwill Impairment Assessments” and Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments.”  

Duke Energy’s goals for 2012 and beyond could also be substantially at risk due to the regulation of its businesses. Duke Energy’s businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation on the federal and state level. Regulations, applicable to the electric power industry, have a significant impact on the nature of the businesses and the manner in which they operate. Duke Energy plans to file various rate cases with several state regulatory agencies during 2012. New legislation and changes to regulations are ongoing, including anticipated carbon legislation, and Duke Energy cannot predict the future course of changes in the regulatory or political environment or the ultimate effect that any such future changes will have on its business.  

Results of USFE&G are also impacted by the completion of its major generation fleet modernization projects. Duke Energy makes substantial investments in power plant upgrades and to maintain the reliability of the energy transmission and distribution system. Regulatory approval is needed to recover the costs of these investments, which are expected to provide a significant cash flow to enable recovery of costs incurred on a timely basis. Duke Energy Indiana is 97% complete with the Edwardsport IGCC power plant, which is expected to be in-service in 2012. Updates to the cost estimate have led Duke Energy Indiana to filing a proposed cap on the projects construction costs (excluding financing costs) which can be recovered through rates at $2.72 billion. As a result, Duke Energy Indiana has recorded pre-tax charges to earnings of $222 million in the third quarter of 2011 and $44 million in the third quarter of 2010 to reflect the impact of cost over-runs. Updates to the cost estimate could occur through the completion of the plant. Duke Energy Indiana is awaiting an order from the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) regarding the cost estimate increase and the allegations of fraud, concealment and gross mismanagement related to the IGCC project. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for further discussion of the significant increase in the estimated cost of the 618 MW Edwardsport IGCC plant.  

36  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy’s earnings are impacted by fluctuations in commodity prices. Exposure to commodity prices generates higher earnings volatility in the unregulated businesses. To mitigate these risks, Duke Energy enters into derivative instruments to effectively hedge some, but not all, known exposures.  

Additionally, Duke Energy’s investments and projects located outside of the U.S. expose Duke Energy to risks related to laws of other countries, taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. Changes in these factors are difficult to predict and may impact Duke Energy’s future results.  

Duke Energy also relies on access to both short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not met by cash flow from operations. An inability to access capital at competitive rates or at all could adversely affect Duke Energy’s ability to implement its strategy. Market disruptions or a downgrade of Duke Energy’s credit rating may increase its cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to access one or more sources of liquidity. For further information related to management’s assessment of Duke Energy’s risk factors, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Duke Energy  

In this section, Duke Energy provides analysis and discussion of earnings and factors affecting earnings on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis.  

Management evaluates financial performance in part based on the non-GAAP financial measure, Adjusted Earnings, which is measured as income from continuing operations after deducting income attributable to noncontrolling interests, adjusted for the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy’s hedging of a portion of economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from operating earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of Adjusted Earnings provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of Duke Energy’s performance across periods. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure for planning and forecasting and for reporting results to the Board of Directors, employees, shareholders, analysts and investors concerning Duke Energy’s financial performance. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for Adjusted Earnings is net income attributable to Duke Energy common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items, the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and discontinued operations.  

OVERVIEW  

The following table reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted Earnings to the GAAP measure Net income attributable to Duke Energy (amounts are net of tax and, except for per-share amounts, are in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

37  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

For the year ended December 31, 2011, Adjusted Earnings was $1,943 million, or $1.46 per share, compared to Adjusted Earnings of $1,882 million or $1.43 per share, for the same period in 2010. The increase as compared to the prior year was primarily due to:  

   •    Increased earning associated with major construction projects at USFE&G;  

   •    Effect of prior year Duke Energy Foundation funding;  

   •    Increased results in Brazil due to higher average contract prices;  

   •    Increased earnings from National Methanol Company (NMC);  

   •    Lower corporate governance costs;  

   •    Increased results in Peru due to additional capacity revenues and an arbitration award; and  

   •    Increased results in Central America due to higher average prices and volumes.  

Partially offset by  

   •    Less favorable weather in 2011 compared to 2010 at USFE&G;  

   •    Increased operation and maintenance costs at USFE&G; and  

   •    Lower volumes as a result of customer switching in Ohio, net of retention by Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Duke Energy Retail) at Commercial Power.  

For the year ended December 31, 2010, Adjusted Earnings was $1,882 million, or $1.43 per share, compared to Adjusted Earnings of $1,577 million or $1.22 per share, for the same period in 2009. The increase as compared to the prior year was primarily due to:  

   •    Favorable weather at USFE&G;  

   •    Increased earnings associated with major construction projects at USF&G;  

   •    Increased earnings due to 2009 North Carolina and South Carolina rate cases at USFE&G; and  

   •    Increased results from the Midwest gas assets due to both volumes and price.  

Partially offset by  

   •    Increased operation and maintenance costs at USFE&G;  

   •    Lower volumes as a result of customer switching in Ohio, net of retention by Duke Energy Retail at Commercial Power; and  

   •    Lower gains on coal and emission allowance sales at Commercial Power.  

The following table contains summarized information from Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consolidated Operating Revenues  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010. Consolidated operating revenues for 2011 increased $257 million compared to 2010. This change was primarily driven by the following:  

   •    A $263 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information;  

   •    A $43 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information; and  

   •    A $22 million increase at USFE&G. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for USFE&G below for further information.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. Consolidated operating revenues for 2010 increased $1,541 million compared to 2009. This change was primarily driven by the following:  

   •    A $1,164 million increase at USFE&G. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for USFE&G below for further information;  

38  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

   •    A $334 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information; and  

   •    A $46 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Revenue discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Consolidated Operating Expenses  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010. Consolidated operating expenses for 2011 decreased $204 million compared to 2010. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    A $435 million decrease at Commercial Power. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information; and  

   •    A $302 million decrease at Other. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Other below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $399 million increase at USFE&G. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for USFE&G below for further information; and  

   •    A $132 million increase at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. Consolidated operating expenses for 2010 increased $1,446 million compared to 2009. This change was driven primarily by the following:  

   •    A $624 million increase at USFE&G. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for USFE&G below for further information;  

   •    A $576 million increase at Commercial Power. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Commercial Power below for further information; and  

   •    A $267 million increase at Other. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for Other below for further information.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $28 million decrease at International Energy. See Operating Expense discussion within “Segment Results” for International Energy below for further information.  

Consolidated Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net  

Consolidated gains on sales of other assets and other, net was a gain of $8 million, $153 million and $36 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The gains in 2010 are primarily due to the $139 million gain from the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet Communications, LLC (DukeNet). The gains for 2009 relate primarily to sales of emission allowances by USFE&G and Commercial Power.  

Consolidated Operating Income  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010. For 2011, consolidated operating income increased $316 million compared to 2010. Drivers to operating income are discussed above.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. For 2010, consolidated operating income increased $212 million compared to 2009. Drivers to operating income are discussed above.  

Consolidated Other Income and Expenses, net  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010. For 2011, consolidated other income and expenses decreased $42 million compared to 2010. This decrease was primarily due to the $109 million gain on the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm Corporation (Q-Comm) in 2010 and unfavorable returns on investments that support benefit obligations; partially offset by increased equity earnings of $44 million primarily from International Energy’s investment in NMC, a higher equity component of allowance for funds used during construction (AFUDC) of $26 million due to additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects, and a $20 million Peru arbitration award.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. For 2010, consolidated other income and expenses increased $256 million compared to 2009. This increase was primarily due to the $109 million gain on the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm in 2010, a higher equity component of AFUDC of $81 million due to additional capital spending for ongoing construction projects, increased equity earnings of $46 million primarily from International Energy’s investment in NMC and the absence of 2009 losses from its investment in Attiki Gas Supply S.A. (Attiki), and a $26 million charge in 2009 associated with certain performance guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of the Crescent JV (Crescent).  

Consolidated Interest Expense  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010. Consolidated interest expense increased $19 million in 2011 as compared to 2010. This increase is primarily attributable to higher debt balances in 2011 and higher interest expense related to income taxes; partially offset by deferred interest expense related to environmental plant costs.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. Consolidated interest expense increased $89 million in 2010 as compared to 2009. This increase is primarily attributable to higher debt balances, partially offset by a higher debt component of AFUDC due to increased spending on capital projects and lower interest expense related to income taxes.  

Consolidated Income Tax Expense from Continuing Operations  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010. For 2011, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations decreased $138 million compared to 2010, primarily due to a decrease in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2011 was 30.5% compared to 40.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010. The change in the effective tax rate is primarily due to a $500 million impairment of non-deductible goodwill in 2010  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009. For 2010, consolidated income tax expense from continuing operations increased $132 million compared to 2009, primarily due to the increase in pre-tax income. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 40% compared to 41% for the year ended December 31, 2009. The effective tax rates for both 2010 and 2009 reflect the effect of goodwill impairments, which are non-deductible for tax purposes.  

Segment Results  

Management evaluates segment performance based on earnings before interest and taxes from continuing operations (excluding certain allocated corporate governance costs), after deducting amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests related to those profits (EBIT).  

39  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 On a segment basis, EBIT excludes discontinued operations, represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating) before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests related to those profits. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are managed centrally by Duke Energy, so interest and dividend income on those balances, as well as gains and losses on remeasurement of foreign currency denominated balances, are excluded from the segments’ EBIT. Management considers segment EBIT to be a good indicator of each segment’s operating performance from its continuing operations, as it represents the results of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.  

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments,” for a discussion of Duke Energy’s segment structure. Duke Energy’s operating earnings may not be comparable to a similarly titled measure of another company because other entities may not calculate operating earnings in the same manner. Beginning in 2012, the chief operating decision maker began evaluating segment financial performance and allocation of resources on a net income basis. Therefore, previously unallocated corporate costs will be reflected in each segment.  

Segment EBIT is summarized in the following table, and detailed discussions follow.  

EBIT by Business Segment  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Other within Interest income and other includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses and additional noncontrolling interest amounts not allocated to reportable segment and Other EBIT.  

Noncontrolling interest amounts presented below includes only expenses and benefits related to EBIT of Duke Energy’s joint ventures. It does not include the noncontrolling interest component related to interest and taxes of the joint ventures.  

Segment EBIT, as discussed below, includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas  

U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas includes the regulated operations of Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky and certain regulated operations of Duke Energy Ohio.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Gigawatt-hours (GWh).  

40  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 (b) Duke Energy Ohio (Ohio transmission and distribution only), Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively referred to as Duke Energy Midwest within this USFE&G segment discussion.  

 (c) Megawatt (MW).  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas. Except as otherwise noted, the below percentages represent billed sales only for the periods presented and are not weather normalized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Carolinas’ sales, including all billed and unbilled retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Midwest. Except as otherwise noted, the below percentages represent billed sales only for the periods presented and are not weather normalized.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Major components of Duke Energy Midwest’s retail sales.  

 (b) Consists of all components of Duke Energy Midwest’s sales, including all billed and unbilled retail sales, and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers.  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $230 million increase in rate riders and retail rates primarily due to the 2011 implementation of the North Carolina construction work in progress (CWIP) rider, the save-a-watt (SAW) and demand side management programs, and the rider for the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction;  

   •    A $22 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by higher fuel rates for electric retail customers in all jurisdictions, and higher purchased power costs in Indiana, partially offset by decreased demand from electric retail customers in 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 mainly due to less favorable weather conditions, lower demand and fuel rates in Ohio and Kentucky from natural gas retail customers. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers; and  

   •    An $18 million net increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to additional volumes and charges for capacity for customers served under long-term contracts.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $244 million decrease in GWh and thousand cubic feet (Mcf) sales to retail customers due to less favorable weather conditions in 2011 compared to the same period in 2010. For the Carolinas and Midwest, weather statistics for both heating degree days and cooling degree days in 2011 were unfavorable compared to the same period in 2010. The year 2010 had the most cooling degree days on record and December 2010 tied with December 1963 for the coldest December on record in the Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area (dating back to 1961).  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $178 million increase due to an additional impairment charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information; and  

   •    A $175 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to higher non-outage costs at nuclear and fossil generation stations, higher storm costs, increased scheduled outage costs at nuclear generation stations, and increased costs related to the implementation of the SAW program.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase resulted primarily from a higher equity component of AFUDC from additional capital spending for increased construction expenditures related to new generation partially offset by lower deferred returns.  

EBIT. As discussed above, the decrease resulted primarily from an additional impairment charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant, higher operating and maintenance expenses and less favorable weather. These negative impacts were partially offset by overall net higher retail rates and rate riders and higher wholesale power revenues.  

Matters Impacting Future USFE&G Results  

Results of USFE&G are impacted by the completion of its major generation fleet modernization projects. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for a discussion of the significant increase in the estimated cost of the 618 MW IGCC plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station. Additional updates to the cost estimate could occur through the completion of the plant in 2012. Phase I and Phase II hearings concluded on January 24, 2012. Final orders from the IURC on Phase I and Phase II of the subdocket and the pending IGCC Rider proceedings are expected no sooner than the end of the third quarter 2012. Duke  

41  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 Energy Indiana is unable to predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings. In the event the IURC disallows a portion of the plant costs, including financing costs, or if cost estimates for the plant increase, additional charges to expense, which could be material, could occur.  

In January 2012, the NCUC and PSCSC approved Duke Energy Carolinas’ proposed settlements in requests to increase electric rates for its North Carolina and South Carolina customers. The settlement agreements include combined base rate increases of approximately $400 million that will be reflected in 2012 earnings.  

Duke Energy Carolinas plans to file rate cases in North Carolina and South Carolina during 2012. Duke Energy Ohio plans to file electric transmission and distribution and gas rate cases in 2012. Duke Energy Indiana is evaluating the need for a rate case in 2012 or 2013. These planned rates cases are needed to recover investments in Duke Energy’s ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $374 million increase in net retail pricing and rate riders primarily due to new retail base rates implemented in North Carolina and South Carolina in the first quarter of 2010 resulting from the 2009 rate cases, an Ohio electric distribution rate increase in July 2009, and a Kentucky gas rate increase in January 2010;  

   •    A $308 million increase in sales to retail customers due to favorable weather conditions in 2010 compared to 2009. For the Carolinas and Midwest, weather statistics for both heating degree days and cooling degree days in 2010 were favorable compared to 2009. The year 2010 had the most cooling degree days on record in the Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area (dating back to 1961);  

   •    A $282 million increase in fuel revenues (including emission allowances) driven primarily by increased demand from electric retail customers resulting from favorable weather conditions, and higher fuel rates for electric retail customers in North Carolina, partially offset by lower fuel rates for electric retail customers in the Midwest and South Carolina, and lower natural gas fuel rates in Ohio and Kentucky. Fuel revenues represent sales to retail and wholesale customers;  

   •    A $54 million net increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to increases in charges for capacity, increased sales volumes due to weather conditions in 2010 and the addition of new customers served under long-term contracts; and  

   •    A $40 million increase in weather adjusted sales volumes to electric retail customers reflecting increased demand, primarily in the industrial sector, and slight growth in the number of residential and general service electric customers in the USFE&G service territory. The number of electric residential customers in 2010 has increased by approximately 10,000 in the Carolinas and by approximately 7,000 in the Midwest compared to 2009.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $315 million increase in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to higher volume of coal and gas used in electric generation resulting from favorable weather conditions, and higher coal prices, partially offset by lower natural gas prices to full-service retail customers;  

   •    A $162 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily due to costs related to the implementation of the save-a-watt program, higher customer service operations costs, higher benefit costs, higher nuclear, power and gas delivery maintenance costs, higher outage costs at fossil generation stations, and the disallowance in 2010 of a portion of previously deferred costs in Ohio related to the 2008 Hurricane Ike wind storm, partially offset by overall lower storm costs, including the establishment of a regulatory asset to defer previously recognized costs related to an ice storm in Indiana in early 2009;  

   •    A $96 million increase in depreciation and amortization due primarily to increases in depreciation as a result of additional capital spending and amortization of regulatory assets; and  

   •    A $44 million disallowance charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.  

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease is attributable primarily to lower net gains on sales of emission allowances in 2010 compared to 2009.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase resulted primarily from a higher equity component of AFUDC from additional capital spending for increased construction expenditures related to new generation and higher deferred returns.  

EBIT. As discussed above, the increase resulted primarily from overall net higher retail pricing and rate riders, favorable weather, higher equity component of AFUDC, higher wholesale power revenues, and higher weather adjusted sales volumes. These positive impacts were partially offset by higher operating and maintenance expenses, increased depreciation and amortization, and the disallowance charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction.  

Commercial Power  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $240 million increase in wholesale electric revenues due to higher generation volumes, net of lower pricing and lower margin earned from participation in wholesale auctions in 2011; and  

   •    A $53 million increase in renewable generation revenues due to additional renewable generation facilities placed in service after 2010 and a full year of operations for renewable generation facilities placed in service throughout 2010.  

Partially offsetting these increases were:  

   •    A $178 million decrease in retail electric revenues resulting from lower sales volumes driven by increased customer switching levels and unfavorable weather net of higher retail pricing under the ESP in 2011; and  

   •    A $66 million decrease in DEGS revenues, excluding renewables, due primarily to a contract termination and plant maintenance.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $584 million decrease in impairment charges primarily related to a $660 million charge related to goodwill and non-regulated coal-fired generation asset impairments in the Midwest in 2010, as compared to a $79 million impairment in 2011 to write down the carrying value of excess emission allowances held to fair value as a result of the EPA’s issuance of the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and a $9 million impairment of the Vermillion generation station in 2011. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” for additional information; and  

   •    A $65 million decrease in retail fuel and purchased power expenses due to lower generation volumes net of higher purchased power volumes in 2011 as compared to 2010.  

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

   •    A $156 million increase in wholesale fuel expenses due to higher generation volumes, partially offset by favorable hedge realizations in 2011 as compared to 2010;  

   •    A $68 million increase in operating expenses resulting primarily from the recognition of Midwest ISO exit fees, higher maintenance expenses and higher transmission costs in 2011 compared to 2010; and  

   •    A $30 million increase in mark-to-market fuel expense on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $3 million in 2011 compared to gains of $27 million in 2010.  

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The increase in 2011 as compared to 2010 is attributable to 2011 gains on sales of certain assets resulting from a contract termination.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease in 2011 as compared to 2010 is primarily due to distributions from South Houston Green Power received in 2010 which did not recur in 2011.  

EBIT. The increase is primarily attributable to lower goodwill, generation and other asset impairment charges, higher wholesale margins due to increased generation volumes, and an increase in renewables generation revenues. These factors were partially offset by lower retail margins driven by customer switching and unfavorable weather, higher operating expenses resulting from the recognition of Midwest ISO exit fees and increased maintenance expenses, and net mark-to-market losses on non-qualifying commodity hedge contracts in 2011 compared to gains in 2010.  

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Power Results  

Commercial Power’s coal-fired generation assets were dedicated under Duke Energy Ohio’s ESP through December 31, 2011. The PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio’s new ESP in November 2011. The new ESP effectively separates the generation of electricity from Duke Energy Ohio’s retail load obligation as of January 1, 2012. As a result, Commercial Power’s coal-fired generation assets no longer serve retail load customers or receive negotiated pricing under the ESP. The coal-fired generation assets began dispatching all of their electricity into unregulated markets in January 2012 and going forward will receive wholesale energy margins and capacity revenues from PJM at rates currently below those previously collected under the prior ESP. The impact of these lower energy margins and capacity revenues are expected to be partially offset by a non-bypassable stability charge collected from Duke Energy Ohio’s retail customers through 2014. As a result, Commercial Power’s operating revenues and EBIT will be negatively impacted.  

Commercial Power’s gas-fired non-regulated generation assets earn capacity revenues from PJM. PJM capacity prices are determined through an auction process for planning years from June through May of the following year and are conducted approximately three years in advance of the capacity delivery period. Capacity prices, for periods beginning June 2011 and continuing through May 2014 will be significantly lower than current and historical capacity prices. As a result, Commercial Power’s operating revenues and EBIT will be negatively impacted through 2014.  

Commercial Power is focused on growing its non-regulated renewable energy portfolio. Results for Commercial Power are dependent upon completion of renewable energy construction projects and tax credits from renewable energy production and project investments. Failure of current construction projects to reach commercial operation before the expiration of certain tax credits at the end of 2011 could have a significant impact on Commercial Power’s results of operations.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $294 million increase in wholesale electric revenues due to higher generation volumes and pricing net of lower margin earned from participation in wholesale auctions;  

   •    A $54 million increase in PJM capacity revenues due to additional megawatts participating in the auction and higher cleared auction pricing in 2010 compared to 2009;  

43  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

   •    A $51 million increase in renewable generation revenues due to additional wind generation facilities placed in service in 2010 and a full year of operations for wind generation facilities placed in service throughout 2009; and  

   •    An $8 million increase in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $6 million in 2010 compared to losses of $2 million in 2009.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $67 million decrease in retail electric revenues resulting from lower sales volumes driven by increased customer switching levels net of weather and higher retail pricing under the ESP in 2010.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily driven by:  

   •    A $259 million increase in impairment charges consisting of $672 million in 2010 compared to $413 million in 2009 related primarily to goodwill and generation assets associated with non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” for additional information;  

   •    A $277 million increase in wholesale fuel expenses due to higher generation volumes and less favorable hedge realizations in 2010 as compared to 2009;  

   •    A $32 million increase in depreciation and administrative expenses associated with wind projects placed in service and the continued development of the renewable business in 2010; and  

   •    A $70 million increase in operating expenses resulting from the amortization of certain deferred plant maintenance expenses and higher transmission costs in 2010 compared to 2009 net of lower administrative expenses;  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    An $85 million decrease in mark-to-market fuel expense on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $27 million in 2010 compared to losses of $58 million in 2009; and  

   •    A $14 million decrease in retail fuel and purchased power expenses due to lower generation volumes net of higher purchased power volumes in 2010 as compared to 2009.  

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The decrease in 2010 as compared to 2009 is attributable to lower gains on sales of emission allowances in 2010.  

EBIT. The decrease is primarily attributable to higher impairment charges in 2010 associated with goodwill and generation assets of the non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest, higher operating expenses resulting from the amortization of certain deferred plant maintenance expenses and higher transmission costs, and lower retail revenues driven by customer switching. These factors were partially offset by higher retail revenue pricing as a result of the ESP, higher wholesale margins due to increased generation volumes and PJM capacity revenues and mark-to-market gains on non-qualifying fuel and power hedge contracts in 2010 compared to losses in 2009.  

International Energy  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010   

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $111 million increase in Central America as a result of favorable hydrology and higher average prices;  

   •    A $95 million increase in Brazil due to favorable exchange rates, and higher average contract prices and volumes; and  

   •    An $80 million increase in Peru due to higher average prices and volumes, and hydrocarbon prices.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $25 million decrease in Ecuador as a result of lower dispatch due to new hydro competitor commencing operations in the fourth quarter of 2010.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $77 million increase in Central America due to higher fuel costs and consumption as a result of increased dispatch;  

   •    A $56 million increase in Peru as a result of higher fuel costs and consumption as a result of increased dispatch, purchased power and hydrocarbon royalty costs; and  

   •    A $25 million increase in Brazil as a result of unfavorable exchange rates, higher purchased power and a provision for a revenue tax audit.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $27 million decrease in Ecuador due to lower fuel consumption as a result of lower dispatch, and lower maintenance costs.  

44  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was primarily driven by a $44 million increase in equity earnings from NMC due to higher average prices partially offset by higher butane costs, and a $20 million arbitration award in Peru.  

EBIT. As discussed above, the increase was primarily due to favorable contract prices and exchange rates in Brazil, arbitration award and higher margins in Peru, favorable hydrology in Central America, and higher equity earnings at NMC.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $105 million increase in Brazil due to favorable exchange rates, higher average contract prices, and favorable hydrology.  

Partially offsetting this increase was:  

   •    A $54 million decrease in Central America due to lower dispatch as a result of unfavorable hydrology, partially offset by higher average prices.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $27 million decrease in Central America due to lower fuel consumption as a result of lower dispatch; and  

   •    A $13 million decrease in general and administrative due to lower legal, development, and labor costs.  

Partially offsetting these decreases was:  

   •    A $9 million increase in Peru due to higher hydrocarbon royalty costs.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was driven by a $24 million increase due to the absence of 2009 losses from its investment in Attiki and a $23 million increase in equity earnings from NMC due to higher average prices and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) volumes, partially offset by higher butane costs.  

EBIT. The increase in EBIT was primarily due to favorable results in Brazil, the absence of a provision recorded in 2009 related to transmission fees in Brazil, 2009 equity losses associated with Attiki, higher equity earnings from NMC, and lower general and administrative costs, partially offset by lower results in Central America.  

Other  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Year Ended December 31, 2011 as Compared to December 31, 2010  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was driven primarily by the deconsolidation of DukeNet Communications, LLC (DukeNet) in December 2010 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in DukeNet as an equity method investment.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was driven primarily by $172 million of 2010 employee severance costs related to the voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina, prior year donations of $56 million to the Duke Energy Foundation, which is a nonprofit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected nonprofits and government subdivisions, a decrease as a result of the DukeNet deconsolidation in December 2010 and the subsequent accounting for Duke Energy’s investment in DukeNet as an equity method investment, lower corporate costs, and a prior year litigation reserve; partially offset by higher costs related to the proposed merger with Progress Energy.  

Gains/ (Losses) on sales of other assets and other, net. The decrease was primarily due to the $139 million gain from the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet in the prior year.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease was due primarily to the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm in the prior year of $109 million; partially offset by prior year impairments and 2011 gains on sales of investments.  

EBIT. As discussed above, the decrease was due primarily to gains recognized in 2010 on the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet, the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm in the prior year and higher costs related to the proposed merger; partially offset by prior year employee severance costs, prior year donations to the Duke Energy Foundation, lower corporate costs and a prior year litigation reserve.  

Matters Impacting Future Other Results  

Duke Energy previously held an effective 50% interest in Crescent, which was a real estate joint venture formed by Duke Energy in 2006 that filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in June 2009. On June 9, 2010, Crescent restructured and emerged from bankruptcy and Duke Energy forfeited its entire 50% ownership interest to Crescent debt holders. This forfeiture caused Duke Energy to recognize a tax loss, for tax purposes, on its interest in the second quarter of 2010. Although Crescent has reorganized and emerged from bankruptcy with creditors owning all Crescent interest, there remains uncertainty as to the tax treatment associated with the restructuring. Based on this  

45  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 uncertainty, it is possible that Duke Energy could incur a future tax liability related to the tax losses associated with its partnership interest in Crescent and the resolution of issues associated with Crescent’s emergence from bankruptcy.  

Year Ended December 31, 2010 as Compared to December 31, 2009  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by $172 million of employee severance costs related to the 2010 voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina, donations of $56 million to the Duke Energy Foundation, which is a nonprofit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected nonprofits and government subdivisions and a litigation reserve.  

Gains/ (Losses) on sales of other assets and other, net. The increase was primarily due to the $139 million gain from the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet in the fourth quarter of 2010.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase was due primarily to the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm, and a 2009 charge related to certain guarantees Duke Energy had issued on behalf of Crescent.  

EBIT. As discussed above, the decrease was due primarily to employee severance costs, donations to the Duke Energy Foundation, and a litigation reserve; partially offset by gains recognized on the sale of a 50% ownership interest in DukeNet and the sale of Duke Energy’s ownership interest in Q-Comm.  

46  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy Carolinas  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

BASIS OF PRESENTATION  

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Carolinas is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Results of Operations and Variances  

Summary of Results (in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Income  

The $4 million decrease in Duke Energy Carolinas’ net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $241 million net increase in retail rates and rate riders primarily due to the implementation of the North Carolina CWIP rider effective January 2011, riders for the SAW program, and year-over-year impact related to a phase-in of the new retail rates resulting from the South Carolina rate case in the first quarter of 2010; and  

   •    A $23 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to increased capacity charges and additional volumes for customers served under long-term contracts; partially offset by volume decreases and lower pricing for near-term sales.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $192 million decrease in GWh sales to retail customers due to less favorable weather. Weather statistics for both heating degree days and cooling degree days in 2011 were unfavorable compared to 2010. Heating degree days were 4% below normal for 2011 as compared to 16% above normal in 2010 and cooling degree days for 2011 were 19% above normal compared to 33% above normal in 2010.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by:  

   •    A $101 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily related to higher non-outage and outage costs at nuclear generation plants, merger related costs, costs related to the implementation of the SAW program and higher storm costs; partially offset by a prior year charge for a litigation settlement; and  

   •    A $27 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to increased production plant base and software projects amortization; partially offset by the 2011 deferral of the wholesale portion of GridSouth costs.  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $103 million decrease in employee severance costs associated with the 2010 voluntary severance plan.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease is primarily due to higher interest income recorded in 2010 following the resolution of certain income tax matters related to prior years, lower deferred returns and lower equity component of AFUDC.  

Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense for 2011 increased compared to 2010 primarily due to increases in pre-tax income and in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for 2011 and 2010 was 36.1% and 35.3%, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to a decrease in the manufacturing deduction in 2011 and a state tax benefit recorded in 2010, partially offset by the write-off of a deferred tax asset in 2010 due to a change in the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D subsidy due to the passing of health care reform legislation.  

Matters Impacting Future Duke Energy Carolinas Results  

In January 2012, the NCUC and PSCSC approved Duke Energy Carolinas’ proposed settlements in requests to increase electric rates for its North Carolina and South Carolina customers. The settlement agreements include combined base rate increases of approximately $400 million that will be reflected in 2012 earnings.  

Duke Energy Carolinas plans to file rate cases in North Carolina and South Carolina during 2012. These planned rates cases are needed to recover investments in Duke Energy Carolinas’ ongoing infrastructure modernization projects and operating costs. Duke Energy Carolinas’ earnings could be adversely impacted if these rate cases are denied or delayed by either of the state regulatory commissions.  

47  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy Ohio  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

BASIS OF PRESENTATION  

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Ohio is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Results of Operations and Variances  

Summary of Results (in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Income  

The $635 million increase in Duke Energy Ohio’s net income was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The decrease was due primarily to:  

   •    A $204 million decrease in retail electric revenues resulting from lower sales volumes driven by increased customer switching levels net of higher retail pricing under the ESP in 2011;  

   •    A $75 million decrease in retail electric revenues resulting from the expiration of the Ohio electric Regulatory Transition Charge for non-residential customers;  

   •    A $63 million decrease in regulated fuel revenues driven primarily by reduced sales volumes and lower natural gas costs;  

   •    A $39 million decrease related to less favorable weather conditions in 2011 compared to 2010; and  

   •    A $23 million decrease in net mark-to-market revenues on non-qualifying power and capacity hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market gains of $7 million in 2011 compared to gains of $30 million in 2010.  

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

   •    A $246 million increase in wholesale electric revenues due to higher generation volumes net of lower pricing and lower margin earned from participation in wholesale auctions in 2011.  

Operating Expenses. The decrease was due primarily to:  

   •    A $749 million decrease in impairment charges primarily related to a $677 million impairment of goodwill and a $160 million impairment of certain generation assets in 2010 compared to a $79 million impairment in 2011 to write down the carrying value of excess emission allowances. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments,” for additional information;  

   •    A $107 million decrease in retail fuel and purchased power expenses due to lower generation volumes driven by increased customer switching levels in 2011 compared to 2010;  

   •    A $64 million decrease in depreciation and amortization costs primarily due to decreased regulatory transition charge amortization;  

   •    A $63 million decrease in regulated fuel expense primarily due to reduced sales volumes and lower natural gas costs;  

   •    A $24 million decrease in employee severance costs related to the 2010 voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina.  

Partially offsetting these decreases were:  

   •    A $159 million increase in wholesale fuel expenses due to higher generation volumes;  

   •    A $72 million increase in operating and maintenance expenses primarily from the recognition of Midwest ISO exit fees and higher maintenance expenses; and  

   •    A $29 million increase in mark-to-market fuel expense on non-qualifying fuel hedge contracts, consisting of mark-to-market losses of $3 million in 2011 compared to gains of $26 million in 2010.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The decrease in 2011 compared to 2010 is primarily attributable to reduced interest income accrued for uncertain income tax positions.  

Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense for 2011 increased compared to 2010 primarily due to increases in pre-tax income and in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate in 2011 was 33.1% compared to an effective tax rate for the same period in 2010 of (43.0%). The change in the effective tax rate is primarily due to a $677 million non-deductible impairment of goodwill in 2010, as discussed above.  

48  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Matters Impacting Future Duke Energy Ohio Results  

Duke Energy Ohio operated under an ESP that expired on December 31, 2011. The PUCO approved Duke Energy Ohio’s new ESP in November 2011. The new ESP effectively separates the generation of electricity from Duke Energy Ohio’s retail load obligation as of January 1, 2012. Duke Energy Ohio’s retail load obligation is satisfied through competitive auctions, the costs of which are recovered from customers. Duke Energy Ohio now earns retail margin on the transmission and distribution of electricity only and not on the cost of the underlying energy. Duke Energy Ohio’s coal-fired generation assets no longer serve retail load customers or receive negotiated pricing under the ESP. The coal-fired generation assets began dispatching all of their electricity into unregulated markets in January 2012 and going forward will receive wholesale energy margins and capacity revenues from PJM at rates currently below those previously collected under the prior ESP. These lower energy margins and capacity revenues are expected to be partially offset by a non-bypassable stability charge collected from Duke Energy Ohio’s retail customers through 2014. As a result, Duke Energy’s operating revenues and net income will be negatively impacted.  

Duke Energy Ohio’s gas-fired non-regulated generation assets earn capacity revenues from PJM. PJM capacity prices are determined through an auction process for planning years from June through May of the following year and are conducted approximately three years in advance of the capacity delivery period. Capacity prices for periods beginning June 2011 and continuing through May 2014, will be significantly lower than current and historical capacity prices. As a result, Duke Energy Ohio’s operating revenues and net income will be negatively impacted through 2014.  

49  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Duke Energy Indiana  

INTRODUCTION  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

BASIS OF PRESENTATION  

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Indiana is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Results of Operations and Variances  

Summary of Results (in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Income  

The $117 million decrease in Duke Energy Indiana’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to December 31, 2010 was primarily due to the following factors:  

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily due to:  

   •    An $80 million increase in fuel revenues (including the rider for emission allowances) primarily due to an increase in fuel rates as a result of higher fuel and purchased power costs;  

   •    A $32 million net increase in rate riders primarily related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction and higher recoveries of demand side management (DSM) costs, partially offset by lower recoveries under the clean coal technology (CCT) rider; and  

   •    A $13 million increase in rate pricing due to the positive impact on overall average prices of lower sales volumes;  

Partially offsetting these increases was:  

   •    A $27 million decrease in retail revenues related to less favorable weather conditions in 2011 compared to 2010.  

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily due to:  

   •    A $178 million increase due to an additional impairment charge related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information;  

   •    A $74 million increase in fuel costs primarily due to an increase in fuel rates as a result of higher fuel and purchased power costs;  

   •    A $36 million increase in operation and maintenance costs primarily due to higher storm related costs, higher generation outage costs, and increased legal and corporate allocations, partially offset by decreased costs associated with the 2010 voluntary severance plan and the consolidation of certain corporate office functions from the Midwest to Charlotte, North Carolina;  

   •    A $16 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to higher amortization of DSM regulatory assets and increase in production plant base, partially offset by lower amortization of deferred clean coal costs; and  

   •    A $12 million increase in general taxes primarily due to certain property tax true-ups, higher property tax rates in 2011, and increases in gross receipts and payroll taxes.  

Other Income and Expenses, net. The increase in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily attributable to increased AFUDC in 2011 for additional capital spending related to the Edwardsport IGCC plant that is currently under construction.  

Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense for 2011 decreased compared to 2010 primarily due to a decrease in pre-tax income and the effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for 2011 and 2010 was 30.6% and 35.5% respectively. This decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to an increase in AFUDC equity.  

Matters Impacting Future Duke Energy Indiana Results See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for a discussion of the significant increase in the estimated cost of the 618 MW IGCC plant at Duke Energy Indiana’s Edwardsport Generating Station. Additional updates to the cost estimate could occur through the completion of the plant in 2012. Phase I and Phase II hearings concluded on January 24, 2012. Final orders from the IURC on Phase I and Phase II of the subdocket and the pending IGCC Rider proceedings are expected no sooner than the end of the third quarter 2012. Duke Energy Indiana is unable to predict the ultimate outcome  

50  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 of these proceedings. In the event the IURC disallows a portion of the plant costs, including financing costs, or if cost estimates for the plant increase, additional charges to expense, which could be material, could occur.  

51  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES  

The application of accounting policies and estimates is an important process that continues to develop as Duke Energy’s operations change and accounting guidance evolves. Duke Energy has identified a number of critical accounting policies and estimates that require the use of significant estimates and judgments.  

Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on other various assumptions that it believes are reasonable at the time of application. The estimates and judgments may change as time passes and more information about Duke Energy’s environment becomes available. If estimates and judgments are different than the actual amounts recorded, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to take into consideration the new information. Duke Energy discusses its critical accounting policies and estimates and other significant accounting policies with senior members of management and the audit committee, as appropriate. Duke Energy’s critical accounting policies and estimates are discussed below.  

Regulatory Accounting  

Duke Energy’s regulated operations (the substantial majority of U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas’s operations) meet the criteria for application of regulatory accounting treatment. As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that result from the regulated ratemaking process that would not be recorded under GAAP in the U.S. for non-regulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers for previous collections for costs that either are not likely to or have yet to be incurred. Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in Duke Energy’s jurisdictions, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. Based on this continual assessment, management believes the existing regulatory assets are probable of recovery. This assessment reflects the current political and regulatory climate at the state and federal levels, and is subject to change in the future. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the asset write-offs would be required to be recognized in operating income. Additionally, the regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of nuclear decommissioning costs and amortization of regulatory assets or may disallow recovery of all or a portion of certain assets. Total regulatory assets were $4,046 million as of December 31, 2011, and $3,390 million as of December 31, 2010. Total regulatory liabilities were $3,006 million as of December 31, 2011 and $3,155 million as of December 31, 2010. For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”  

In order to apply regulatory accounting treatment and record regulatory assets and liabilities, certain criteria must be met. In determining whether the criteria are met for its operations, management makes significant judgments, including determining whether revenue rates for services provided to customers are subject to approval by an independent, third-party regulator, whether the regulated rates are designed to recover specific costs of providing the regulated service, and a determination of whether, in view of the demand for the regulated services and the level of competition, it is reasonable to assume that rates set at levels that will recover the operations’ costs can be charged to and collected from customers. This final criterion requires consideration of anticipated changes in levels of demand or competition, direct and indirect, during the recovery period for any capitalized costs.  

The regulatory accounting rules require recognition of a loss if it becomes probable that part of the cost of a plant under construction or a recently completed plant will be disallowed for ratemaking purposes and a reasonable estimate of the amount of the disallowance can be made. Such assessments can require significant judgment by management regarding matters such as the ultimate cost of a plant under construction, regulatory recovery implications, etc. As discussed in Note 4, “Regulatory Matters,” during 2011 and 2010 Duke Energy Indiana recorded disallowance charges of $222 million and $44 million, respectively, related to the IGCC plant currently under construction in Edwardsport, Indiana. Management will continue to assess matters as the construction of the plant and the related regulatory proceedings continue, and further charges could be required in 2012 or beyond.  

As discussed further in Note 1, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, and Note 4, “Regulatory Matters,” Duke Energy Ohio discontinued the application of regulatory accounting treatment to portions of its generation operations in November 2011 in conjunction with the approval of its new Electric Security Plan by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio. The effect of this change was immaterial to the financial statements.  

Goodwill Impairment Assessments  

Duke Energy’s goodwill balances are included in the following table.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The majority of Duke Energy’s goodwill relates to the acquisition of Cinergy in April 2006, whose assets are primarily included in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. Commercial Power also has $69 million of goodwill that resulted from the September 2008 acquisition of Catamount Energy Corporation, a leading wind power company located in Rutland, Vermont. As of the acquisition date, Duke Energy allocates goodwill to a reporting unit, which Duke Energy defines as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment.  

Duke Energy recorded impairments of $500 million and $371 million related to Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit in 2010 and 2009. Subsequent to the 2010 impairment charges, there is no recorded amount of goodwill at Commercial Power’s non-regulated Midwest generation reporting unit. These impairment charges are recorded in Goodwill and Other Impairment Charges on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments” for further information regarding the factors impacting the valuation of Commercial Power’s non-regulated generation reporting unit. Duke Energy determined that no other goodwill impairments existed in 2011, 2010 and 2009.  

As discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments”, Duke Energy is required to test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually and more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Duke Energy evaluates the carrying amount of its recorded goodwill for impairment on an annual basis as of August 31 and performs interim impairment tests if a triggering event occurs that indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The analysis of the potential impairment of goodwill has historically required a two step process. However, effective with the FASB’s September 2011 issuance of new goodwill  

52  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 accounting guidance, an entity may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two step goodwill impairment test. Duke Energy’s annual qualitative assessments under the new accounting guidance include reviews of current forecasts compared to prior forecasts, consideration of recent fair value calculations, if any, review of Duke Energy’s, as well as its peers, stock price performance, credit ratings of Duke Energy’s significant subsidiaries, updates to weighted average cost of capital (WACC) calculations or review of the key inputs to the WACC and consideration of overall economic factors, recent regulatory commission actions and related regulatory climates, and recent financial performance. If the results of qualitative assessments indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, the two-step impairment test is required.  

In 2011, Duke Energy, after completion of its qualitative assessments of the factors noted above, concluded that it was more likely than not the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. Thus, the two step goodwill impairment test was not necessary in 2011.  

For years in which the two step impairment test is necessary, such as was the case in 2010 and 2009, step one of the impairment test involves comparing the fair values of reporting units with their carrying values, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value, step two must be performed to determine the amount, if any, of the goodwill impairment loss. If the carrying amount is less than fair value, further testing of goodwill is not performed.  

Step two of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill against the carrying value of the goodwill. Under step two, determining the implied fair value of goodwill requires the valuation of a reporting unit’s identifiable tangible and intangible assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination on the testing date. The difference between the fair value of the entire reporting unit as determined in step one and the net fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities represents the implied fair value of goodwill. The goodwill impairment charge, if any, would be the difference between the carrying amount of goodwill and the implied fair value of goodwill upon the completion of step two.  

For purposes of the step one analyses, determination of the reporting units’ fair values is based on a combination of the income approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on discounted future cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. Key assumptions used in the income approach analyses for the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas reporting units include, but are not limited to, the use of an appropriate discount rate, estimated future cash flows and estimated run rates of operation, maintenance, and general and administrative costs, and expectations of returns on equity in each regulated jurisdiction that will be achieved. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory stability and ability to renew contracts, as well as other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts.  

Estimated future cash flows under the income approach are based to a large extent on Duke Energy’s internal business plan, and adjusted as appropriate for Duke Energy’s views of market participant assumptions. Duke Energy’s internal business plan reflects management’s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third party sources, projected commodity pricing data and potential changes in environmental regulations. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service and the renewal of certain contracts. Management also makes assumptions regarding the run rate of operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. Should the actual outcome of some or all of these assumptions differ significantly from the current assumptions, revisions to current cash flow assumptions could cause the fair value of Duke Energy’s reporting units to be significantly different in future periods.  

One of the most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the WACC for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the pre-tax cost of debt and cost of equity (a major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on twenty year U.S. Treasury bonds). In the 2010 and 2009 step one impairment tests, Duke Energy considered implied WACC’s for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use in its analysis. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs were adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company specific risk premiums. For example, transmission and distribution reporting units generally would have a lower company specific risk premium as they do not have the higher level of risk associated with owning and operating generation assets nor do they have significant construction risk or risk associated with potential future carbon legislation or pending EPA regulations. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2010, for each of Duke Energy’s domestic reporting units were commensurate with the risks associated with each reporting unit and ranged from 5.75% to 9.0%. For Duke Energy’s international operations, a base discount rate of 8.2% was used, with specific adders used for each separate jurisdiction in which International Energy operates to reflect the differing risk profiles of the jurisdictions and countries. This resulted in discount rates for the August 31, 2010 goodwill impairment test for the international operations ranging from 9.7% to 13.0%. As discussed above, in 2011 Duke Energy performed a qualitative assessment of potential goodwill impairment, and thus a step one valuation was not necessary. Management’s qualitative assessment took into consideration the decline in 2011 of a key input to the WACC calculation; namely, a decline in the current risk-free rate on twenty year U.S. Treasury bonds. Management concluded that had step one valuations been necessary, the decline in this key WACC input would likely have resulted in lower discount rates and higher income approach valuations.  

The underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time; subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in future impairment charges. Management continues to remain alert for any indicators that the fair value of a reporting unit could be below book value and will assess goodwill for impairment as appropriate.  

The majority of Duke Energy’s business is in environments that are either fully or partially rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy’s regulated utilities operate to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, management will continue to monitor changes in the business, as well as overall market conditions and economic factors that could require additional impairment tests.  

Long-Lived Asset Impairment Assessments  

Property, plant and equipment is stated at the lower of historical cost less accumulated depreciation or fair value, if impaired. Duke Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with the carrying value of the assets. Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets, and developing the undiscounted and discounted future cash flows (used to estimate fair value in the absence of market-based value) associated with the asset. Additionally, determining fair values requires probability weighting the cash flows to reflect  

53  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 expectations about possible variations in their amounts or timing and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value of the assets and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. For assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less the cost to sell in order to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.  

When it becomes probable that regulated generation, transmission or distribution assets have been abandoned, the cost of the asset is removed from plant in service. The value that may be retained as an asset on the balance sheet for the abandoned property is dependent upon amounts that may recovered through regulated rates, including any return. As such, an impairment charge could be offset by the establishment of a regulatory asset if rate recovery is probable.  

As discussed further in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Impairments”, in the third quarter of 2011, Commercial Power recorded $79 million of pre-tax impairment charges related to Clean Air Act emission allowances which were no longer expected to be used as a result of the new Cross State Air Pollution Rule. In the second quarter of 2010, Commercial Power recorded $160 million of pre-tax impairment charges related to certain generating assets and emission allowances primarily associated with these generation assets in the Midwest to write-down the value of these assets to their estimated fair value. The generation assets that were subject to this impairment charge were those coal fired generating assets that do not have certain environmental emissions control equipment, causing these generation assets to be potentially heavily impacted by the EPA’s rules on emissions of NOx and SO2. Additionally, in the third quarter of 2009, Commercial Power recorded $42 million of pre-tax impairment charges related to certain generating assets and emission allowances primarily associated with these generation assets in the Midwest to write-down the value of these assets to their estimated fair value. These impairment charges are recorded in Goodwill and Other Impairment Charges on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations.  

Revenue Recognition  

Revenues on sales of electricity and gas are recognized when either the service is provided or the product is delivered. Operating revenues include unbilled electric and gas revenues earned when service has been delivered but not billed by the end of the accounting period. Unbilled retail revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue per kilowatt-hour (kWh) or per Mcf for all customer classes to the number of estimated kWh or Mcf delivered but not billed. Unbilled wholesale energy revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per megawatt-hour (mWh) to the number of estimated mWh delivered but not yet billed. Unbilled wholesale demand revenues are calculated by applying the contractual rate per MW to the MW volume delivered but not yet billed. The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns and customer mix.  

At December 31, 2011 and 2010, Duke Energy had $674 million and $751 million, respectively, of unbilled revenues within Restricted Receivables of Variable Interest Entities and Receivables on their respective Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Accounting for Loss Contingencies  

Duke Energy is involved in certain legal and environmental matters that arise in the normal course of business. In the preparation of its consolidated financial statements, management makes judgments regarding the future outcome of contingent events and records a loss contingency when it is determined that it is probable that a loss has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Management regularly reviews current information available to determine whether such accruals should be adjusted and whether new accruals are required. Estimating probable losses requires analysis of multiple forecasts and scenarios that often depend on judgments about potential actions by third parties, such as federal, state and local courts and other regulators. Contingent liabilities are often resolved over long periods of time. Amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements may differ from the actual outcome once the contingency is resolved, which could have a material impact on future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has experienced numerous claims for indemnification and medical cost reimbursement relating to damages for bodily injuries alleged to have arisen from the exposure to or use of asbestos in connection with construction and maintenance activities conducted by Duke Energy Carolinas on its electric generation plants prior to 1985.  

Amounts recognized as asbestos-related reserves in the respective Consolidated Balance Sheets totaled $801 million and $853 million as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively, and are classified in Other within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities and Other within Current Liabilities. These reserves are based upon the minimum amount in Duke Energy’s best estimate of the range of loss for current and future asbestos claims through 2030. Management believes that it is possible there will be additional claims filed against Duke Energy after 2030. In light of the uncertainties inherent in a longer-term forecast, management does not believe that they can reasonably estimate the indemnity and medical costs that might be incurred after 2030 related to such potential claims. Asbestos-related loss estimates incorporate anticipated inflation, if applicable, and are recorded on an undiscounted basis. These reserves are based upon current estimates and are subject to greater uncertainty as the projection period lengthens. A significant upward or downward trend in the number of claims filed, the nature of the alleged injury, and the average cost of resolving each such claim could change our estimated liability, as could any substantial adverse or favorable verdict at trial. A federal legislative solution, further state tort reform or structured settlement transactions could also change the estimated liability. Given the uncertainties associated with projecting matters into the future and numerous other factors outside our control, management believes that it is possible Duke Energy may incur asbestos liabilities in excess of the recorded reserves.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy’s cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy in 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $968 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of $813 million and $850 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

For further information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Accounting for Income Taxes  

Significant management judgment is required in determining Duke Energy’s provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and the valuation allowance recorded against Duke Energy’s net deferred tax assets, if any.  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the book basis and tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The probability of realizing deferred tax  

54  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 assets is based on forecasts of future taxable income and the use of tax planning that could impact the ability to realize deferred tax assets. If future utilization of deferred tax assets is uncertain, a valuation allowance may be recorded against certain deferred tax assets.  

In assessing the likelihood of realization of deferred tax assets, management considers estimates of the amount and character of future taxable income. Actual income taxes could vary from estimated amounts due to the impacts of various items, including changes to income tax laws, Duke Energy’s forecasted financial condition and results of operations in future periods, as well as results of audits and examinations of filed tax returns by taxing authorities. Although management believes current estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates.  

Significant judgment is also required in computing Duke Energy’s quarterly effective tax rate (ETR). ETR calculations are revised each quarter based on the best full year tax assumptions available at that time, including, but not limited to, income levels, deductions and credits. In accordance with interim tax reporting rules, a tax expense or benefit is recorded every quarter to adjust for the difference in tax expense computed based on the actual year-to-date ETR versus the forecasted annual ETR.  

Duke Energy recognizes tax benefits for positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns, including the decision to exclude certain income or transactions from a return, when a more-likely-than-not threshold is met for a tax position and management believes that the position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. Duke Energy records the largest amount of the tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Management evaluates each position based solely on the technical merits and facts and circumstances of the position, assuming the position will be examined by a taxing authority having full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant management judgment is required to determine recognition thresholds and the related amount of tax benefits to be recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management reevaluates tax positions each period in which new information about recognition or measurement becomes available. The portion of the tax benefit which is uncertain is disclosed in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Undistributed foreign earnings associated with International Energy’s operations are considered indefinitely reinvested, thus no U.S. tax is recorded on such earnings. This assertion is based on management’s determination that the cash held in International Energy’s foreign jurisdictions is not needed to fund the operations of its U.S. operations and that International Energy either has invested or has intentions to reinvest such earnings. While management currently intends to indefinitely reinvest all of International Energy’s unremitted earnings, should circumstances change, Duke Energy may need to record additional income tax expense in the period in which such determination changes. The cumulative undistributed earnings as of December 31, 2011, on which Duke Energy has not provided deferred U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes is $1.7 billion. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability related to these undistributed earnings is estimated at between $250 million and $325 million.  

For further information, see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Income Taxes.”  

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits  

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and pension and other post-retirement liabilities require the use of assumptions. Changes in these assumptions can result in different expense and reported liability amounts, and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes that the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate. Additionally, medical and prescription drug cost trend rate assumptions are critical to Duke Energy’s estimates of other post-retirement benefits.  

Funding requirements for defined benefit plans are determined by government regulations. Duke Energy made voluntary contributions to its defined benefit retirement plans of $200 million in 2011, $400 million in 2010 and $800 million in 2009. In 2012, Duke Energy anticipates making $200 million of contributions to its defined benefit plans.  

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries maintain non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans. The plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits that are based upon a percentage (which may vary with age and years of service) of current eligible earnings and current interest credits. Certain employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. Under a final average earnings formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit equal to a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings, plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings in excess of covered compensation per year of participation (maximum of 35 years), plus a percentage of their highest 3-year average earnings times years of participation in excess of 35 years. Duke Energy also maintains non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.  

Duke Energy and most of its subsidiaries also provide some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Certain employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans.  

Duke Energy recognized pre-tax qualified pension cost of $45 million in 2011. In 2012, Duke Energy’s pre-tax qualified pension cost is expected to be $17 million higher than in 2011 resulting primarily from an increase in net actuarial loss amortization, primarily attributable to the effect of negative actual returns on assets from 2008. Duke Energy recognized pre-tax nonqualified pension cost of $11 million and pre-tax other post-retirement benefits cost of $26 million, in 2011. In 2012, pre-tax non-qualified pension cost is expected to be approximately the same amount as in 2011. In 2012, pre-tax other post-retirement benefits costs are expected to be approximately $8 million lower than in 2011 resulting primarily from an increase in net actuarial gain accretion and a decrease in net transition obligation amortization.  

For both pension and other post-retirement plans, Duke Energy assumes that its plan’s assets will generate a long-term rate of return of 8.00% as of December 31, 2011. The assets for Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement plans are maintained in a master trust. The investment objective of the master trust is to achieve reasonable returns on trust assets, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of enhancing the security of benefits for plan participants. The asset allocation targets were set after considering the investment objective and the risk profile. U.S. equities are held for their high expected return. Non-U.S. equities, debt securities, hedge funds, real estate and other global securities are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are to be diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers or investments. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to its targeted allocation when considered appropriate. Duke Energy also invests other post-retirement assets in the Duke Energy Corporation Employee Benefits Trust (VEBA I). The investment objective of VEBA I is to achieve sufficient returns, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of promoting the security of plan benefits for participants. VEBA I is passively managed.  

The expected long-term rate of return of 8.00% for the plan’s assets was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers. The weighted average returns expected by asset classes were 2.61% for U.S. equities, 1.50% for Non-U.S. equities, 0.99% for global equities, 1.69% for debt securities, 0.37% for global private equity, 0.24% for hedge funds, 0.30% for real estate and 0.30% for other global securities.  

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 5.1% as of December 31, 2011. The discount rates used to measure benefit plan benefit obligations for financial reporting purposes should reflect rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. As of December 31, 2011, Duke Energy determined its discount rate for U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a bond selection-settlement portfolio approach. This approach develops a discount rate by selecting a portfolio of  

55  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 high quality corporate bonds that generate sufficient cash flow to provide for the projected benefit payments of the plan. The selected bond portfolio is derived from a universe of non-callable corporate bonds rated Aa quality or higher. After the bond portfolio is selected, a single interest rate is determined that equates the present value of the plan’s projected benefit payments discounted at this rate with the market value of the bonds selected.  

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact Duke Energy’s future pension expense and liabilities. Management cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2011 pre-tax pension expense, pension obligation and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 0.25% change in rates were to occur:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a medical care trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in medical health care costs. Duke Energy’s U.S. post-retirement plan uses a prescription drug trend rate which reflects the near and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug health care costs. As of December 31, 2011, the medical care trend rates were 8.75%, which grades to 5.00% by 2020. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2011 pre-tax other post-retirement expense and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 1% point change in the health care trend rate were to occur:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For further information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Overview  

At December 31, 2011, Duke Energy had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $2.3 billion, of which $1.0 billion is held in foreign jurisdictions and is forecasted to be used to fund the operations of and investments in International Energy. To fund its domestic liquidity and capital requirements, Duke Energy relies primarily upon cash flows from operations, borrowings, and its existing cash and cash equivalents. The relatively stable operating cash flows of the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas business segment compose a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s cash flows from operations and it is anticipated that it will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. A material adverse change in operations, or in available financing, could impact Duke Energy’s ability to fund its current liquidity and capital resource requirements. Weather conditions, commodity price fluctuations and unanticipated expenses, including unplanned plant outages and storms, could affect the timing and level of internally generated funds.  

Ultimate cash flows from operations are subject to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends and market volatility (see Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for details).  

Duke Energy’s projected capital and investment expenditures for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors. Based on this goal, the majority of Duke Energy’s total projected capital expenditures are allocated to the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas segment. The table below includes the components of projected capital expenditures for U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas for the next three fiscal years.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

56  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

With respect to the 2012 capital expenditure plan, Duke Energy has flexibility within its $4.5 billion budget to defer or eliminate certain spending should economic or financing conditions deteriorate. Of the $4.5 billion budget, $1.6 billion relates to projects for which management has committed capital, including, but not limited to, the continued construction of Cliffside Unit 6, the Edwardsport IGCC plant and the Dan River combined cycle gas-fired facilities, and management intends to spend those capital dollars in 2012 irrespective of broader economic factors. $2.7 billion of projected 2012 capital expenditures are expected to be used primarily for overall system maintenance and upgrades, customer connections, compliance with new environmental requirements and corporate capital expenditures. Although these expenditures are ultimately necessary to ensure overall system maintenance and reliability, the timing of the expenditures may be influenced by broad economic conditions and customer growth, thus management has more flexibility in terms of when these dollars are actually spent. The remaining planned 2012 capital expenditures of $0.2 billion are of a discretionary nature and relate to growth opportunities in which Duke Energy may invest, provided there are opportunities that meet return expectations.  

As a result of Duke Energy’s significant commitment to modernize its generating fleet through the construction of new units, the ability to cost effectively manage the construction phase of current and future projects is critical to ensuring full and timely recovery of costs of construction. Should Duke Energy encounter significant cost overruns above amounts approved by the various state commissions, and those amounts are disallowed for recovery in rates, or if construction cost of renewable generation exceed amounts provided through power sales agreements, future cash flows and results of operations could be adversely impacted.  

Many of Duke Energy’s current capital expenditure projects, including system modernization and renewable investments, qualify for bonus depreciation. Duke Energy estimates that over time it could generate cumulative cash benefits of approximately $2.3 billion for projects expected to be placed in service by the end of 2012. Even though bonus depreciation related to Duke Energy’s regulated projects reduces rate base eligible for inclusion in future rates, the cash benefits will decrease Duke Energy’s need for financings over time and help to mitigate future customer rate increases.  

Duke Energy’s capitalization is balanced between debt and equity as shown in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using SEC guidelines, was 3.2 times for 2011, 3.0 times for 2010, and 3.0 times for 2009.  

In 2012, Duke Energy currently anticipates issuing additional net debt of $400 million, primarily for the purpose of funding capital expenditures. Due to the flexibility in the timing of projected 2012 capital expenditures, the timing and amount of debt issuances throughout 2012 could be influenced by changes in capital spending.  

In November 2011, Duke Energy entered into a new $6 billion, five-year master credit facility with $4.0 billion available at closing and the remaining $2.0 billion available following successful completion of the proposed merger with Progress Energy, Inc. This facility is not restricted upon general market conditions. Additionally, Duke Energy has access to $0.2 billion in a credit facility from smaller regional banks. At December 31, 2011, Duke Energy has available borrowing capacity of $3.3 billion under these facilities. Management currently believes that amounts available under its revolving credit facilities are accessible should there be a need to generate additional short-term financing in 2012. Management expects that cash flows from operations and issuances of debt will be sufficient to cover the 2012 funding requirements related to capital and investments expenditures, dividend payments and debt maturities. See “Credit Facilities” section below for additional information regarding Duke Energy’s credit facilities.  

Duke Energy monitors compliance with all debt covenants and restrictions and does not currently believe it will be in violation or breach of its significant debt covenants during 2012. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view. If and when management had a belief that such potential breach could exist, appropriate action would be taken to mitigate any such issue. Duke Energy also maintains an active dialogue with the credit rating agencies.  

Duke Energy periodically evaluates the impact of repatriation of cash generated and held in foreign countries. Duke Energy’s current intent is to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. However, circumstances could arise that may alter that view, including a future change in tax law governing U.S. taxation of foreign earnings. If Duke Energy were to decide to repatriate foreign generated and held cash, recognition of material U.S. federal income tax liabilities could be required.  

Cash Flow Information  

The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Cash Flows. The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s operating cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

57  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2011 as compared to 2010 was driven primarily by:  

   •    Changes in traditional working capital amounts principally due to a increase in coal inventory, resulting mainly from milder weather and changes in the timing of payment of accounts payable and accrued liabilities, partially offset by;  

   •    A $200 million decrease in contributions to company sponsored pension plans due to prior year pre-funding of contributions resulting from favorable borrowing conditions.  

The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 as compared to 2009 was driven primarily by:  

   •    An increase in net income adjusted for non-cash and non-operating items in 2010 as compared to 2009,  

   •    A $400 million decrease in contributions to company sponsored pension plans due to higher prior year contributions due to unfavorable equity market conditions, and  

   •    Changes in traditional working capital amounts principally due to a decrease in coal inventory mainly due to extreme weather conditions, partially offset by a net decrease in cash from taxes of $480 million.  

Investing Cash Flows The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s investing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2011 as compared to 2010 is primarily due to the following:  

   •    A $290 million decrease in proceeds from sales of equity investments and other assets, and sales of and collections on notes receivable as result of prior year cash received from the sale of a 50% interest in DukeNet and the sale of Duke Energy’s 30% interest in Q-Comm, partially offset by the 2011 sale of Windstream stock received in conjunction with the Q-Comm sale in December 2010 and  

   •    A $230 million increase in purchases of available-for-sale securities, net of proceeds, due to the investment of excess cash held in foreign jurisdictions.  

These increases in cash used were partially offset by the following:  

   •    A $390 million decrease in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures primarily due to construction of the Edwardsport IGCC plant and Cliffside Unit 6 nearing completion.  

Cash used in investing activities in 2010 were consistent as compared to 2009. However significant offsetting changes were:  

   •    A $300 million increase in proceeds from sales of equity investments and other assets, and sales of and collections on notes receivable as result of cash received from the sale of a 50% interest in DukeNet and the sale of Duke Energy’s 30% interest in Q-Comm, net of  

   •    A $300 million increase in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures primarily due to Duke Energy’s ongoing infrastructure modernization program.  

Financing Cash Flows The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s financing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in net cash provided by financing activities in 2011 as compared to 2010 was due primarily to the following:  

   •    A $1,200 million net increase in long-term debt primarily due to financings associated with the ongoing fleet modernization program and  

58  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

   •    A $260 million increase in proceeds from net issuances of notes payable and commercial paper, primarily due to PremierNotes and commercial paper issuances.  

These increases in cash provided were partially offset by:  

   •    A $240 million decrease in proceeds from the issuances of common stock primarily related to the Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) and other internal plans, due to the discontinuance of new share issuances in the first quarter of 2011 and  

   •    A $50 million increase in dividends paid in 2011 due to an increase in dividends per share from $0.245 to $0.25 in the third quarter of 2011. The total annual dividend per share was $0.99 in 2011 compared to $0.97 in 2010.  

The decrease in net cash provided by financing activities in 2010 as compared to 2009 was due primarily to the following:  

   •    A $1,785 million net decrease in long-term debt primarily due to advanced funding of capital expenditures in 2009 as a result of favorable borrowing conditions,  

   •    A $200 million decrease in proceeds from the issuances of common stock primarily related to the DRIP and other internal plans primarily due to the timing of new share issuances, and  

   •    A $60 million increase in dividends paid in 2010 due to an increase in dividends per share from $0.24 to $0.245 in the third quarter of 2010. The total annual dividend per share was $0.97 in 2010 compared to $0.94 in 2009.  

These decreases in cash provided were partially offset by:  

   •    A $490 million increase due to the repayment of outstanding commercial paper in 2009.  

Significant Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt Activities—2011.  

In December 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $1 billion principal amount of first mortgage bonds, of which $350 million carry a fixed interest rate of 1.75% and mature December 15, 2016 and $650 million carry a fixed interest rate of 4.25% and mature December 15, 2041. Proceeds from the issuances were used to repay $750 million 6.25% senior unsecured notes which matured January 15, 2012, with the remainder to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes. 

In November 2011, Duke Energy issued $500 million of senior notes, which carry a fixed interest rate of 2.15% and mature November 15, 2016. Proceeds from the issuance will be used to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In the third quarter of 2011, Duke Energy issued an additional $450 million in Commercial Paper. Proceeds from this issuance were used for general corporate purposes. In the fourth quarter of 2011, Duke Energy repaid $375 million of Commercial Paper with the proceeds from debt issuances discussed below.  

In August 2011, Duke Energy issued $500 million principal amount of senior notes, which carry a fixed interest rate of 3.55% and mature September 15, 2021. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay a portion of Duke Energy’s commercial paper, as discussed above, as it matures, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In May 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $500 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 3.90% and mature June 15, 2021. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

Significant Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt Activities—2010.  

In December 2010, Top of the World Wind Energy, LLC, a subsidiary of Duke Energy Generation Services, Inc. (DEGS), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, entered into a long-term loan agreement for $193 million principal amount maturing in December 2028. The collateral for this loan is substantially all of the assets of Top of the World Windpower LLC. The initial interest rate on the notes is the six month adjusted London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable margin. In connection with this debt issuance, DEGS entered into an interest rate swap to convert the substantial majority of the loan interest payments from a variable rate to a fixed rate of 3.465% plus the applicable margin, which was 2.375% as of December 31, 2011. Proceeds from the issuance will be used to help fund the existing wind portfolio.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $143 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.375% and mature October 2031. Prior to the conversion, the bonds were held by Duke Energy Carolinas as treasury bonds. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $100 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.625% and mature November 1, 2040. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $70 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $70 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds, of which $60 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.375% and mature March 1, 2019, and $10 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.75% and mature April 1, 2022. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds.  

In July 2010, Duke Energy Indiana issued $500 million principal amount of 3.75% first mortgage bonds due July 15, 2020. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $123 million of borrowings under the Master Credit Facility, to fund Duke Energy Indiana’s ongoing capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

In July 2010, International Energy issued $281 million principal amount in Brazil, which carries an interest rate of 8.59% plus IGP-M (Brazil’s monthly inflation index) non-convertible debentures due July 2015. Proceeds of the issuance were used to refinance Brazil debt related to DEIGP and for future debt maturities in Brazil.  

In June 2010, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $450 million principal amount of 4.30% first mortgage bonds due June 15, 2020. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund Duke Energy Carolinas’ ongoing capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

In May 2010, Green Frontier Wind Power, LLC, a subsidiary of DEGS, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, entered into a long-term loan agreement for $325 million principal amount maturing in 2025. The collateral for this loan is a group of five wind farms located in Wyoming, Colorado and Pennsylvania. The initial interest rate on the notes is the six month adjusted LIBOR plus an applicable margin. In connection with this debt issuance, DEGS entered into an interest rate swap to convert the substantial majority of the loan interest payments from a variable rate to a fixed rate of approximately 3.4% plus the applicable margin, which was 2.5% as of December 30, 2011. Proceeds from the issuance were used to help fund the existing wind portfolio.  

In March 2010, Duke Energy issued $450 million principal amount of 3.35% senior notes due April 1, 2015. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay $274 million of borrowings under the master credit facility and for general corporate purposes.  

Significant Notes Payable and Long-Term Debt Activities—2009.  

In December 2009, Duke Energy Ohio issued $250 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 2.10% and mature June 15, 2013. Proceeds from this issuance, together with cash on hand, were used to repay Duke Energy Ohio’s borrowing under Duke Energy’s master credit facility. In conjunction with this debt issuance, Duke Energy Ohio entered into an interest rate swap agreement that converted interest on this debt issuance from the fixed coupon rate to a variable rate. The initial variable rate was set at 0.31%.  

59  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

In November 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas issued $750 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 5.30% and mature February 15, 2040. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, including the repayment at maturity of $500 million of senior notes and first mortgage bonds in the first half of 2010.  

In October 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $50 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds through the issuance of $50 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.95% and mature October 1, 2040. The tax-exempt bonds are secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana repaid and immediately re-borrowed $279 million and $123 million, respectively, under Duke Energy’s master credit facility.  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Carolinas converted $77 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds to tax-exempt term bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 3.60% and mature February 1, 2017. In connection with the conversion, the tax-exempt bonds were secured by a series of Duke Energy Carolinas’ first mortgage bonds.  

In September 2009, Duke Energy Kentucky issued $100 million of senior debentures, which carry a fixed interest rate of 4.65% and mature October 1, 2019. Proceeds from the issuance were used to repay Duke Energy Kentucky’s borrowings under Duke Energy’s master credit facility, to replenish cash used to repay $20 million principal amount of debt due September 15, 2009 and for general corporate purposes.  

In August 2009, Duke Energy issued $1 billion principal amount of senior notes, of which $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 3.95% and mature September 15, 2014 and $500 million carry a fixed interest rate of 5.05% and mature September 15, 2019. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper, to fund capital expenditures in Duke Energy’s unregulated businesses in the U.S. and for general corporate purposes.  

In June 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $55 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds through the issuance of $55 million principal amount of tax-exempt term bonds due August 1, 2039, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.00% and are secured by a series of Duke Energy Indiana’s first mortgage bonds. The refunded bonds were redeemed July 1, 2009.  

In March 2009, Duke Energy Ohio issued $450 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 5.45% and mature April 1, 2019. Proceeds from this issuance were used to repay short-term notes and for general corporate purposes, including funding capital expenditures.  

In March 2009, Duke Energy Indiana issued $450 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, which carry a fixed interest rate of 6.45% and mature April 1, 2039. Proceeds from this issuance were used to fund capital expenditures, to replenish cash used to repay $97 million of senior notes which matured on March 15, 2009, to fund the repayment at maturity of $125 million of first mortgage bonds due July 15, 2009, and for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of short-term notes.  

In January 2009, Duke Energy issued $750 million principal amount of 6.30% senior notes due February 1, 2014. Proceeds from the issuance were used to redeem commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.  

In January 2009, Duke Energy Indiana refunded $271 million of tax-exempt auction rate bonds through the issuance of $271 million of tax-exempt variable-rate demand bonds, which are supported by direct-pay letters of credit, of which $144 million had initial rates of 0.7% reset on a weekly basis with $44 million maturing May 2035, $23 million maturing March 2031 and $77 million maturing December 2039. The remaining $127 million had initial rates of 0.5% reset on a daily basis with $77 million maturing December 2039 and $50 million maturing October 2040.  

60  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Credit Facilities  

Master Credit Facility Summary as of December 31, 2011 (in millions)(a)(b)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) This summary only includes Duke Energy’s master credit facility and, accordingly, excludes certain demand facilities and committed facilities that are insignificant in size or which generally support very specific requirements, which primarily include facilities that backstop various outstanding tax-exempt bonds. These facilities that backstop various outstanding tax-exempt bonds generally have non-cancelable terms in excess of one year from the balance sheet date, such that the Duke Energy Registrants have the ability to refinance such borrowings on a long-term basis. Accordingly, such borrowings are reflected as Long-term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets of the respective Duke Energy Registrant.  

 (b) Credit facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65% for each borrower.  

 (c) Represents the sublimit of each borrower at December 31, 2011. The Duke Energy Ohio sublimit includes $100 million for Duke Energy Kentucky.  

 (d) Duke Energy issued $450 million of Commercial Paper and loaned the proceeds through the money pool to Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Indiana. The balances are classified as long-term borrowings within Long-term Debt in Duke Energy Carolina’s and Duke Energy Indiana’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Duke Energy issued an additional $75 million of Commercial Paper in 2011. The balance is classified as Notes payable and commercial paper on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

In November 2011, Duke Energy entered into a new $6 billion, five-year master credit facility, with $4 billion available at closing and the remaining $2 billion available following successful completion of the proposed merger with Progress Energy. The Duke Energy Registrants each have borrowing capacity under the master credit facility up to specified sublimits for each borrower. However, Duke Energy has the unilateral ability at any time to increase or decrease the borrowing sublimits of each borrower, subject to a maximum sublimit for each borrower. See the table above for the borrowing sublimits for each of the borrowers as of December 31, 2011. The amount available under the master credit facility has been reduced, as indicated in the table above, by the use of the master credit facility to backstop the issuances of commercial paper, letters of credit and certain tax-exempt bonds.  

In April 2010, Duke Energy and Duke Energy Carolinas entered into a $200 million four-year unsecured revolving credit facility, which expires in April 2014. Duke Energy and Duke Energy Carolinas are Co-Borrowers under this facility, with Duke Energy having a borrowing sub limit of $100 million and Duke Energy Carolinas having no borrowing sub limit. Upon closing of the facility, Duke Energy made an initial borrowing of $75 million for general corporate purposes, which is classified as Long-term debt on the Consolidate Balance Sheets.  

In September 2008, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively entered into a $330 million three-year letter of credit agreement with a syndicate of banks, under which Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky may request the issuance of letters of credit up to $279 million and $51 million, respectively, on their behalf to support various series of variable rate demand bonds issued or to be issued on behalf of either Duke Energy Indiana or Duke Energy Kentucky. This credit facility may not be used for any purpose other than to support the variable rate demand bonds issued by Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. In September 2010, the letter of credit agreement was amended to reduce the size to $327 million and extend the maturity date to September 2012. In September 2011, the maturity date for the agreement was extended to December 2012 and in December 2011, the maturity date was extended to March 2013 and the facility size was reduced to $208 million. The facility was subsequently terminated in February 2012.  

In January 2012, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky collectively entered into a $156 million two-year bilateral letter of credit agreement, under which Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky may request the issuance of letters of credit up to $129 million and $27 million, respectively, on their behalf to support various series of variable-rate demand bonds. In addition, Duke Energy Indiana entered into a $78 million two-year bilateral letter of credit facility. These credit facilities may not be used for any purpose other than to support the variable rate demand bonds issued by Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky. In February 2012, letters of credit were issued corresponding to the amount of the facilities to support various series of tax-exempt bonds at Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Kentucky.  

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements. As of December 31, 2011, Duke Energy was in compliance with all covenants related to its significant debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or to the acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.  

61  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Credit Ratings. Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries each hold credit ratings by Standard & Poor’s (S&P) and Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s). Duke Energy’s corporate credit rating and issuer credit rating from S&P and Moody’s, respectively, as of February 1, 2012 is A- and Baa2, respectively. The following table summarizes the February 1, 2012 unsecured credit ratings from the rating agencies retained by Duke Energy and its principal funding subsidiaries.  

Senior Unsecured Credit Ratings Summary as of February 1, 2012  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Duke Energy’s credit ratings are dependent on, among other factors, the ability to generate sufficient cash to fund capital and investment expenditures and pay dividends on its common stock, while maintaining the strength of its current balance sheet. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, Duke Energy is unable to maintain its current balance sheet strength, or if its earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, Duke Energy’s credit ratings could be negatively impacted.  

Credit-Related Clauses. Duke Energy may be required to repay certain debt should the credit ratings at Duke Energy Carolinas fall to a certain level at S&P or Moody’s. As of December 31, 2011, Duke Energy had $2 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2012 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB- at S&P or Baa3 at Moody’s, and $12 million of senior unsecured notes which mature serially through 2016 that may be required to be repaid if Duke Energy Carolinas’ senior unsecured debt ratings fall below BBB at S&P or Baa2 at Moody’s.  

Other Financing Matters.  

At December 31, 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas had $400 million principal amount of 5.625% senior unsecured notes due November 2012 classified as Current maturities of long-term debt on Duke Energy Carolinas’ Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2010, these notes were classified as Long-term Debt on Duke Energy Carolinas’ Consolidated Balance Sheets. Duke Energy Carolinas currently anticipates satisfying this obligation with proceeds from additional borrowings.  

At December 31, 2011, Duke Energy Carolinas had $750 million principal amount of 6.25% senior unsecured notes due January 2012 classified as Current maturities of long-term debt on Duke Energy Carolinas’ Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2010, these notes were classified as Long-term Debt on Duke Energy Carolinas’ Consolidated Balance Sheets. As noted above, in January 2012, Duke Energy Carolinas satisfied this obligation with proceeds from borrowings under the December 31, 2011 debt issuance.  

At December 31, 2011, Duke Energy Ohio had $500 million principal amount of 5.70% debentures due September 2012 classified as Current maturities of long-term debt on Duke Energy Ohio’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2010, these notes were classified as Long-term Debt on Duke Energy Ohio’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Duke Energy Ohio currently anticipates satisfying this obligation with proceeds from additional borrowings.  

In April 2011, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the SEC to sell up to $1 billion variable denomination floating rate demand notes, called PremierNotes. The Form S-3 states that no more than $500 million of the notes will be outstanding at any particular time. The notes are offered on a continuous basis and bear interest at a floating rate per annum determined by the Duke Energy PremierNotes Committee, or its designee, on a weekly basis. The interest rate payable on notes held by an investor may vary based on the principal amount of the investment. The notes have no stated maturity date, but may be redeemed in whole or in part by Duke Energy at any time. The notes are non-transferable and may be redeemed in whole or in part at the investor’s option. Proceeds from the sale of the notes will be used for general corporate purposes. The balance as of December 31, 2011, is $79 million. The notes reflect a short-term debt obligation of Duke Energy and are reflected as Notes payable on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

In September 2010, Duke Energy filed a Form S-3 with the SEC. Under this Form S-3, which is uncapped, Duke Energy, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.  

Duke Energy has paid quarterly cash dividends for 86 consecutive years and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.  

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries. As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Regulatory Matters”, Duke Energy’s wholly-owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy via dividend, advance or loan as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with Duke Energy’s merger with Cinergy. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2011, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly-owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is $8.6 billion. However, Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated Retained Earnings account. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have any significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications.  

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly-owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Capital) through indemnification agreements entered into as part of the spin-off  

62  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 of Spectra Energy Corp (Spectra Energy), having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.  

Duke Energy performs ongoing assessments of its guarantee obligations to determine whether any liabilities have been triggered as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees. 

See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.  

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above and normal operating lease arrangements, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information on these commitments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

63  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS  

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations for each of the periods presented.  

Contractual Obligations as of December 31, 2011  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.” Amount includes interest payments over the life of the debt. Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using interest rates derived from the interpolation of the forecast interest rate curve. In addition, a spread was placed on top of the interest rates to aid in capturing the volatility inherent in projecting future interest rates.  

 (b) See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” Amounts in the table above include the interest component of capital leases based on the interest rates explicitly stated in the lease agreements.  

 (c) Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity, and natural gas transportation contracts.  

 (d) Includes contractual obligations to purchase physical quantities of electricity, coal, nuclear fuel and limestone. Also, includes contracts that Duke Energy has designated as hedges, undesignated contracts and contracts that qualify as normal purchase/normal sale (NPNS). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on forward market prices at December 31, 2011. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting agreements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.  

 (e) Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new generation plants and nuclear plant refurbishments, environmental projects on fossil facilities, major maintenance of certain non-regulated plants, maintenance and day to day contract work at certain wind facilities and commitments to buy wind and combustion turbines (CT). Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase cannot be determined.  

 (f) Relates to future annual funding obligations to the nuclear decommissioning trust fund (NDTF) (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”).  

 (g) The table above excludes certain obligations discussed herein related to amounts recorded within Deferred Credits and Other Liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets due to the uncertainty of the timing and amount of future cash flows necessary to settle these obligations. The amount of cash flows to be paid to settle the asset retirement obligations is not known with certainty as Duke Energy may use internal resources or external resources to perform retirement activities. As a result, cash obligations for asset retirement activities are excluded from the table above. However, the vast majority of asset retirement obligations will be settled beyond 2014. Asset retirement obligations recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets total $1,936 million and the fair value of the NDTF, which will be used to help fund these obligations, is $2,060 million at December 31, 2011. The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing of when cash payments will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans”) and regulatory liabilities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also excluded are Deferred Income Taxes and Investment Tax Credits recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year. Additionally, amounts related to uncertain tax positions are excluded from the table above due to uncertainty of timing of future payments.  

 (h) Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, have been excluded from the above table.  

64  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  

Risk Management Policies  

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, credit exposure, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Management has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Chief Risk Officer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures, credit exposures and overall risk management activities. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall governance of managing credit risk and commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.  

Commodity Price Risk  

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy related assets. The Duke Energy Registrants’ exposure to these fluctuations is limited by the cost-based regulation of its U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas operations as these regulated operations are typically allowed to recover certain of these costs through various cost-recovery clauses, including fuel clauses. While there may be a delay in timing between when these costs are incurred and when these costs are recovered through rates, changes from year to year generally do not have a material impact on operating results of these regulated operations.  

Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. The Duke Energy Registrants’ exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. The Duke Energy Registrants employ established policies and procedures to manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.”  

Validation of a contract’s fair value is performed by an internal group separate from the Duke Energy Registrants’ deal origination areas. While the Duke Energy Registrants use common industry practices to develop their valuation techniques, changes in their pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.  

Hedging Strategies. The Duke Energy Registrants closely monitor the risks associated with commodity price changes on their future operations and, where appropriate, use various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations, in addition to optimizing the value of the non-regulated generation portfolio. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.  

The majority of derivatives used to manage the Duke Energy Registrants commodity price exposure are either not designated as a hedge or do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts. Mark-to-market changes for undesignated contracts entered into by regulated businesses are reflected as a regulatory asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Undesignated contracts entered into by unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.  

Certain derivatives used to manage the Duke Energy Registrants’ commodity price exposure are accounted for as either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges. To the extent that instruments accounted for as hedges are effective in offsetting the transaction being hedged, there is no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations until after delivery or settlement occurs. Accordingly, assumptions and valuation techniques for these contracts have no impact on reported earnings prior to settlement. Several factors influence the effectiveness of a hedge contract, including the use of contracts with different commodities or unmatched terms and counterparty credit risk. Hedge effectiveness is monitored regularly and measured at least quarterly.  

In addition to the hedge contracts described above and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, the Duke Energy Registrants enter into other contracts that qualify for the NPNS exception. When a contract meets the criteria to qualify as an NPNS, U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power apply such exception. Income recognition and realization related to NPNS contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of power. For contracts qualifying for the NPNS exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract as long as the transaction remains probable of occurring.  

Generation Portfolio Risks. The Duke Energy Registrants are primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, natural gas, and coal prices in the U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas and Commercial Power segments. The Duke Energy Registrants optimize the value of their wholesale and non-regulated generation portfolios. The portfolios include generation assets (power and capacity), fuel, and emission allowances. Modeled forecasts of future generation output, fuel requirements, and emission allowance requirements are based on forward power, fuel and emission allowance markets. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. For Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Indiana, as well as the Kentucky regulated generation owned by Duke Energy Ohio, the generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations, although the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations is partially offset by mechanisms in these regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. Duke Energy Ohio is subject to wholesale commodity price risks for its non-regulated coal-fired and gas-fired generation portfolio. The non-regulated generation portfolio dispatches all of their electricity into unregulated markets and receives wholesale energy margins and capacity revenues from PJM. Duke Energy Ohio has fully hedged its forecasted coal-fired generation for 2012. Capacity revenues are 100% contracted in PJM through May 2015. International Energy generally hedges its expected generation using long-term bilateral power sales contracts when favorable market conditions exist and it is subject to wholesale commodity price risks for electricity not sold under such contracts. International Energy dispatches electricity not sold under long-term bilateral contracts into unregulated markets and receives wholesale energy margins and capacity revenues from national system operators. Derivative contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks for delivery periods beyond 2012 are also exposed to changes in fair value due to market price fluctuations of wholesale power and coal. See “Sensitivity Analysis for Generation Portfolio and Derivative Price Risks” below, for more information regarding the effect of changes in commodity prices on the Duke Energy Registrants’ net income.   

Other Commodity Risks. At December 31, 2011, pre-tax income in 2012 was not expected to be materially impacted for exposures to other commodities’ price changes.  

Sensitivity Analysis for Generation Portfolio and Derivative Price Risks  

The table below summarizes the estimated effect of commodity price changes on the Duke Energy Registrants’ pre-tax net income, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010 for Duke Energy and Duke Energy Ohio. Duke Energy Carolinas’ and Duke Energy Indiana’s forecasted exposure to commodity price risk is not anticipated to have a material adverse  

65  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 effect on its consolidated results of operations in 2012, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2011. The sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2010, related to forecasted exposure to commodity price risk during 2011 also indicated that commodity price risk would not have a material adverse effect on Duke Energy Carolinas’ and Duke Energy Indiana’s consolidated results of operations during 2011 and the impacts of changing commodity prices in its consolidated results of operations for 2011 was insignificant. The following commodity price sensitivity calculations consider existing hedge positions and estimated production levels, as indicated in the table below, but do not consider other potential effects that might result from such changes in commodity prices.  

Summary of Sensitivity Analysis for Generation Portfolio and Derivative Price Risks  

($ in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts related to forward wholesale prices represent the potential impact of commodity price changes on forecasted economic generation which has not been contracted or hedged. Amounts related to forward coal prices and forward gas prices represent the potential impact of commodity price changes on fuel needed to achieve such economic generation. Amounts exclude the impact of mark-to-market changes on undesignated contracts relating to periods in excess of one year from the respective date.  

 (b) Amounts represent sensitivities related to derivative contracts executed to manage generation portfolio risks for periods beyond 2012. Amounts exclude the potential impact of commodity price changes on forecasted economic generation and fuel needed to achieve such forecasted generation.  

Credit Risk  

Credit risk represents the loss that the Duke Energy Registrants would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. To reduce credit exposure, the Duke Energy Registrants seek to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit them to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Duke Energy Registrants attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable obtaining collateral or terminating or resetting the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events. The Duke Energy Registrants may, at times, use credit derivatives or other structures and techniques to provide for third-party credit enhancement of their counterparties’ obligations. The Duke Energy Registrants also obtain cash or letters of credit from customers to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on a financial analysis of the customer and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” for additional information regarding credit risk related to derivative instruments.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ industry has historically operated under negotiated credit lines for physical delivery contracts. The Duke Energy Registrants frequently use master collateral agreements to mitigate certain credit exposures. The collateral agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents a negotiated unsecured credit limit for each party to the agreement, determined in accordance with the Duke Energy Registrants’ internal corporate credit practices and standards. Collateral agreements generally also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions.  

The Duke Energy Registrants’ principal customers for its electric and gas businesses are commodity clearinghouses, regional transmission organizations, industrial end-users, marketers, distribution companies, municipalities, electric cooperatives and utilities located throughout the U.S. and Latin America. The Duke Energy Registrants have concentrations of receivables from such entities throughout these regions. These concentrations of customers may affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. Where exposed to credit risk, the Duke Energy Registrants analyze the counterparties’ financial condition prior to entering into an agreement, establish credit limits and monitor the appropriateness of those limits on an ongoing basis.  

Duke Energy has a third-party insurance policy to cover certain losses related to Duke Energy Carolinas’ asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self insured retention of $476 million. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self insurance retention on its insurance policy during the second quarter of 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by Duke Energy’s third party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries for indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $968 million in excess of the self insured retention. Insurance recoveries of $813 million and $850 million related to this policy are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Duke Energy is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Management believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.  

The Duke Energy Registrants also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly-owned entities and third parties. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued these guarantees, it is possible that the Duke Energy Registrants could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, they attempt to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by Duke Energy or its subsidiaries.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are also subject to credit risk of their vendors and suppliers in the form of performance risk on contracts including, but not limited to, outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and commodity purchases. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit exposure to such vendors and suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of non-performance.  

66  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

Based on the Duke Energy Registrants’ policies for managing credit risk, their exposures and their credit and other reserves, the Duke Energy Registrants do not currently anticipate a materially adverse effect on their consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty.  

Retail. Credit risk associated with the Duke Energy Registrants’ service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. The Duke Energy Registrants mitigate this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit or letter of credit until a satisfactory payment history is established, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of the Duke Energy Registrants and are typically recovered through the retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections through CRC, a Duke Energy consolidated variable interest entity. Losses on collection are first absorbed by the equity of CRC and next by the subordinated retained interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.”  

Wholesale Sales. To reduce credit exposure related to wholesale sales, the Duke Energy Registrants seeks to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit the Duke Energy Registrants to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Duke Energy Registrants attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by entering into agreements that enable the Duke Energy Registrants to obtain collateral or to terminate or reset the terms of transactions after specified time periods or upon the occurrence of credit-related events.  

European Exposures. Duke Energy owns a 25% ownership interest in Attiki, a natural gas distributor located in Athens, Greece. The carrying value of Duke Energy’s investment in Attiki was $64 million at December 31, 2011, and is recorded in Other within Investments and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Duke Energy also has a $64 million debt obligation associated with its investment in Attiki. Duke Energy has an agreement to sell its ownership interest in Attiki. If all conditions of this agreement are met, Duke Energy expects the transaction to close in March 2012. At December 31, 2011, Duke Energy held $285 million of money market funds and short term investments in investment-grade debt securities of issued by financial and nonfinancial institutions that are domiciled in Europe or have exposures to European sovereign debt. This amount is recorded at fair value and included in Cash and cash equivalents and Short-term investment in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. A disorderly default by the Greek government or withdrawal of Greece from the euro zone and financial stress in other European countries could require Duke Energy to recognize an impairment of some or all of these securities.  

Interest Rate Risk  

The Duke Energy Registrants are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of their issuance of variable and fixed rate debt and commercial paper. The Duke Energy Registrants manage interest rate exposure by limiting variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total capitalization and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. The Duke Energy Registrants also enter into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 6, 14, and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Debt and Credit Facilities,” “Risk Management, Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,” and “Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities.”  

The table below summarizes the potential effect of interest rate changes on the Duke Energy Registrants’ pre-tax net income, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.  

Summary of Sensitivity Analysis for Interest Rate Risks  

($ in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts presented net of offsetting impacts in interest income.  

These amounts were estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges, short-term and long-term investments, cash and cash equivalents outstanding as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The change in interest rate sensitivity for the Duke Energy Registrants’ is primarily due to changes in short-term debt balances and cash balances. If interest rates changed significantly, management would likely take actions to manage its exposure to the change. However, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in the Duke Energy Registrants’ financial structure.  

Marketable Securities Price Risk  

Duke Energy  

As described further in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in debt and equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations of the business. The vast majority of the investments in equity securities are within the NDTF and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.  

Pension Plan Assets. Duke Energy maintains investments to help fund the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. The equity securities held in Duke Energy’s pension plans are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its pension plan  

67  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. These target allocations are presented in the table below.  

Target Asset allocation for Pension Plan Assets  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase its funding of the pension plan in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension cost required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy’s results of operations in those periods. The Subsidiary Registrants’ proportionate share of Duke Energy’s costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rate, the rate of increase in health care costs and contributions made to the plans. During 2011, Duke Energy contributed $200 million to its qualified pension plan of which $33 million was funded by Duke Energy Carolinas, $48 million was funded by Duke Energy Ohio and $52 million was funded by Duke Energy Indiana. Duke Energy intends to contribute $200 million to its qualified pension plan in 2012. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans,” for additional information on pension plan assets.  

NDTF. As required by the NRC and the NCUC, Duke Energy Carolinas maintains trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations”). As of December 31, 2011, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, fixed-income securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per the NRC and the NCUC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. The investments in equity securities are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets. Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through Duke Energy Carolinas’ rates; therefore, fluctuations in equity prices do not affect Duke Energy Carolinas’ Consolidated Statements of Operations as changes in the fair value of these investments are deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to an Order by the NCUC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through Duke Energy Carolinas’ rates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations” for additional information regarding nuclear decommissioning costs. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” for additional information regarding NTDF assets.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

Duke Energy is exposed to foreign currency risk from investments in international affiliate businesses owned and operated in foreign countries and from certain commodity-related transactions within domestic operations that are denominated in foreign currencies. To mitigate risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, contracts may be denominated in or indexed to the U.S. Dollar/inflation rates and/or local inflation rates, or investments may be naturally hedged through debt denominated or issued in the foreign currency. Duke Energy may also use foreign currency derivatives, where possible, to manage its risk related to foreign currency fluctuations. To monitor its currency exchange rate risks, Duke Energy uses sensitivity analysis, which measures the impact of devaluation of the foreign currencies to which it has exposure.  

In 2011, Duke Energy’s primary foreign currency rate exposure was to the Brazilian Real. The table below summarizes the potential effect of foreign currency devaluations on Duke Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Balance Sheets, based on a sensitivity analysis performed as of December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010.  

Summary of Sensitivity Analysis for Foreign Currency Risks  

($ in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts represent the potential annual net pre-tax loss on the translation of local currency earnings to the Consolidated Statement of Operations in 2012 and 2011, respectively.  

 (b) Amounts represent the potential impact to the currency translation through the cumulative translation adjustment in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

Other Issues  

General. The Duke Energy Registrants’ fixed charges coverage ratios, as calculated using SEC guidelines, are included in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

68  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 (a) Duke Energy Ohio’s earnings were insufficient to cover fixed charges by $317 million in 2010 and $244 million in 2009 due primarily to non-cash goodwill and other asset impairment charges of $677 million in 2010 and $727 million in 2009, respectively.  

Global Climate Change and Other EPA Regulations Under Development.  

The EPA publishes an inventory of man-made U.S. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions annually. In 2009, the most recent year reported, carbon dioxide (CO2), a byproduct of all sources of combustion, accounted for approximately 83% of total U.S. GHG emissions. The Duke Energy Registrants’ GHG emissions consist primarily of CO2 and most come from its fleet of coal-fired power plants in the U.S. In 2011, the Duke Energy Registrants’ U.S. power plants emitted approximately 91 million tons of CO2. The CO2 emissions from Duke Energy’s international electric operations were approximately 2.3 million tons. The Duke Energy Registrants’ future CO2 emissions will be influenced by variables including new regulations, economic conditions that affect electricity demand, and the Duke Energy Registrants’ decisions regarding generation technologies deployed to meet customer electricity needs.  

The Duke Energy Registrants believe it is highly unlikely that legislation mandating reductions in GHG emissions will be passed by the 112th Congress which ends at the end of 2012. Beyond 2012 the prospects for enactment of any federal legislation mandating reductions in GHG emissions is highly uncertain. Given the high degree of uncertainty surrounding potential future mandatory federal GHG emission reduction l legislation, management cannot predict if or when such legislation might be enacted, what the requirements of any potential legislation might be, or the potential impact it might have on the Duke Energy Registrants. Among the outcomes of the 17th Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change was a decision by the participating countries to adopt a universal legal agreement no later than 2015 to be put into place by 2020. The conference, which was held in Durban, South Africa, again revealed significant differences of opinion amongst nations, particularly between developed and developing economies, but there was agreement to continue the search for common ground. The non-binding pledge to reach agreement by 2015 was reached only after delegates agreed to extend the conference an extra day. The international climate change negotiating process is highly uncertain and management cannot predict what the outcome might be or the potential impact it might have on the Duke Energy Registrants.  

On December 7, 2009, the EPA finalized an Endangerment Finding for greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act (CAA). The Endangerment Finding did not impose any regulatory requirements on the electric utility industry, but it was a necessary prerequisite for the EPA to be able to finalize several subsequent GHG rules. A subsequent EPA regulation of GHGs from mobile sources issued in 2010 resulted in GHGs being pollutants subject to regulation under the CAA, thereby subjecting newly constructed and modified stationary sources to the CAA’s Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) permitting program for increases in GHGs. Without any changes, the CAA requirements would have subjected tens of thousands of additional stationary sources of GHG emissions to PSD permitting requirements. To avoid this result, the EPA issued the Tailoring Rule on June 3, 2010. Under the Tailoring Rule, new major stationary sources of GHGs and existing major stationary sources of GHGs that undertake a modification that will result in a net GHG emissions increase of at least 75,000 tons per year are subject to GHG permitting requirements under the PSD permitting program. All of the Duke Energy Registrants’ existing coal-fired generating units and several of its natural gas-fired generating units are major sources of GHG emissions. The PSD permitting program requires sources that trigger PSD permitting requirements for GHGs to perform a Best Available Control Technology (BACT) analysis for GHG emissions to determine what, if any, actions must be taken at the source to limit its GHG emissions. In each of the states in which the Duke Energy Registrants operates major stationary sources of GHG emissions, the state is the permitting authority for the PSD program. This means that the states will ultimately determine the BACT requirements that will apply in the event a Duke Energy Registrant triggers PSD permitting requirements for GHG emissions at any of its new or existing facilities.  

Greenhouse gas PSD permitting requirements and the application of BACT to limit GHG emissions do not apply to any existing source that does not undertake a modification resulting in a net GHG emissions increase of at least 75,000 tons per year. While the Duke Energy Registrants do not anticipate taking actions that would trigger the PSD permitting requirements for GHGs at any of its existing generating facilities or facilities currently under construction, if it were to do so, management does not believe that it would have a material impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ future results of operations.  

Numerous entities have filed petitions with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals for review of EPA’s Endangerment Finding and Tailoring Rule. Management cannot predict the outcome of the litigation. Oral arguments in the case are scheduled for February 28 and 29, 2012. A decision in the case is likely in the second or third quarter of 2012. On March 2, 2011, the EPA entered into a settlement agreement requiring it to propose by July 26, 2011, (this date was later revised to September 30, 2011) and finalize by May 26, 2012, a rule to establish GHG emission standards (New Source Performance Standards, or NSPS) for new fossil-fueled electric generating units and existing fossil-fueled electric generating units that undertake a major modification. The settlement agreement also required the EPA to issue on the same schedule emission guidelines for states for their use in developing plans for reducing GHG emissions at existing fossil-fueled electric generating units that do not undertake a major modification. Recent developments indicate that the EPA will first propose a NSPS rule that covers new and possibly modified sources, in early 2012. Under the NSPS program, the rule takes effect upon proposal. There is no indication when the EPA might issue proposed emission guidelines for existing sources. The outcome of these pending EPA regulatory actions is uncertain and management cannot determine at this time if they will have a material impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ future results of operations or cash flows.  

The Duke Energy Registrants do not anticipate any of the states in which it currently operates fossil-fueled electric generating units to take action absent a federal requirement to mandate reductions in GHG emissions from these facilities.  

The Duke Energy Registrants are taking actions today that will result in reduced GHG emissions over time. These actions will lower the Duke Energy Registrants’ exposure to any future mandatory GHG emission reduction requirements, whether a result of federal legislation or EPA regulation. Under any future scenario involving mandatory GHG limitations, the Duke Energy Registrants would plan to seek recovery of their compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms in the jurisdictions in which it operates.  

The Duke Energy Registrants recognize that certain groups associate severe weather events with climate change, and forecast the possibility that these weather events could have a material impact on future results of operations should they occur more frequently and with greater severity. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes of extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration, and severity), the long period of time over which any potential changes might take place, and the inability to predict these with any degree of accuracy, make estimating any potential future financial risk to the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations that may result from the physical risks of potential changes in the frequency and/or severity of extreme weather events, whatever the cause or causes might be, impossible. Currently, the Duke Energy Registrants plan and prepare for extreme weather events that it experiences from time to time, such as ice storms, tornados, hurricanes, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts. The Duke Energy Registrants’ past experiences preparing for and responding to the impacts of these types of weather-related events would reasonably be expected to help management plan and prepare for future severe weather events to reduce, but not eliminate, the operational, economic and financial impacts of such events. For example, the Duke Energy Registrants routinely take steps to reduce the potential impact of severe weather events on its electric distribution systems. The Duke Energy Registrants’ electric generating facilities are designed to withstand extreme weather events without significant damage. The Duke Energy Registrants maintain an inventory of coal and oil on site to mitigate the effects of any potential short-term disruption in its fuel supply so it can continue to provide its customers with an uninterrupted supply of electricity. The Duke Energy  

69  

Table of Contents 

PART II  

 Registrants have a program in place to effectively manage the impact of future droughts on its operations. The Duke Energy Registrants do not currently operate in coastal areas and therefore are not exposed to the effects of potential sea level rise.  

Other EPA Regulations Recently Published and Under Development. The EPA has issued and is in various stages of developing several non-greenhouse gas (non-GHG) environmental regulations that will affect the Duke Energy Registrants. These include the final Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) and the final Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS, previously referred to as the Utility MACT Rule) for hazardous air pollutants, as well as proposed regulations for cooling water intake structures under the Clean Water Act 316(b) and proposed regulations for coal combustion residuals. As a group, these non-GHG environmental regulations will require the Duke Energy Registrants to install additional environmental controls and accelerate retirement of some coal-fired units. While the ultimate regulatory requirements for the Duke Energy Registrants from the group of EPA regulatory actions will not be known until all the rules have been finalized, for planning purposes, the Duke Energy Registrants currently estimate the cost of new control equipment that may need to be installed to comply with this group of rules could total $4.5 billion to $5 billion over the next 10 years. The Duke Energy Registrants also expect to incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance, and other expenses in conjunction with the non-GHG EPA regulations. In addition to the planned retirements associated with new generation the Duke Energy Registrants are constructing, the Duke Energy Registrants are planning to retire additional coal fired generating capacity that is not economic to bring into compliance with the EPA’s regulations. Beyond 2011, total planned and additional retirements could exceed 3,300 MW of coal-fired generating capacity (with 1,667 MW required by the end of 2020 per the Cliffside Settlement Agreement as discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statement, “Commitments and Contingencies”). Until the final regulatory requirements of the group of EPA regulations are known and can be fully evaluated, the potential compliance costs associated with these EPA regulatory actions are subject to considerable uncertainty. Therefore, the actual compliance costs incurred and MW to be retired may be materially different from these estimates based on the timing and requirements of the final EPA regulations.  

For additional information on other issues related to the Duke Energy Registrants, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”  

New Accounting Standards  

The following new Accounting Standards Updates (ASU) have been issued, but have not yet been adopted by Duke Energy, as of December 31, 2011:  

ASC 820—Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. In May 2011, the FASB amended existing requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements. This revised guidance results in a consistent definition of fair value, as well as common requirements for measurement and disclosure of fair value information between U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). In addition, the amendments set forth enhanced disclosure requirements with respect to recurring Level 3 measurements, nonfinancial assets measured or disclosed at fair value, transfers between levels in the fair value hierarchy, and assets and liabilities disclosed but not recorded at fair value. For the Duke Energy Registrants, the revised fair value measurement guidance is effective on a prospective basis for interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2012. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the potential impact of the adoption of this revised guidance and is unable to estimate at this time the impact of adoption on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows, or financial position.  

ASC 220—Comprehensive Income. In June 2011, the FASB amended the existing requirements for presenting comprehensive income in financial statements primarily to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income (OCI) and to facilitate the convergence of U.S. GAAP and IFRS. Specifically, the revised guidance eliminates the option currently provided under existing requirements to present components of OCI as part of the statement of changes in stockholders’ equity. Accordingly, all non-owner changes in stockholders’ equity will be required to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive financial statements. For the Duke Energy Registrants, this revised guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2012. Early adoption of this revised guidance is permitted. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the revised requirements for presenting comprehensive income in its financial statements and is unable to estimate at this time the impact of adoption of this revised guidance on its consolidated results of operations.  

ASC 210—Balance Sheet. In December 2011, the FASB issued revised accounting guidance to amend the existing disclosure requirements for offsetting financial assets and liabilities to enhance current disclosures, as well as to improve comparability of balance sheets prepared under U.S. GAAP and IFRS. The revised disclosure guidance affects all companies that have financial instruments and derivative instruments that are either offset in the balance sheet (i.e., presented on a net basis) or subject to an enforceable master netting and/or similar arrangement. In addition, the revised guidance requires that certain enhanced quantitative and qualitative disclosures be made with respect to a company’s netting arrangements and/or rights of setoff associated with its financial instruments and/or derivative instruments. For the Duke Energy Registrants, the revised disclosure guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for interim and annual periods beginning January 1, 2013. Duke Energy is currently evaluating the potential impact of the adoption of this revised guidance and is unable to estimate at this time the impact of adoption on its consolidated results of financial position.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk