PART I

Item 1.Business

The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ("Interpublic," the "Company," "IPG," "we," "us" or "our") was incorporated in Delaware in September 1930 under the name of McCann-Erickson Incorporated as the successor to the advertising agency businesses founded in 1902 by A.W. Erickson and in 1911 by Harrison K. McCann. The Company has operated under the Interpublic name since January 1961.

About Us

We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. Through our 50,200 employees in all major world markets, our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations and specialized communications disciplines. Our agencies create customized marketing programs for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services, and gain market share.

The work we produce for our clients is specific to their unique needs. Our solutions vary from project-based activity involving one agency to long-term, fully integrated campaigns created by multiple IPG agencies working together. With offices in over 100 countries, we can operate in a single region or deliver global integrated programs.

The role of our holding company is to provide resources and support to ensure that our agencies can best meet clients’ needs. Based in New York City, our holding company sets company-wide financial objectives and corporate strategy, establishes financial management and operational controls, guides personnel policy, directs collaborative inter-agency programs, conducts investor relations, manages corporate social responsibility programs, provides enterprise risk management and oversees mergers and acquisitions. In addition, we provide certain centralized functional services that offer our companies operational efficiencies, including accounting and finance, executive compensation management and recruitment assistance, employee benefits, marketing information retrieval and analysis, internal audit, legal services, real estate expertise and travel services.

Our Brands

Interpublic is home to some of the world’s best-known and most innovative communications specialists. We have three global networks: McCann Worldgroup, Foote, Cone & Belding ("FCB") and MullenLowe Group, which provide integrated, large-scale advertising and marketing solutions for clients. Our global media services companies include UM and Initiative, which operate under the IPG Mediabrands umbrella. We also have a range of best-in-class global specialized communications assets as well as premier domestic integrated and digital agencies that are industry leaders.

•McCann Worldgroup is a leading global marketing solutions network united across 100+ countries by a single vision: to help brands play a meaningful role in people’s lives. The network is comprised of agencies that emphasize creativity, innovation and performance. The global components of McCann Worldgroup are McCann, one of the world's largest advertising agency networks; MRM//McCann, a digital marketing and relationship management agency; Momentum Worldwide, a brand experience agency; McCann Health, a professional and direct-to-consumer health communications network; ChaseDesign, a shopper marketing specialist; PMK-BNC, the talent, entertainment and brand agency; and CRAFT, the network’s global adaptation and production arm. UM (media management), Weber Shandwick (public relations) and FutureBrand (consulting/design) align with McCann Worldgroup to deliver fully integrated solutions.

•FCB is a global marketing communications company. Based on an understanding of diversified markets and cultures, FCB focuses on creating “Never Finished” ideas for clients that reflect each brand’s past and anticipate its future. FCB also offers a range of best-in-class, integrated and specialist marketing capabilities: FCB Health, one of the world’s most awarded healthcare marketing networks; shopper-first agency FCB/RED; design agency Chute Gerdeman; experiential agency FCBX; production studios Lord + Thomas and FuelContent; CRM agency FCB/SIX; and digital agencies New Honor Society and HelloComputer.

•MullenLowe Group is a creatively-driven integrated marketing communications network with a strong entrepreneurial heritage and challenger mentality. A global creative boutique of distinctive agencies, MullenLowe Group is rich in local culture and scale, present in more than 65 markets with over 90 agencies. With a hyperbundled operating model, global specialisms include expertise in brand strategy, through-the-line advertising with MullenLowe; digital transformation with MullenLowe Profero; media and communications planning and buying with MullenLowe Mediahub; customer experience activation with MullenLowe Open; and consumer and corporate PR with MullenLowe PR and MullenLowe Salt. The group is focused on delivering an “Unfair Share of Attention” for clients and is consistently ranked among the 

2

most awarded creative and effective agency networks in the world, having topped the Effie Index as the most effective global network in terms of points per dollar of revenue for the past seven consecutive years.

•IPG Mediabrands manages IPG’s global media-related assets and oversees marketing investment for many of the world’s most iconic brands. The agency group delivers business results for clients by providing strategic counsel and advisory services to navigate the fast-evolving consumer and media landscape. These solutions are developed and executed through integrated, data-driven marketing strategies. IPG Mediabrands’ expansive network of agencies includes UM, Initiative, Cadreon, Orion Worldwide and Reprise as well as specialty business units including Healix, Identity, IPG Media Lab, MAGNA and Rapport. The specialist agencies focus on media innovation, forecasting, product development, branded content, emerging technology, mobile, search and social, out-of-home and more.

•We also have exceptional global marketing specialists across a range of disciplines. Our industry-leading public relations agencies such as Weber Shandwick, Golin, DeVries Global, Creation and Current Marketing have expertise in every significant area of communication management. Jack Morton is a global brand experience agency, and FutureBrand is a leading brand consultancy. Octagon is a global sports, entertainment and lifestyle marketing agency. Our digital specialist agencies, led by R/GA, Huge and MRM//McCann, are among the industry's most award-winning digital agencies. Our premier healthcare communications specialists reside within our global creative networks.

•Our domestic integrated independent agencies include some of advertising's most recognizable and storied agency brands, including Carmichael Lynch, Deutsch, Hill Holliday and The Martin Agency. The marketing programs created by these agencies incorporate all media channels, CRM, public relations and other marketing activities and have helped build some of the most powerful brands in the U.S., across all sectors and industries.

We list approximately 100 of our companies on our website under the "Our Agencies" section, with descriptions, case studies, social media channels and office locations for each. To learn more about our broad range of capabilities, visit our website at www.interpublic.com. Information on our website is not part of this report.

Market Strategy

We operate in a media landscape that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to make investments in creative and strategic talent in areas including fast-growth digital marketing channels, high-growth geographic regions and strategic world markets. In addition, we consistently review opportunities within our Company to enhance our operations through acquisitions and strategic alliances and internal programs that encourage intra-company collaboration. As appropriate, we also develop relationships with technology and emerging media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies' skill sets and capabilities.

In recent years, we have taken several major strategic steps to position our agencies as leaders in the global advertising and communications market. These include:

•Investment in senior talent:  Our continued ability to attract and develop top talent and to be the industry’s employer of choice for an increasingly diverse workforce have been key differentiators for IPG. We continue to acquire and develop top strategic, creative and digital talent from a range of backgrounds.

•Growing digital capabilities: Our investments in talent and technology - organically growing digital capabilities such as search, social, user experience (UX), content creation, data and analytics, and mobile across the portfolio - promise to drive further growth in this dynamic sector of our business. We continue to internationalize our powerful digital specialist agencies.

•Investment in emerging and strategic markets: We strengthened our position in emerging markets by driving organic growth as well as completing strategic acquisitions in Asia, Europe, Latin America, North America and Russia.

•Integrated marketing solutions: A differentiating aspect of our business is our utilization of “open architecture” solutions that integrate the best talent from throughout the organization to fulfill the needs of our leading clients.

Together, these steps have built a culture of strategic creativity and high performance across IPG, resulting in IPG posting strong organic growth, as well as increased honors and awards for our Company.

In 2017, at both the Cannes Festival of Creativity and the Global Effie Awards, IPG performed better than any other holding group in terms of awards per dollar of revenue. At Cannes, IPG agencies took home seven Grand Prix awards, the top award given out at the Festival, more than any other holding company; the tally included the Grand Prix for Good at the Health Lions and the Titanium Lion, the Festival's top creative honor. The IPG agencies that won top prizes at Cannes span the spectrum of marketing disciplines and geographies and included Area 23, Deutsch, FCB, Fitzgerald & Co, FP7, Huge, McCann, McCann Health, MRM//McCann, MullenLowe, MullenLowe Mediahub, R/GA, The Martin Agency and Weber Shandwick.

3

In the U.S. market, IPG once again excelled in Advertising Age’s annual "A-List," a ranking of the industry's ten most innovative and creative agencies. McCann and R/GA were named #2 and #3, respectively, making IPG the only holding company to have multiple agencies on the prestigious list. Additionally, MullenLowe Group, Momentum and Weber Shandwick were all named Agency A-List "Standouts," and The Martin Agency and McCann New York were named "Creativity Innovators." Additional IPG agencies recognized by Ad Age include Hill Holliday, named an "Agency to Watch," and Deutsch LA, honored as a "Creativity Innovator Standout."

Additionally, IPG agencies swept the 2017 PRWeek Awards, with Weber Shandwick, Carmichael Lynch Relate, Golin, DeVries and MullenLowe all receiving top honors.

Digital Growth

Demand for our digital marketing services continues to evolve rapidly. In order to meet this need and provide high-value resources to clients, we have focused on embedding digital talent and technology throughout the organization. This reflects our belief that digital marketing should be integrated within all of our companies. This structure mirrors the way in which consumers incorporate digital media into their other media habits and, ultimately, their daily lives. We continue to invest in recruiting and developing digital expertise at all our agencies and in all marketing disciplines.

To meet the changing needs of the marketplace, we have been active in making new acquisitions and minority investments in specialty digital assets. In addition, we have consistently invested in existing assets such as Cadreon (audience management platform), the IPG Media Lab, Huge, MRM//McCann and R/GA. These companies have unique capabilities and service their own client rosters, while also serving as key digital partners to many of the agencies within IPG.

Fast-Growth and Strategic Regions

We continue to invest and expand our presence in high-growth and strategic geographic regions. In recent years, we have made significant investments in Russia, Brazil, India and China, further strengthening our position in these important developing markets. Our operations in India are best-in-class, and we will continue to invest in partnerships and talent in this key market. We also hold a majority stake in the Middle East Communication Networks (“MCN”), among the region's premier marketing services companies. MCN is headquartered in Dubai, with 75 offices across 13 countries. In China, where we operate with all of our global networks and across the full spectrum of marketing services, we continue to invest organically in the talent of our agency brands and opportunistically acquire specialty offerings. Additional areas of investment include key strategic markets in North America, Asia Pacific, Latin America and Africa.

Diversity and Inclusion

IPG and our agencies are committed to diversity and inclusion, and we reinforce these values through a comprehensive set of award-winning programs. These include business resource groups that develop career building programs, as well as training around topics like unconscious bias. We seek to ensure accountability by tying executive compensation directly to the ability of our leaders to hire, promote and retain diverse talent, and we regularly measure the inclusiveness of our culture with a company-wide climate for inclusion survey.

We began our formal programs over a decade ago. Since then, IPG has seen dramatic improvements in the diversity of our workforce. In the U.S., IPG exceeded the ad industry’s representation rates for women and minorities for both professional-level and management positions in the most recent filings. An environment that encourages respect and trust is key to a creative business like ours, and IPG believes a competitive advantage comes with having a variety of perspectives and beliefs in its workforce.

Acquisition Strategy

A disciplined acquisition strategy, focused on high-growth capabilities and regions of the world, is one component of growing our services in today's rapidly-changing marketing services and media landscape. When an outstanding resource or a strong tactical fit becomes available, we have been opportunistic in making tuck-in, niche acquisitions that enhance our service offerings. We will continue to focus on digital and marketing services agencies throughout the world and on key international growth markets.

In recent years, IPG has acquired agencies across the marketing spectrum, including firms specializing in digital, mobile marketing, social media, healthcare communications and public relations, as well as agencies with full-service capabilities. These acquired agencies have been integrated into one of our global networks or specialist agencies. In 2017, IPG’s acquisitions included a digital marketing agency based in the U.S., a data science and business intelligence firm based in the U.S. with operations in China, an advertising and consulting company based in Indonesia, a strategic communications agency based in the U.K., an independent creative agency based in the U.K., a retail branding and design firm based in the U.S., a content creation and marketing agency based in the Netherlands, an independent media agency and digital consultancy based in Finland, and an integrated marketing communications agency based in Canada.

4

Financial Objectives

Our financial goals include competitive organic revenue growth and operating margin expansion, which we expect will further strengthen our balance sheet and total liquidity and increase value to our shareholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate, information technology and shared services, such as finance, human resources and legal. The improvements we have made and continue to make in our financial reporting and business information systems in recent years allow us more timely and actionable insights from our global operations. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage and grow our business. We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and deliver long-term shareholder value.

Financial Reporting Segments

We have two reportable segments, which are Integrated Agency Networks (“IAN”) and Constituency Management Group (“CMG”). IAN is comprised of McCann Worldgroup, FCB, MullenLowe Group, IPG Mediabrands, our digital specialist agencies and our domestic integrated agencies. CMG is comprised of a number of our specialist marketing services offerings. We also report results for the “Corporate and other” group. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Principal Markets

Our agencies are located in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Our geographic revenue breakdown is listed below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For further information on a geographical basis regarding revenues for each of the last three years and long-lived assets for each of the last two years, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Sources of Revenue

Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising, marketing and communications programs around the world. Our revenues are directly dependent upon the advertising, marketing and corporate communications requirements of our existing clients and our ability to win new clients. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated, and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the bases on which we earn commissions and fees vary significantly. As is customary in the industry, our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 90 days.

Revenues for the creation, planning and placement of advertising are determined primarily on a negotiated fee basis and, to a lesser extent, on a commission basis. Fees are usually calculated to reflect hourly rates plus proportional overhead and a mark-up. Many clients include an incentive compensation component in their total compensation package. This provides added revenue based on achieving mutually agreed-upon qualitative or quantitative metrics within specified time periods. Commissions are earned based on services provided and are usually derived from a percentage or fee over the total cost to complete the assignment. Commissions can also be derived when clients pay us the gross rate billed by media and we pay for media at a lower net rate; the difference is the commission that we earn, which we either retain in full or share with the client depending on the nature of the applicable services agreement.

We also generate revenue in negotiated fees from our public relations, sales promotion, event marketing, sports and entertainment marketing, and corporate and brand identity services.

In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients, as is customary in the advertising and marketing industries. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients, and in some instances we agree with the provider that we will only be liable to pay the production and media costs after the client has paid us for the charges. Generally, we act as the client’s agent rather than the primary obligor.

5

Our revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter. This reflects the seasonal spending of our clients, incentives earned at year end on various contracts and project work that is typically completed during the fourth quarter. Fee revenue recognized on a completed-contract basis also contributes to the higher seasonal revenues experienced in the fourth quarter because the majority of our contracts end at December 31.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on our revenue recognition accounting policies.

Clients

Our large and diverse client base includes many of the most recognizable companies and brands throughout the world. Our holding company structure allows us to maintain a diversified client base across and within a full range of industry sectors. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on revenue accounted for approximately 20% of revenue in both 2017 and 2016. Our largest client accounted for approximately 4% of revenue for both 2017 and 2016. Based on revenue for the year ended December 31, 2017, our largest client sectors (in alphabetical order) were auto and transportation, healthcare and technology and telecom. We represent several different clients, brands or divisions within each of these sectors in a number of geographic markets, as well as provide services across multiple advertising and marketing disciplines, in each case through more than one of our agency brands. Representation of a client rarely means that we handle advertising for all brands or product lines of the client in all geographical locations. Any client may transfer its business from one of our agencies to another one of our agencies or to a competing agency, and a client may reduce its marketing budget at any time.

We operate in a highly competitive advertising and marketing communications industry. Our operating companies compete against other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies as well as numerous independent and niche agencies and new forms of market participants to win new clients and maintain existing client relationships.

Regulatory Environment

The advertising and marketing services that our agencies provide are subject to governmental regulation and other action in all of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. While these governmental regulations and other actions can impact the Company’s operations, the specific marketing regulations we may face in a given market do not as a general matter significantly impact the Company’s overall service offerings or the nature in which we provide these services.

Governments, government agencies and industry self-regulatory bodies have adopted laws, regulations and standards, and judicial bodies have issued rulings, that directly or indirectly affect the form and content of advertising, public relations and other marketing activities we produce or conduct on behalf of our clients. These laws, regulations and other actions include content-related rules with respect to specific products and services, restrictions on media scheduling and placement, and labeling or warning requirements with respect to certain products, for example pharmaceuticals, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes and other tobacco products, and food and nutritional supplements. We are also subject to rules related to marketing directed to certain groups, such as children.

Digital marketing services are a dynamic and growing sector of our business. Our service offerings in this area are covered by laws and regulations concerning user privacy, use of personal information, data protection and online tracking technologies. Existing and proposed laws and regulations in this area, such as the General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") coming into effect in the European Union, can impact the development, efficacy and profitability of internet-based and other digital marketing. Limitations on the scheduling, content or delivery of direct marketing activities can likewise impact the activities of our agencies offering those services.

With agencies and clients located in over 100 countries worldwide, we are also subject to laws governing our international operations. These include broad anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and the U.K. Bribery Act (2010), which generally prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to government officials and political figures. Export controls and economic sanctions regimes, such as those maintained by the U.S. government and comparable ones by the member states of the European Union, impose limitations on the Company’s ability to operate in certain geographic regions or to 

6

seek or service certain potential clients. Likewise, our Treasury operations must comply with exchange controls, restrictions on currency repatriation and the control requirements of applicable anti-money-laundering statutes.

Personnel

As of December 31, 2017, we employed approximately 50,200 people, of whom approximately 20,100 were employed in the United States. Because of the service character of the advertising and marketing communications business, the quality of personnel is of crucial importance to our continuing success. We conduct extensive employee training and development throughout our agencies and benchmark our compensation programs against those of our industry for their competitiveness and effectiveness in recruitment and retention. There is keen competition for qualified employees.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com under the "Investor Relations" section, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") at www.sec.gov. The public may also read and copy materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, which is located at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.

Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Interpublic Group Code of Conduct and the charters for each of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Leadership Talent Committee, and Corporate Governance Committee are available, free of charge, on our website at www.interpublic.com in the "Corporate Governance" subsection of the "About" section, or by writing to The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., 909 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022, Attention: Secretary. Information on our website is not part of this report.

7

Executive Officers of IPG

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1Also a Director

There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers.

Mr. Roth became our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in January 2005. Prior to that time, Mr. Roth served as our Chairman of the Board from July 2004 to January 2005. Mr. Roth served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The MONY Group Inc. from February 1994 to June 2004. Mr. Roth has been a member of the Board of Directors of IPG since February 2002. He is also non-executive chairman of the board of Pitney Bowes Inc. and a director of Ryman Hospitality Properties.

Mr. Bonzani was hired as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in April 2012. Prior to joining IPG, Mr. Bonzani worked at IBM for 18 years, holding a number of positions in the legal department, most recently as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Secretary from July 2008 to March 2012.

Mr. Carroll was named Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in April 2006. In 2017, Mr. Carroll assumed additional responsibilities as Chief Financial Officer for the Constituency Management Group (CMG). Mr. Carroll served as Senior Vice President and Controller of McCann Worldgroup from November 2005 to March 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Carroll served as Chief Accounting Officer and Controller at Eyetech Pharmaceuticals and MIM Corporation. Prior to that time, he served as a Financial Vice President at Lucent Technologies, Inc. and began his professional career at PricewaterhouseCoopers from October 1991 to September 2000. Mr. Carroll has been a director of the T. Howard Foundation since 2015.

Ms. Connors was hired in February 2010 as Senior Vice President, Audit and Chief Risk Officer. Prior to joining us, she served as a partner at Deloitte & Touche, LLP from September 2003 to January 2010.

Ms. Johnson was hired as Assistant Treasurer, International in February 2000. In May 2004, Ms. Johnson was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of The Partnership, a division of Interpublic which included Lowe Worldwide and Draft. She was elected Senior Vice President and Treasurer in October 2004 and in February 2013 was elected to Senior Vice President of Finance and Treasurer.

Mr. Krakowsky was hired in January 2002 as Senior Vice President, Director of Corporate Communications. He was elected Executive Vice President, Strategy and Corporate Relations in December 2005 and in February 2011 was elected Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy and Talent Officer. Prior to joining us, he served as Senior Vice President, Communications Director for Young & Rubicam from August 1996 to December 2000.

Mr. Mergenthaler was hired in August 2005 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining us, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Columbia House Company from July 2002 to July 2005. Mr. Mergenthaler served as Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer for Vivendi Universal from December 2001 to March 2002. Prior to that time, Mr. Mergenthaler was an executive at Seagram Company Ltd. from November 1996 to December 2001. Mr. Mergenthaler is a director of Express Scripts, Inc.

8

Item 1A.Risk Factors