PART II

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Management’s Discussion and Analysis includes financial information prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States (U.S.), as well as certain non-GAAP financial measures such as adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share discussed below. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of financial performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes (or includes) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. The non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, financial measures presented in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP measures as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.

The following combined Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is separately filed by Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) and its subsidiaries Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas), Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), Duke Energy Progress, LLC (Duke Energy Progress), Duke Energy Florida, LLC (Duke Energy Florida), Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio) and Duke Energy Indiana, LLC (Duke Energy Indiana). However, none of the registrants make any representation as to information related solely to Duke Energy or the subsidiary registrants of Duke Energy other than itself. Subsequent to Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc. (Piedmont) on October 3, 2016, Piedmont is a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy. The financial information for Duke Energy includes results of Piedmont subsequent to October 3, 2016. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information regarding the acquisition. 

DUKE ENERGY

Duke Energy is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. Duke Energy operates in the U.S. primarily through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Piedmont. When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of the Subsidiary Registrants, which, along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Executive Overview

Acquisition of Piedmont Natural Gas

On October 3, 2016, Duke Energy completed the acquisition of Piedmont, a North Carolina corporation primarily engaged in regulated natural gas distribution to residential, commercial, industrial and power generation customers in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. Piedmont is also invested in joint-venture, energy-related businesses, including regulated interstate natural gas transportation and storage and regulated intrastate natural gas transportation. The acquisition provides a foundation for Duke Energy to establish a broader, long-term strategic natural gas infrastructure platform to complement its existing natural gas pipeline investments and regulated natural gas business in the Midwest. Cost savings, efficiencies and other benefits are expected from combined operations.

Duke Energy acquired all of Piedmont's outstanding common stock for a total cash purchase price of $5.0 billion and assumed Piedmont's existing long-term debt, which had an estimated fair value of approximately $2.0 billion at the time of the acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair value of Piedmont's assets and liabilities on the acquisition date was recorded as goodwill. The transaction resulted in incremental goodwill of approximately $3.4 billion.

Duke Energy financed the transaction with a combination of debt, equity issuances and other cash sources. Financings to fund the transaction included $3.75 billion of long-term debt issued in August 2016, $750 million borrowed under a short-term loan facility (Term Loan) in September 2016, as well as the issuance of 10.6 million shares of common stock in October 2016. The share issuance resulted in net cash proceeds of approximately $723 million. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt and Credit Facilities," for additional information related to the debt issuance and Note 18, "Common Stock," for additional information related to the equity issuance.

Duke Energy recorded pretax non-recurring transaction and integration costs associated with the acquisition of $439 million in 2016, including interest expense of $234 million related to the acquisition financing. The interest expense primarily relates to losses on forward-starting interest rate swaps. The remaining charges include commitments made in conjunction with the transaction, such as charitable contributions and a one-time bill credit to Piedmont customers, as well as professional fees and severance. Duke Energy also expects to incur system integration and other acquisition-related transition costs, primarily through 2018, that are necessary to achieve certain anticipated cost savings, efficiencies and other benefits. 

See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information regarding the transaction.

Sale of International Energy

In February 2016, Duke Energy announced it had initiated a process to divest its Latin American generation businesses and, in October 2016, reached agreements to sell the businesses in two separate transactions for a combined enterprise value of $2.4 billion. Both deals closed ahead of schedule in December 2016. Duke Energy sold its Brazilian business to China Three Gorges for approximately $1.2 billion, including the assumption of debt, and its remaining Central and South American businesses to I Squared Capital in a deal also valued at approximately $1.2 billion. The transactions generated cash proceeds of $1.9 billion, excluding transaction costs, which were primarily used to reduce Duke Energy holding company debt. Existing favorable tax attributes result in no immediate U.S. federal-level cash tax impacts.

As a result of the transactions, the International Energy Disposal Group was classified as held for sale and as discontinued operations in the fourth quarter of 2016.

38

PART II

In conjunction with the advancement of marketing efforts, in the second quarter of 2016 Duke Energy performed recoverability tests of the asset groups of the International Disposal Group, and as a result recorded an after-tax impairment charge of $145 million related to certain assets in Central America. In the fourth quarter of 2016, Duke Energy recorded an after-tax loss on disposal of $640 million, which includes the recognition of cumulative foreign currency translation losses of $620 million. Both charges are included within Loss from Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2016. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions" for additional information.

Financial Results

(a)See Results of Operations below for Duke Energy’s definition of adjusted earnings and adjusted earnings per share as well as a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to net income attributable to Duke Energy and net income attributable to Duke Energy per diluted share.

2016 GAAP reported earnings were impacted by charges related to the International Energy sale described above, which were recorded to discontinued operations. See “Results of Operations” below for a detailed discussion of the consolidated results of operations, as well as a detailed discussion of financial results for each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.

2016 Areas of Focus and Accomplishments

Duke Energy advanced a number of important strategic initiatives to transform its energy future with a focus on customers, employees, operations and growth. The company has responded to an environment of changing customer demands, investing in electric and gas infrastructure that customers value and that provide an opportunity for sustainable growth. 

Portfolio Transition. With the acquisition of Piedmont and the sale of International Energy, Duke Energy completed a multi-year portfolio transition. The Piedmont acquisition reflects the growing importance of natural gas to the future of the energy infrastructure within the company's service territory and throughout the U.S., and establishes a strategic platform for future growth in natural gas infrastructure. Duke Energy's exit of the Latin American market results in a portfolio of domestic electric and gas infrastructure businesses with a lower risk profile and enhances the ability to generate more consistent earnings and cash flows over time. 

Operational Excellence. Duke Energy continues to focus on the safe and efficient operation of its generation fleet. During the year Duke Energy's safety performance metrics led the utilities industry, and its regulated fuel costs averaged $2.22/kwh, which is the lowest in the past several years. Additionally, the nuclear fleet increased its capacity factor for a fourth consecutive year to approximately 96 percent, with several units setting all-time generation records.

Storm Response and System Restoration. Duke Energy’s service territories experienced numerous storms during 2016, including Winter Storm Jonas and Hurricane Matthew. During Hurricane Matthew, over 1.7 million customers in Florida and the Carolinas were without power. In the Carolinas, 1.4 million outages were restored in record time, helping communities start the rebuilding process. Power was restored to customers through the commitment and resolve of employees and contractors. 

Customer Satisfaction. Higher J.D. Power customer satisfaction scores in 2016 reflect progress in the Company's efforts to improve customer satisfaction. In Florida, scores improved more than 30 points. The work to improve customer satisfaction will continue, but all jurisdictions remain on track to make steady gains in the years ahead as Duke Energy continues to transform the customer experience.

Constructive Regulatory Outcomes. Through constructive stakeholder engagement, Duke Energy reached settlements for the Edwardsport IGCC facility in Indiana and Duke Energy Progress South Carolina rate case. These settlements have been approved by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC) and Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC), respectively. Duke Energy will also save its Florida customers more than $800 million over approximately 20 years through the successful securitization financing of its regulatory asset related to Crystal River 3.

39

PART II

Coal Ash Management. Duke Energy continued to make significant progress on the safe storage of coal ash in 2016. Closure activities are underway at five sites and comprehensive closure plans for all Duke Energy coal ash sites were developed and disclosed publicly during 2016, consistent with Federal Coal Combustion Residuals (CCR) requirements. In May 2016, Duke Energy received preliminary risk rankings for its coal ash sites in North Carolina from the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality (NCDEQ), and in July 2016 new legislation was passed that provided clarity on the risk ranking framework. The legislation also required the completion of dam improvement projects and the installation of water lines for residents within a half mile of coal ash sites in the state. Work was completed on all required deadlines under the new legislation.

Cost Management and Efficiencies. Duke Energy has a demonstrated track record of driving efficiencies and productivity, including merger integration. These efficiencies will help in Duke Energy's objective to keep overall customer rates below the national average, while moderating customer bill increases over time. In June 2016, Duke Energy achieved the $687 million of guaranteed savings for customers in the Carolinas from the 2012 merger with Progress Energy, a full year ahead of its original commitment.

Growth in the Dividend. In 2016, Duke Energy continued to grow the dividend payment to shareholders by approximately 4 percent. 2016 represented the 90th consecutive year Duke Energy paid a cash dividend on its common stock.

Duke Energy Objectives – 2017 and Beyond

Duke Energy will continue to deliver exceptional value to customers, be an integral part of the communities in which it does business, and provide attractive returns to investors. Duke Energy is committed to lead the way to cleaner, smarter energy solutions that customers value through a strategy focused on:

•Transformation of the customer experience to meet changing customer expectations through enhanced convenience, control and choice in energy supply and usage.

•Modernization of the electric grid, including storm hardening, to ensure the system is better prepared for severe weather and to improve the system's reliability and flexibility, as well as to provide better information and services for customers.

•Generation of cleaner energy through an increased amount of natural gas, renewables generation and the continued safe and reliable operation of nuclear plants.

•Expansion of natural gas infrastructure, from midstream gas pipelines to local distribution systems.

•Operational excellence through engagement with employees and being an industry leader in safety performance and efficient operations. 

•Stakeholder engagement to ensure the regulatory rules in the states in which Duke Energy operates benefit customers and allow Duke Energy to recover its significant investments in a timely manner.

Primary objectives toward the implementation of this strategy include:

Growth Initiatives. Growth in the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure business is expected to be supported by the investment of significant capital in the electric transmission and distribution grid, and in cleaner, more efficient generation. Duke Energy expects to invest approximately $30 billion in Electric Utilities and Infrastructure growth projects over the next five years, continuing its efforts to generate cleaner energy. Duke Energy intends to work constructively with regulators to evaluate the current construct and seek modernized recovery solutions, such as riders, rate decoupling and multiyear rate plans, that benefit both customers and shareholders.

Investment projects at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure currently underway that will support growth initiatives include:

•Duke Energy Indiana's $1.4 billion grid modernization plan, which was approved by the IURC in 2016, is aimed at improving reliability, including fewer outages and quicker restoration. The plan allows for recovery of Duke Energy's investment through a rider. As part of the settlement, Duke Energy also received approval to install AMI meters, deferring the costs for future recovery in a rate case. 

•Significant investments in natural gas-fired combined cycle plants, including completing the $1.5 billion Citrus Country plant in Florida, the $600 million Lee facility in South Carolina and the $1 billion investment in the Western Carolinas Modernization Project. These investments will allow Duke Energy to replace older, less efficient coal units early.

•Duke Energy expects to continue to advance other cleaner energy sources within its regulated electric jurisdictions, including hydro, wind, solar and combined heat-and-power projects, increasing the flexibility of the system and allowing Duke Energy to continue lowering carbon emissions.

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure will also invest significantly in modernizing the electric grid to provide greater flexibility, better reliability and power quality, as well as more valuable products and services for its customers.

These significant investments will result in the need to file rate cases with regulators to update customer rates. Duke Energy will also focus on modernizing the regulatory constructs in its jurisdictions to minimize rate impacts to customers and recover costs in a more timely manner.

Duke Energy expects to invest around $6 billion in its Gas Utilities and Infrastructure business over the next five years. Growth in Gas Utilities and Infrastructure will be focused on the following:

•With the acquisition of Piedmont, Duke Energy now operates gas distribution businesses across five states. The continued integration of Piedmont, as well as additional investments in the gas Local Distribution Company (LDC) system, will help maintain system integrity and expand gas distribution to new customers.

•Duke Energy will continue to grow its midstream pipeline business, underpinned by investments in the Atlantic Coast Pipeline, Sabal Trail and Constitution pipeline projects. These highly-contracted pipelines will bring much needed, low-cost gas supplies to the eastern U.S., spurring economic growth and helping Duke Energy to grow its customer base in the Southeast.

40

PART II

For Commercial Renewables, Duke Energy will continue to pursue long-term, highly-contracted wind and solar projects that meet its return criteria.

Cost Management. Duke Energy has a demonstrated track record of driving efficiencies and productivity into the business and continues to identify sustainable cost savings as an essential element in response to a transforming industry.

Execute on Coal Ash Management Strategy. Duke Energy will continue the company's compliance strategy with the North Carolina Coal Ash Management Act of 2014 (Coal Ash Act) and Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Duke Energy will update ash management plans to comply with the appropriate regulations and expand excavation and other compliance work at additional sites once plans and permits are approved.

Results of Operations

Non-GAAP Measures

Management evaluates financial performance in part based on non-GAAP financial measures, including adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS. These items represent income from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy, adjusted for the dollar and per-share impact of special items. As discussed below, special items include certain charges and credits which management believes are not indicative of Duke Energy's ongoing performance. Management believes the presentation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them with an additional relevant comparison of Duke Energy’s performance across periods. 

Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for planning and forecasting, and for reporting financial results to the Duke Energy Board of Directors (Board of Directors), employees, stockholders, analysts and investors. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses. The most directly comparable GAAP measures for adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS are Net Income Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation (GAAP Reported Earnings) and Diluted EPS Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common stockholders (GAAP Reported EPS). 

Special items included in the periods presented include the following items which management believes do not reflect ongoing costs: 

•Costs to Achieve Mergers represents charges that result from potential or completed strategic acquisitions. 

•Cost Savings Initiatives represents severance charges related to company-wide initiatives to standardize processes and systems, leverage technology and workforce optimization. 

•Commercial Renewables Impairment and Asset Impairment represent other-than-temporary impairments.

•Edwardsport Settlement, Ash Basin Settlement and Penalties, and Coal Ash Plea Agreements Reserve represent charges related to Plea Agreements and settlement agreements with regulators and other governmental entities.

Adjusted earnings also include the operating results of the nonregulated Midwest generation business and Duke Energy Retail Sales (collectively, the Midwest Generation Disposal Group) and the International Disposal Group, which have been classified as discontinued operations. Management believes inclusion of the operating results of the Disposal Groups within adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS results in a better reflection of Duke Energy's financial performance during the period.

Duke Energy’s adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of another company because other companies may not calculate the measures in the same manner.

Reconciliation of GAAP Reported Amounts to Adjusted Amounts

The following table presents a reconciliation of adjusted earnings and adjusted diluted EPS to the most directly comparable GAAP measures.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

41

PART II

(a)For 2016, includes a loss on sale of the International Disposal Group. Represents the GAAP reported Loss from Discontinued Operations, less the International Disposal Group operating results, which are included in adjusted earnings.

(b)For 2015, includes the impact of a litigation reserve related to the Midwest Generation Disposal Group. Represents (i) GAAP reported Income from Discontinued Operations, less the International Disposal Group operating results and Midwest Generation Disposal Group operating results, which are included in adjusted earnings, and (ii) a state tax charge resulting from the completion of the sale of the Midwest Generation Disposal Group but not reported as discontinued operations.

(c)For 2014, includes an impairment of the Midwest Generation Disposal Group and a tax charge related to the repatriation of foreign earnings of the International Disposal Group. Represents the GAAP reported Loss from Discontinued Operations, less the International Disposal Group operating results and Midwest Generation Disposal Group operating results, which are included in adjusted earnings.

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as compared to 2015

Duke Energy’s full-year 2016 GAAP Reported EPS was $3.11 compared to $4.05 for full-year 2015. GAAP Reported EPS was lower primarily due to a $0.93 loss on sale of the International business, which has been presented as discontinued operations. Duke Energy also recorded $0.40 of after-tax costs to achieve the Piedmont merger in 2016, including losses on interest rate swaps related to the acquisition financing. See Note 2, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information on the Piedmont and International transactions.

As discussed, management also evaluates financial performance based on adjusted earnings. Duke Energy’s full-year 2016 adjusted diluted EPS was $4.69 compared to $4.54 for full-year 2015. The variance in adjusted diluted EPS was primarily due to:

•More favorable weather in 2016 compared to 2015;

•Increased retail revenues from pricing and riders, including energy efficiency programs;

•Strong operations and maintenance cost control at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure; and

•Piedmont’s earnings contribution subsequent to the acquisition in October 2016.

Partially offset by:

•Higher storm costs at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure due to significant 2016 storms;

•Higher interest expense related to additional debt outstanding; and

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense at Electric Utilities and Infrastructure primarily due to higher depreciable base.

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as compared to 2014

Duke Energy’s full-year 2015 GAAP Reported EPS was $4.05 compared to $2.66 for full-year 2014. GAAP Reported EPS in 2015 was higher primarily due to a $0.92 loss per share from discontinued operations in 2014, which included an impairment of the Midwest Generation Disposal Group and a tax charge on repatriated foreign earnings related to the International Disposal Group.

As discussed, management also evaluates financial performance based on adjusted earnings. Duke Energy’s full-year 2015 adjusted diluted EPS was $4.54 compared to $4.55 for full-year 2014. The variance in adjusted diluted EPS was primarily due to:

•Lower results in Latin America primarily due to lower demand, unfavorable hydrology in Brazil, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, a tax benefit in 2014 related to the reorganization of Chilean operations and lower dispatch in Central America due to increased competition; 

•Higher operations and maintenance expense primarily due to a 2014 benefit associated with the adoption of nuclear outage levelization, amounts related to additional ownership interest in assets acquired from North Carolina Eastern Municipal Power Agency (NCEMPA), and higher planned fossil generation outage costs, partially offset by lower storm restoration costs;

•Higher depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to higher depreciable base; and

•Lower equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates due to lower margins at National Methanol Company (NMC), largely driven by lower MTBE prices, partially offset by lower butane costs.

Partially offset by:

•Increased retail pricing primarily due to rate riders in most jurisdictions, including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, equity returns related to additional ownership interest in assets acquired from NCEMPA and higher base rates;

•Increased wholesale net margins largely due to increases in contracted amounts and prices and a new wholesale contract with NCEMPA;

•Retail sales growth of 0.6 percent;

•Higher results at the nonregulated Midwest generation business prior to its sale on April 2, 2015, due to higher PJM Interconnection LLC (PJM) capacity revenues and increased generation margins; and

•Reduction in shares outstanding due to the Duke Energy accelerated stock repurchase (only impacts per share amounts).

42

PART II

Segment Results

The remaining information presented in this discussion of results of operations is on a GAAP basis. Management evaluates segment performance based on segment income. Segment income is defined as income from continuing operations net of income attributable to noncontrolling interests. Segment income includes intercompany revenues and expenses that are eliminated in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Due to the Piedmont acquisition and the sale of International Energy in the fourth quarter of 2016, Duke Energy's segment structure has been realigned to include the following segments: Electric Utilities and Infrastructure, Gas Utilities and Infrastructure and Commercial Renewables. The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. Prior period information has been recast to conform to the current segment structure. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Disposition," for further information on the Piedmont acquisition and International Energy sale and Note 3, “Business Segments,” for additional information on Duke Energy’s segment structure.

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's higher earnings were primarily due to increased pricing and rider revenues, favorable weather, a prior year impairment charge associated with the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlement and an increase in wholesale power margins. These impacts were partially offset by increased depreciation and amortization expense, higher interest expense and higher operations and maintenance expense. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $768 million decrease in fuel revenues driven by lower fuel prices included in rates.

Partially offset by:

•a $414 million increase in rider revenues including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, the additional ownership interest in generating assets acquired from NCEMPA in the third quarter of 2015 and increased revenues related to Duke Energy Indiana’s clean coal equipment, and increased retail electric pricing primarily due to the expiration of the North Carolina cost of removal decrement rider; 

•a $101 million increase in retail sales, net of fuel revenue, due to favorable weather compared to the prior year; and

•a $76 million increase in wholesale power revenues primarily due to additional volumes and capacity charges for customers served under long-term contracts, including the NCEMPA wholesale contract.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $713 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power and natural gas purchases for resale) primarily due to lower natural gas and coal prices, and lower volumes of coal and oil, partially offset by higher volumes of natural gas; and

•an $88 million pretax impairment charge in the prior year related to the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlement.

43

PART II

Partially offset by:

•a $162 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service, including the additional ownership interest in generating assets acquired from NCEMPA, as well as the expiration of the North Carolina cost of removal decrement rider; and

•a $154 million increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to higher environmental and operational costs that are recoverable in rates, increased employee benefit costs, and higher storm restoration costs, partially offset by lower costs due to effective cost control efforts.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily driven by higher AFUDC equity.

Interest Expense. The variance was due to higher debt outstanding in the current year.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 35.5 percent and 36.2 percent, respectively.

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014 

Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s higher earnings were primarily due to an increase in wholesale power margins, growth in retail sales, and increased retail pricing primarily due to rate riders in most jurisdictions, including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, and higher base rates primarily due to phasing of 2013 rate cases. These drivers were partially offset by an impairment charge associated with the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlement, higher operations and maintenance expense and increased depreciation and amortization expense. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $296 million decrease in fuel revenues due to lower overall fuel prices included in rates; and

•a $131 million decrease in revenues to recover gross receipts taxes due to the North Carolina Tax Simplification and Rate Reduction Act, which terminated the collection of the North Carolina gross receipts tax effective July 1, 2014 (offset in Operating Expenses).

Partially offset by:

•a $175 million increase in wholesale power revenues, primarily due to additional volumes and capacity charges for customers served under long-term contracts, including the NCEMPA wholesale contract; and

•an $81 million increase from retail sales growth (net of fuel revenue) due to increased demand.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $378 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to lower natural gas and coal prices and lower volumes of coal and oil, partially offset by higher volumes of natural gas; and

•a $131 million decrease in property and other taxes primarily due to the termination of the collection of the North Carolina gross receipts tax (offset in Operating Revenues) and the partial reversal of a sales tax reserve recorded in 2014 at Duke Energy Indiana, partially offset by higher property taxes across multiple jurisdictions.

Partially offset by:

•an $88 million pretax impairment charge related to the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlement. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information;

•a $49 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service; and

•a $47 million increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to planned nuclear spending and the 2014 benefit of the adoption of nuclear outage levelization, higher costs for customer programs and distribution projects, and higher maintenance costs at fossil generation stations primarily due to increased ownership interest in assets acquired from NCEMPA, partially offset by a 2014 litigation reserve related to the Dan River coal ash spill (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information) and lower storm restoration costs.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 36.2 percent and 36.8 percent, respectively. 

Matters Impacting Future Electric Utilities and Infrastructure Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

44

PART II

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, may be reassessed in the future as low risk pursuant to legislation signed by the former North Carolina governor on July 14, 2016. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's estimated asset retirement obligations (AROs) related to the closure of North Carolina ash impoundments are based upon the mandated closure method or a probability weighting of potential closure methods for the impoundments that may be reassessed to low risk. As the final risk ranking classifications in North Carolina are delineated, final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses and the closure method scope and remedial methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for additional information. 

Duke Energy is a party to multiple lawsuits and could be subject to fines and other penalties related to the Dan River coal ash release and operations at other North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits and potential fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information. 

In the fourth quarter of 2016, Hurricane Matthew caused historic flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages within the Duke Energy Progress service territory. Duke Energy Progress filed a petition with the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) requesting an accounting order to defer approximately $140 million of incremental operation and maintenance and capital costs incurred in response to Hurricane Matthew and other significant 2016 storms. The NCUC has not ruled on the petition. A final order from the NCUC that disallows the deferral and future recovery of all or a significant portion of the incremental storm restoration costs incurred could result in an adverse impact on Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress intend to file rate cases in North Carolina in 2017 to recover costs of complying with CCR regulations and the Coal Ash Act, as well as costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Duke Energy Ohio has notified the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO) of its intent to file an electric distribution rate case in Ohio to address recovery of electric distribution system capital investments and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's earnings could be adversely impacted if these rate cases are delayed or denied by the NCUC or PUCO.

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Only includes throughput subsequent to Duke Energy's acquisition of Piedmont on October 3, 2016.

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's higher results were primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont's earnings subsequent to the merger on October 3, 2016 and higher equity earnings from pipeline investments. Piedmont's earnings included in Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's results were $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2016.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by a $398 million increase in operating revenues due to the inclusion of Piedmont operating revenues beginning in October 2016, partially offset by a $38 million decrease in fuel revenues driven by lower natural gas prices and decreased sales volumes for Midwest operations.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by a $276 million increase in operating expenses due to the inclusion of Piedmont operating expenses beginning in October 2016, partially offset by a $38 million decrease in the cost of natural gas, primarily due to decreased volumes and lower natural gas prices for Midwest operations.

Other Income and Expenses. The increase was driven primarily by higher equity earnings from pipeline investments.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to the inclusion of Piedmont interest expenses beginning in October 2016.

45

PART II

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 37.2 percent and 37.6 percent, respectively.

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014 

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's lower earnings were primarily due to unfavorable weather.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $43 million decrease in fuel revenues primarily driven by lower natural gas prices and decreased sales volumes; and

•a $7 million decrease in sales to retail customers due to unfavorable weather.

Partially offset by:

•a $19 increase in regulated natural gas rider revenues primarily due to rate increases.

Operating Expenses. The variance is driven primarily by: 

•a $43 million decrease in the cost of natural gas, primarily due to decreased volumes and lower natural gas prices.

Partially offset by:

•a $16 million increase due to a favorable gas excise tax settlement in June 2014; and

•an $8 million increase due to amortization of the manufactured gas plant (MGP) regulatory asset.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to lower pretax income, partially offset by an increase in effective tax rate. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 37.6 percent and 36.0 percent, respectively.

Matters Impacting Future Gas Utilities and Infrastructure Results

Gas Utilities and Infrastructure has a 24 percent ownership interest in Constitution Pipeline Company, LLC (Constitution), a natural gas pipeline project slated to transport natural gas supplies to major northeastern markets. On April 22, 2016, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation denied Constitution’s application for a necessary water quality certification for the New York portion of the Constitution pipeline. Constitution has stopped construction and discontinued capitalization of future development costs until the project's uncertainty is resolved. To the extent the legal and regulatory proceedings have unfavorable outcomes, or if Constitution concludes that the project is not viable or does not go forward, an impairment charge of up to the recorded investment in the project, net of any cash and working capital returned, may be recorded. With the project on hold, funding of project costs has ceased until resolution of legal actions. Duke Energy is contractually obligated to provide funding of required operating costs, including the ownership percentage of legal expenses to obtain the necessary permitting for the project and project costs incurred prior to the denial of the water permit. If the legal actions result in an outcome where the project is abandoned, Constitution is obligated under various contracts to pay breakage fees that Gas Utilities and Infrastructure would be obligated to fund up to the ownership percentage, or potentially up to $10 million. 

In 2013, the PUCO issued an order (PUCO order) approving Duke Energy Ohio’s recovery of costs incurred between 2008 and 2012 for environmental investigation and remediation of two former MGP sites. At December 31, 2016, Duke Energy Ohio had recorded in Regulatory assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet approximately $99 million of estimated MGP remediation costs not yet recovered through the MGP rider mechanism. Intervenors have appealed to the Ohio Supreme Court the PUCO order authorizing recovery of these amounts. That appeal remains pending. Duke Energy Ohio cannot predict the outcome of the appeal before the Ohio Supreme Court or future action by the PUCO. If Duke Energy Ohio is not able to recover these remediation costs in rates, the costs could have an adverse impact on Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

46

PART II

Commercial Renewables

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015

Commercial Renewables' lower earnings were primarily due to an impairment charge related to certain equity method investments in wind projects, partially offset by new wind and solar generation placed in service and improved wind production. The following is a detailed discussion of variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $135 million increase due to growth of REC Solar, a California-based provider of solar installations acquired by Duke Energy in 2015; and

•a $66 million increase from new wind and solar generation placed in service and improved wind production.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $130 million increase in operating expenses due to growth of REC Solar; and

•a $36 million increase in operating expenses due to new wind and solar generation placed in service.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was due to a $71 million pretax impairment charge related to certain equity method investments in wind projects. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates," for additional information.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and the impact of production tax credits (PTCs) for the renewables portfolio.

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014 

Commercial Renewables' results were impacted by new solar and wind generation placed in service, partially offset by unfavorable wind patterns. The following is a detailed discussion of variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $41 million increase due to the acquisition of REC Solar; and

•a $27 million increase from new solar and wind generation placed in service.

Partially offset by:

•an $18 million decrease due to lower wind production.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $48 million increase in operating expenses due to the acquisition of REC Solar; and

•a $33 million increase in operating expenses due to new wind and solar generation placed in service.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily due to lower equity earnings due to lower wind production.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in capitalized interest in 2015 from higher spending on wind and solar projects.

47

PART II

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax income and the impact of PTCs.

Matters Impacting Future Commercial Renewables Results

Changes or variability in assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the Commercial Renewables reporting units for goodwill testing purposes including but not limited to, legislative actions related to tax credit extensions, long-term growth rates and discount rates, could significantly impact the estimated fair value of the Commercial Renewables reporting units. In the event of a significant decline in the estimated fair value of the Commercial Renewables reporting units, goodwill impairment charges could be recorded. The carrying value of goodwill within Commercial Renewables was approximately $122 million at December 31, 2016.

Persistently low market pricing for wind resources, primarily in the Energy Reliability Council of Texas West market, and the future expiration of tax incentives including Investment Tax Credits (ITCs) and PTCs could result in adverse impacts to the future results of Commercial Renewables.

Other

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Other’s higher net expense was driven by higher costs related to the Piedmont acquisition, higher charitable donations and higher interest expense related to the Piedmont acquisition financing. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The decrease was primarily due to customer credits recorded in the fourth quarter related to Piedmont merger commitments. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Operating Expenses. The increase was primarily due to transaction and integration costs associated with the Piedmont acquisition and increased donations to the Duke Energy Foundation, partially offset by a decrease in severance accruals. The Duke Energy Foundation is a nonprofit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected nonprofits and government subdivisions. 

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily due to lower earnings from NMC, which was recast to Other following the sale of the International disposal group (See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Business Segments"), partially offset by higher returns on investments that support employee benefit obligations.

Interest Expense. The increase was primarily due to Piedmont acquisition financing, including bridge facility costs and losses on forward-starting interest rate swaps. For additional information see Notes 2 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions" and "Derivatives and Hedging," respectively.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax losses, partially offset by a decrease in the effective tax rate. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 41.2 percent and 47.5 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the benefit from legal entity restructuring recorded in 2015.

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014 

Other’s lower net expense was driven by an impairment charge in 2014 related to the Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (OVEC) and lower Progress Energy merger costs, partially offset by lower earnings from NMC. The following is a detailed discussion of the variance drivers by line item.

Operating Revenues. The increase was primarily due to higher revenues from OVEC.

Operating Expenses. The decrease was primarily due to an impairment charge in 2014 related to OVEC, lower charges related to the Progress Energy merger, and higher prior year captive insurance losses, partially offset by severance accruals and higher North Carolina franchise taxes. 

Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net. The variance was primarily due to a gain on sale of telecommunication leases.

48

PART II

Other Income and Expenses, net. The variance was primarily due to lower earnings from NMC, lower returns on investments that support employee benefit obligations and a gain on an investment sale in 2014, partially offset by interest income from the resolution of an income tax matter.

Income Tax Benefit. The variance was primarily due to a decrease in pretax losses. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were 47.5 percent and 49.0 percent, respectively.

Matters Impacting Future Other Results

Included in Other is Duke Energy Ohio's 9 percent ownership interest in OVEC, which owns 2,256 MW of coal fired generation capacity. As a counterparty to an inter-company power agreement (ICPA), Duke Energy Ohio has a contractual arrangement to receive entitlements to capacity and energy from OVEC’s power plants through June 2040 commensurate with its power participation ratio, which is equivalent to Duke Energy Ohio's ownership interest. Costs, including fuel, operating expenses, fixed costs, debt amortization, and interest expense, are allocated to counterparties to the ICPA, including Duke Energy Ohio, based on their power participation ratio. The value of the ICPA is subject to variability due to fluctuations in power prices and changes in OVEC’s costs of business. Deterioration in the credit quality or bankruptcy of one or more parties to the ICPA could increase the costs of OVEC. In addition, certain proposed environmental rulemaking costs could result in future increased cost allocations. 

The retired Beckjord generating station (Beckjord), a nonregulated facility retired during 2014, is not subject to the EPA rule related to the disposal of CCR from electric utilities. However, if costs are incurred as a result of environmental regulations or to mitigate risk associated with on-site storage of coal ash, the costs could have an adverse impact on Other's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

Earnings from an equity method investment in NMC reflect sales of methanol and MTBE, which generate margins that are directionally correlated with Brent crude oil prices. The recent decline in crude oil prices have reduced the earnings realized from NMC. Further weakness in the market price of Brent crude oil and related commodities may result in a further decline in earnings. Duke Energy's economic ownership interest will decrease from 25 percent to 17.5 percent upon successful startup of NMC's polyacetal production facility, which is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2017.

U.S. federal tax reform has become an important priority of the current Congress and Administration. Any substantial revision to the U.S. tax code, including a loss of the ability to deduct interest expense, could adversely impact Duke Energy's future earnings, cash flows or financial position. 

(LOSS) INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF TAX

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015

The variance was primarily driven by the loss on the disposal of Duke Energy's Latin American generation business and an impairment charge related to certain assets in Central America, partially offset by a tax benefit related to historic unremitted foreign earnings and immaterial out of period tax adjustments unrelated to the Disposal Groups. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Year Ended December 31, 2015 as Compared to 2014

The variance was primarily due to the 2014 impairment of the Midwest Generation Disposal Group and a 2014 tax charge related to historic unremitted foreign earnings, partially offset by lower operating results of the International Disposal Group in 2015 compared to 2014. Operating results for the International Disposal Group in 2015 were impacted by lower demand, unfavorable hydrology in Brazil, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, the absence of a 2014 tax benefit related to the reorganization of Chilean operations and lower dispatch in Central America due to increased competition.

DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Carolinas is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

49

PART II

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Carolinas. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $91 million increase in retail pricing and rider revenues, including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs and the expiration of the North Carolina cost of removal decrement rider;

•a $58 million increase in retail sales, net of fuel revenues, to retail customers due to more favorable weather compared to the prior year; and

•a $45 million increase in wholesale power revenues, net of sharing, primarily due to additional demand from customers served under long-term contracts.

Partially offset by:

•a $106 million decrease in fuel revenues, driven primarily by lower fuel prices included in electric retail and wholesale rates.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•an $84 million decrease in fuel expense (including purchased power) primarily due to lower natural gas and coal prices, as well as changes in generation mix.

Partially offset by:

•a $41 million increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to costs associated with merger commitments related to the Piedmont acquisition in 2016, increased employee benefit costs, higher energy efficiency program costs, and higher storm restoration costs, partially offset by lower severance expenses, lower expenses at generating plants, lower costs associated with the Progress Energy merger and decreased corporate costs; 

•a $24 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to additional plant in service; and

•a $7 million increase in property and other taxes primarily due to higher property taxes.

Interest Expense. The variance was primarily due to higher debt outstanding in the current year.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 35.2 percent and 36.7 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to audit settlements and the impact of favorable tax return true-ups. 

50

PART II

Matters Impacting Future Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Carolinas' financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, may be reassessed in the future as low risk pursuant to legislation signed by the former North Carolina governor on July 14, 2016. Duke Energy Carolinas' estimated AROs related to the closure of North Carolina ash impoundments are based upon the mandated closure method or a probability weighting of potential closure methods for the impoundments that may be reassessed to low risk. As the final risk ranking classifications in North Carolina are delineated, final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Duke Energy Carolinas' financial position. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for additional information. 

Duke Energy Carolinas is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to the Dan River coal ash release and operations at other North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Carolinas’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

Duke Energy Carolinas intends to file a rate case in North Carolina in 2017 to recover costs of complying with CCR regulations and the Coal Ash Act, as well as costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Duke Energy Carolinas' earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate case is delayed or denied by the NCUC.

51

PART II

PROGRESS ENERGY

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Progress Energy is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $638 million decrease in fuel revenues due to lower fuel prices and changes in generation mix, partially offset by increased capacity rates to retail customers at Duke Energy Florida; and

•a $17 million decrease in retail sales, net of fuel revenue, due to unfavorable weather compared to the prior year at Duke Energy Florida.

Partially offset by:

•a $188 million increase in rider revenues, including increased revenues related to energy efficiency programs, the additional ownership interest in certain generating assets acquired from NCEMPA in the third quarter of 2015, nuclear asset securitization revenues beginning in 2016, and an increase in energy conservation and environmental cost recovery clause revenues, partially offset by lower nuclear cost recovery clause (NCRC) rider revenues due to suspending recovery for the Levy nuclear project in 2015; and

•a $34 million increase in wholesale power revenues primarily due to the NCEMPA contract, partially offset by lower peak demand at Duke Energy Progress and contracts that expired in the prior year at Duke Energy Florida.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $581 million decrease in fuel expense primarily due to lower natural gas prices, changes in generation mix, lower deferred fuel expense, and lower generation costs, partially offset by increased purchased power.

Partially offset by:

•a $96 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service, including the additional ownership interest in generation assets acquired from NCEMPA; and

•an $84 million increase in operations and maintenance expense due to costs associated with merger commitments related to the Piedmont acquisition in 2016, higher employee benefit costs, and higher storm restoration costs at Duke Energy Progress, partially offset by lower nuclear costs and severance costs at Duke Energy Progress and lower costs related to fleet maintenance work at Duke Energy Florida.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance is due to higher AFUDC equity return on certain projects at Duke Energy Florida.

52

PART II

Interest Expense. The variance is due to higher debt outstanding, partially offset by higher AFUDC debt return on certain projects at Duke Energy Florida.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a higher effective tax rate, partially offset by lower pretax income. The effective tax rate for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 33.7 percent and 32.9 percent, respectively. 

Matters Impacting Future Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, may be reassessed in the future as low risk pursuant to legislation signed by the former North Carolina governor on July 14, 2016. Duke Energy Progress' estimated AROs related to the closure of North Carolina ash impoundments are based upon the mandated closure method or a probability weighting of potential closure methods for the impoundments that may be reassessed to low risk. As the final risk ranking classifications in North Carolina are delineated, final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Duke Energy Progress' financial position. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for additional information.

Duke Energy Progress is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Progress Energy’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

In the fourth quarter of 2016, Hurricane Matthew caused historic flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages within the Duke Energy Progress service territory. Duke Energy Progress filed a petition with the NCUC requesting an accounting order to defer approximately $140 million of incremental operation and maintenance and capital costs incurred in response to Hurricane Matthew and other significant 2016 storms. The NCUC has not ruled on the petition. A final order from the NCUC that disallows the deferral and future recovery of all or a significant portion of the incremental storm restoration costs incurred could result in an adverse impact on Progress Energy's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Duke Energy Progress intends to file a rate case in North Carolina in 2017 to recover costs of complying with CCR regulations and the Coal Ash Act, as well as costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Progress Energy's earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate case is delayed or denied by the NCUC.

53

PART II

DUKE ENERGY PROGRESS

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Progress is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Progress. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $206 million decrease in fuel revenues driven by lower natural gas prices and changes in generation mix;

•a $17 million decrease in intercompany Joint Dispatch Agreement (JDA) revenues; and 

•a $5 million decrease in transmission revenues due to a settlement with customers that reduced the rate of return on equity. 

Partially offset by:

•a $150 million increase in rider revenues due to the purchase of NCEMPA’s ownership interest in certain generating assets and energy efficiency programs; and 

•a $65 million increase in wholesale power revenues primarily due to the NCEMPA contract effective August 1, 2015, partially offset by lower peak demand.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $199 million decrease in fuel expense primarily due to lower natural gas prices and changes in generation mix.

54

PART II

Partially offset by:

•a $61 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service, including the additional ownership interest in generating assets acquired from NCEMPA;

•a $51 million increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to a favorable pension expense adjustment recorded in 2015, costs associated with merger commitments related to the Piedmont acquisition in 2016, higher storm restoration costs, and higher employee benefit costs, partially offset by lower nuclear costs (net of nuclear levelization) due to fewer outages in 2016 and lower severance costs; and

•a $15 million increase in property and other taxes due to a 2015 North Carolina Franchise Tax refund and increases in current year property taxes in North Carolina and South Carolina.

Interest Expense. The variance was due to higher debt outstanding.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 33.4 percent and 34.2 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the impact of favorable tax return true-ups and a rate change in North Carolina.

Matters Impacting Future Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash impoundments could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued proposed risk classifications for all coal ash surface impoundments in North Carolina. All ash impoundments not previously designated as high priority by the Coal Ash Act were designated as intermediate risk. Certain impoundments classified as intermediate risk, however, may be reassessed in the future as low risk pursuant to legislation signed by the former North Carolina governor on July 14, 2016. Duke Energy Progress' estimated AROs related to the closure of North Carolina ash impoundments are based upon the mandated closure method or a probability weighting of potential closure methods for the impoundments that may be reassessed to low risk. As the final risk ranking classifications in North Carolina are delineated, final closure plans and corrective action measures are developed and approved for each site, the closure work progresses, and the closure method scope and remedial action methods are determined, the complexity of work and the amount of coal combustion material could be different than originally estimated and, therefore, could materially impact Duke Energy Progress' financial position. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations,” for additional information. 

Duke Energy Progress is a party to multiple lawsuits and subject to fines and other penalties related to operations at certain North Carolina facilities with ash basins. The outcome of these lawsuits, fines and penalties could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress’ financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information.

In the fourth quarter of 2016, Hurricane Matthew caused historic flooding, extensive damage and widespread power outages within the Duke Energy Progress service territory. Duke Energy Progress filed a petition with the NCUC requesting an accounting order to defer approximately $140 million of incremental operation and maintenance and capital costs incurred in response to Hurricane Matthew and other significant 2016 storms. The NCUC has not ruled on the petition. A final order from the NCUC that disallows the deferral and future recovery of all or a significant portion of the incremental storm restoration costs incurred could result in an adverse impact on Duke Energy Progress' financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Duke Energy Progress intends to file a rate case in North Carolina in 2017 to recover costs of complying with CCR regulations and the Coal Ash Act, as well as costs of capital investments in generation, transmission and distribution systems and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Duke Energy Progress' earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate case is delayed or denied by the NCUC.

55

PART II

DUKE ENERGY FLORIDA

Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Florida is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Florida. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Wholesale power sales include both billed and unbilled sales. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $432 million decrease in fuel and capacity revenues primarily due to lower fuel prices to retail customers, partially offset by increased capacity rates to retail customers;

•a $31 million decrease in wholesale power revenues primarily driven by contracts that expired in the prior year; and

•a $17 million decrease in retail sales, net of fuel revenue, due to unfavorable weather compared to the prior year.

Partially offset by:

•a $38 million increase in rider revenues primarily due to nuclear asset securitization revenues beginning in 2016, and an increase in energy conservation cost recovery clause and environmental cost recovery clause revenues due to higher recovery rates in 2016, partially offset by a decrease in NCRC revenues as a result of suspending recovery of the Levy nuclear project in 2015;

•a $19 million increase in other revenues primarily due to a customer settlement charge taken in the prior year, increased transmission demand and higher transmission rates; and

•a $16 million increase in weather-normal sales volumes to retail customers in the current year.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $382 million decrease in fuel expense primarily due to lower deferred fuel expense and lower generation costs, partially offset by increased purchased power; and 

•a $20 million decrease in property and other taxes due to lower revenue related taxes compared to the prior year.

56

PART II

Partially offset by:

•a $35 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to an increase in base assets and clause amortization; and

•a $33 million increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to higher employee benefit costs and costs recoverable through the energy conservation cost recovery clause, partially offset by lower costs related to fleet maintenance work.

Other Income and Expenses. The variance was primarily driven by higher AFUDC equity return on the Citrus County Combined Cycle and Hines Chiller Uprate projects in the current year.

Interest Expense. The variance was due to new bonds issued in 2016, partially offset by higher AFUDC debt return on the Citrus County Combined Cycle and Hines Chiller Uprate projects in the current year.

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to lower pretax income, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 36.9 percent and 36.3 percent, respectively. The increase in effective tax rate was primarily due the release of tax reserves in 2015 due to expired tax statutes, partially offset by higher AFUDC equity.

57

PART II

DUKE ENERGY OHIO

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Ohio is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales of electricity and average number of electric customers for Duke Energy Ohio. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $61 million increase in rider revenues primarily due to increased rates and true-ups.

Partially offset by:

•a $25 million decrease in fuel revenues driven by lower electric fuel and natural gas prices and decreased natural gas sales volumes.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven by:

•a $38 million decrease in the cost of natural gas, primarily due to decreased volumes and lower natural gas prices.

Partially offset by:

•a $17 million increase in operations and maintenance expense primarily due to increased spending on energy efficiency programs, higher PJM transmission owner scheduling and reactive supply expenses, and increased costs related to distribution projects and inspection maintenance programs, partially offset by lower allocated corporate costs;

•a $6 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense due to additional plant in service; and

•a $4 million increase in property and other taxes due to higher property taxes. 

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 28.9 percent and 35.2 percent, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an immaterial out of period adjustment related to deferred tax balances associated with property, plant and equipment.

58

PART II

Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. The variance was primarily due to an income tax benefit resulting from immaterial out of period deferred tax liability adjustments related to the Midwest Generation Disposal Group, partially offset by the Midwest Generation Disposal Group's operating results in 2015. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information.

Matters Impacting Future Results

An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash basins could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, for additional information.

Duke Energy Ohio’s nonregulated Beckjord station, a facility retired during 2014, is not subject to the EPA rule related to the disposal of CCR from electric utilities. However, if costs are incurred as a result of environmental regulations or to mitigate risk associated with on-site storage of coal ash at the facility, the costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

In 2013, the PUCO issued an order (PUCO order) approving Duke Energy Ohio’s recovery of costs incurred between 2008 and 2012 for environmental investigation and remediation of two former MGP sites. At December 31, 2016, Duke Energy Ohio had recorded in Regulatory assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet approximately $99 million of estimated MGP remediation costs not yet recovered through the MGP rider mechanism. Intervenors have appealed to the Ohio Supreme Court the PUCO order authorizing recovery of these amounts. That appeal remains pending. Duke Energy Ohio cannot predict the outcome of the appeal before the Ohio Supreme Court or future action by the PUCO. If Duke Energy Ohio is not able to recover these remediation costs in rates, the costs could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Ohio's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for additional information.

Duke Energy Ohio has a 9 percent ownership interest in OVEC, which owns 2,256 MW of coal fired generation capacity. As a counterparty to an ICPA, Duke Energy Ohio has a contractual arrangement to receive entitlements to capacity and energy from OVEC’s power plants through June 2040 commensurate with its power participation ratio, which is equivalent to Duke Energy Ohio’s ownership interest. Costs, including fuel, operating expenses, fixed costs, debt amortization, and interest expense, are allocated to counterparties to the ICPA, including Duke Energy Ohio, based on their power participation ratio. The value of the ICPA is subject to variability due to fluctuations in power prices and changes in OVEC’s costs of business. Deterioration in the credit quality or bankruptcy of one or more parties to the ICPA could increase the costs of OVEC. In addition, certain proposed environmental rulemaking costs could result in future increased cost allocations. 

Duke Energy Ohio has notified the PUCO of its intent to file an electric distribution rate case in Ohio to address recovery of electric distribution system capital investments and any increase in expenditures subsequent to previous rate cases. Duke Energy Ohio's earnings could be adversely impacted if the rate case is delayed or denied by the PUCO.

59

PART II

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA

 Introduction

Management’s Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.

Basis of Presentation

The results of operations and variance discussion for Duke Energy Indiana is presented in a reduced disclosure format in accordance with General Instruction (I)(2)(a) of Form 10-K.

Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table shows the percent changes in GWh sales and average number of customers for Duke Energy Indiana. The below percentages for retail customer classes represent billed sales only. Total sales includes billed and unbilled retail sales and wholesale sales to incorporated municipalities and to public and private utilities and power marketers. Amounts are not weather normalized.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Year Ended December 31, 2016 as Compared to 2015 

Operating Revenues. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $94 million increase in rider revenues related to clean coal equipment and Edwardsport IGCC; and

•a $20 million increase in wholesale power revenues due to new contracts and higher demand.

Partially offset by:

•a $50 million decrease in fuel revenues primarily due to a decrease in fuel prices.

Operating Expenses. The variance was driven primarily by:

•a $73 million decrease in fuel expense primarily due to lower fuel prices and lower purchased power costs; and

•an $88 million pretax impairment charge in the prior year related to the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlements.

Partially offset by:

•a $62 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense primarily due to additional plant in service, as well as increased depreciation related to AROs;

•a $40 million increase in operations and maintenance expense due to 2016 costs at Edwardsport IGCC in excess of the settlement cap and increased costs related to energy efficiency programs and clean coal technology that are recoverable through rate riders, partially offset by decreased expenses at several generating plants; and

•an $8 million impairment charge in the current year related to the early retirement of certain metering equipment.

Other Income and Expense. The variance was driven primarily by an increase in AFUDC equity in the current year and certain costs resulting from the 2015 Edwardsport IGCC settlements in the prior year.

60

PART II

Income Tax Expense. The variance was primarily due to an increase in pretax income. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 37.1 percent and 34.0 percent, respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an immaterial out of period adjustment to deferred tax balances in 2015 associated with property, plant and equipment and the reclassification of state tax credits from income tax to general franchise tax in 2016. 

Matters Impacting Future Results

On April 17, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register a rule to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. Duke Energy Indiana has interpreted the rule to identify the coal ash basin sites impacted and has assessed the amounts of coal ash subject to the rule and a method of compliance. Duke Energy Indiana's interpretation of the requirements of the CCR rule is subject to potential legal challenges and further regulatory approvals, which could result in additional ash basin closure requirements, higher costs of compliance and greater AROs. An order from regulatory authorities disallowing recovery of costs related to closure of ash basins could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Indiana's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 

The IURC approved a settlement agreement between Duke Energy Indiana and multiple parties that resolves all disputes, claims and issues from the IURC proceedings related to post-commercial operating performance and recovery of ongoing operating and capital costs at the Edwardsport IGCC generating facility. Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, the agreement imposes a cost cap for retail recoverable operations and maintenance costs through 2017. An inability to manage operating costs in accordance with caps imposed pursuant to the agreement could have an adverse impact on Duke Energy Indiana's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for additional information.

61

PART II

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES

Preparation of financial statements requires the application of accounting policies, judgments, assumptions and estimates that can significantly affect the reported results of operations, cash flows or the amounts of assets and liabilities recognized in the financial statements. Judgments made include the likelihood of success of particular projects, possible legal and regulatory challenges, earnings assumptions on pension and other benefit fund investments and anticipated recovery of costs, especially through regulated operations. 

Management discusses these policies, estimates and assumptions with senior members of management on a regular basis and provides periodic updates on management decisions to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Management believes the areas described below require significant judgment in the application of accounting policy or in making estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that may change in subsequent periods.

For further information, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."

Regulated Operations Accounting

Duke Energy’s regulated operations meet the criteria for application of regulated operations accounting treatment for substantially all of its operations. As a result, Duke Energy records assets and liabilities that would not be recorded for nonregulated entities. Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred because such costs are probable of future recovery in customer rates. Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds or reduce rates to customers for previous collections or deferred revenue for costs that have yet to be incurred. Regulatory assets and liabilities can also be recorded for Alternative Revenue Programs (ARP), such as rate stabilization adjustment mechanisms and weather normalization adjustments. These programs allow for the deferral or accrual of revenues to provide recovery of approved margins on an annual basis independent of weather and consumption patterns. Duke Energy also has ARP's that relate to energy efficiency programs.

Management continually assesses whether recorded regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory environment changes, historical regulatory treatment for similar costs in Duke Energy’s jurisdictions, litigation of rate orders, recent rate orders to other regulated entities, levels of actual return on equity compared to approved rates of return on equity and the status of any pending or potential deregulation legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, asset write-offs would be recognized in operating income. Additionally, regulatory agencies can provide flexibility in the manner and timing of the depreciation of property, plant and equipment, recognition of asset retirement costs and amortization of regulatory assets, or may disallow recovery of all or a portion of certain assets. For further information on regulatory assets and liabilities, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

As required by regulated operations accounting rules, significant judgment can be required to determine if an otherwise recognizable incurred cost, such as closure costs for ash impoundments, qualifies to be deferred for future recovery as a regulatory asset. Significant judgment can also be required to determine if revenues previously recognized are for entity specific costs that are no longer expected to be or have not yet been incurred and are therefore a regulatory liability. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for a more in-depth discussion of Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.

Regulated operations accounting rules also require recognition of a disallowance (also called "impairment") loss if it becomes probable that part of the cost of a plant under construction (or a recently completed or an abandoned plant) will be disallowed for ratemaking purposes and a reasonable estimate of the amount of the disallowance can be made. For example, if a cost cap is set for a plant still under construction, the amount of the disallowance is a result of a judgment as to the ultimate cost of the plant. Other disallowances can require judgments on allowed future rate recovery. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for a discussion of disallowances recorded related to the Edwardsport IGCC Plant, the retired Crystal River Unit 3 Nuclear Plant (Crystal River Unit 3) and the Grid Infrastructure Improvement Plan. 

When it becomes probable that regulated assets will be abandoned, the cost of the asset is removed from plant in service. The value that may be retained as a regulatory asset on the balance sheet for the abandoned property is dependent upon amounts that may be recovered through regulated rates, including any return. As such, an impairment charge, if any, could be partially or fully offset by the establishment of a regulatory asset if rate recovery is probable. The impairment for a disallowance of costs for regulated plants under construction, recently completed or abandoned is based on discounted cash flows.

For further information, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters."

Goodwill Impairment Assessments

Duke Energy allocates goodwill to reporting units, which are either the Business Segments listed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements or one level below based on how the Business Segment is managed. Duke Energy is required to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and more frequently if it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying value. Duke Energy performs its annual impairment test as of August 31.

Application of the goodwill impairment test requires management's judgment, including determining the fair value of the reporting unit, which management estimates using a weighted combination of the income approach, which estimates fair value based on discounted cash flows, and the market approach, which estimates fair value based on market comparables within the utility and energy industries. Significant assumptions used in these fair value analyses include discount and growth rates, future rates of return expected to result from ongoing rate regulation, utility sector market performance and transactions, projected operating and capital cash flows for Duke Energy’s business and the fair value of debt.

62

PART II

Estimated future cash flows under the income approach are based to a large extent on Duke Energy’s internal business plan, and adjusted as appropriate for Duke Energy’s views of market participant assumptions. Duke Energy’s internal business plan reflects management’s assumptions related to customer usage and attrition based on internal data and economic data obtained from third-party sources, projected commodity pricing data and potential changes in environmental regulations. The business plan assumes the occurrence of certain events in the future, such as the outcome of future rate filings, future approved rates of returns on equity, anticipated earnings/returns related to significant future capital investments, continued recovery of cost of service, the renewal of certain contracts and the future of renewable tax credits. Management also makes assumptions regarding operation, maintenance and general and administrative costs based on the expected outcome of the aforementioned events. In estimating cash flows, Duke Energy incorporates expected growth rates, regulatory and economic stability, the ability to renew contracts and other factors, into its revenue and expense forecasts.

One of the most significant assumptions that Duke Energy utilizes in determining the fair value of its reporting units under the income approach is the discount rate applied to the estimated future cash flows. Management determines the appropriate discount rate for each of its reporting units based on the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for each individual reporting unit. The WACC takes into account both the after-tax cost of debt and cost of equity. A major component of the cost of equity is the current risk-free rate on 20-year U.S. Treasury bonds. In the 2016 impairment tests, Duke Energy considered implied WACCs for certain peer companies in determining the appropriate WACC rates to use in its analysis. As each reporting unit has a different risk profile based on the nature of its operations, including factors such as regulation, the WACC for each reporting unit may differ. Accordingly, the WACCs were adjusted, as appropriate, to account for company specific risk premiums. The discount rates used for calculating the fair values as of August 31, 2016, for each of Duke Energy’s domestic reporting units ranged from 5.2 percent to 15 percent. The underlying assumptions and estimates are made as of a point in time. Subsequent changes, particularly changes in the discount rates, authorized regulated rates of return or growth rates inherent in management’s estimates of future cash flows, could result in future impairment charges.

For Duke Energy’s international operations, a country-specific risk adder based on the average risk premium for each separate country in which International Energy operates was added to the base discount rate to reflect the differing risk profiles. This resulted in a discount rate for the August 31, 2016, goodwill impairment test for the international operations of 11.5 percent. In December 2016, Duke Energy disposed of its International operations and no longer has goodwill associated with the International operations. For further information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Acquisitions and Dispositions.”

Duke Energy primarily operates in environments that are either fully or partially rate-regulated. In such environments, revenue requirements are adjusted periodically by regulators based on factors including levels of costs, sales volumes and costs of capital. Accordingly, Duke Energy’s regulated utilities operate to some degree with a buffer from the direct effects, positive or negative, of significant swings in market or economic conditions. However, significant changes in discount rates over a prolonged period may have a material impact on the fair value of equity.

As of August 31, 2016, all of the reporting units’ estimated fair value of equity substantially exceeded the carrying value of equity.

For further information, see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets."

Asset Retirement Obligations

AROs are recognized for legal obligations associated with the retirement of property, plant and equipment. Substantially all AROs are related to regulated operations. When recording an ARO, the present value of the projected liability is recognized in the period in which it is incurred, if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The liability is accreted over time. For operating plants, the present value of the liability is added to the cost of the associated asset and depreciated over the remaining life of the asset. For retired plants, the present value of the liability is recorded as a regulatory asset unless determined not to be recoverable.

The present value of the initial obligation and subsequent updates are based on discounted cash flows, which include estimates regarding timing of future cash flows, selection of discount rates and cost escalation rates, among other factors. These estimates are subject to change. Depreciation expense is adjusted prospectively for any changes to the carrying amount of the associated asset. The Duke Energy Registrants receive amounts to fund the cost of the ARO for regulated operations through a combination of regulated revenues and earnings on the nuclear decommissioning trust fund (NDTF). As a result, amounts recovered in regulated revenues, earnings on the NDTF, accretion expense and depreciation of the associated asset are netted and deferred as a regulatory asset or liability.

Obligations for nuclear decommissioning are based on-site-specific cost studies. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress assume prompt dismantlement of the nuclear facilities after operations are ceased. Duke Energy Florida assumes Crystal River Unit 3 will be placed into a safe storage configuration until eventual dismantlement is completed by 2074. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida also assume that spent fuel will be stored on-site until such time that it can be transferred to a yet to be built U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) facility.

Obligations for closure of ash basins are based upon discounted cash flows of estimated costs for site-specific plans, if known, or probability weightings of the potential closure methods if the closure plans are under development and multiple closure options are being considered and evaluated on a site-by-site basis.

For further information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations."

Long-Lived Asset Impairment Assessments, Excluding Regulated Operations

Property, plant and equipment, excluding plant held for sale, is stated at the lower of carrying value (historical cost less accumulated depreciation and previously recorded impairments) or fair value, if impaired. Duke Energy evaluates property, plant and equipment for impairment when events or changes in circumstances (such as a significant change in cash flow projections or the determination that it is more likely than not that an asset or asset group will be sold) indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. The determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the assets, as compared with their carrying value.

63

PART II

Performing an impairment evaluation involves a significant degree of estimation and judgment in areas such as identifying circumstances that indicate an impairment may exist, identifying and grouping affected assets and developing the undiscounted future cash flows. If an impairment has occurred, the amount of the impairment recognized is determined by estimating the fair value and recording a loss if the carrying value is greater than the fair value. Additionally, determining fair value requires probability weighting future cash flows to reflect expectations about possible variations in their amounts or timing and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. Although cash flow estimates are based on relevant information available at the time the estimates are made, estimates of future cash flows are, by nature, highly uncertain and may vary significantly from actual results. For assets identified as held for sale, the carrying value is compared to the estimated fair value less cost to sell to determine if an impairment loss is required. Until the assets are disposed of, their estimated fair value is re-evaluated when circumstances or events change.

When determining whether an asset or asset group has been impaired, management groups assets at the lowest level that has discrete cash flows. 

Revenue Recognition 

Revenues are recognized when either the electric service is provided or the natural gas is delivered. As retail meters are read, invoices are prepared and the invoice amount is generally recognized as "billed" revenue. Operating revenues also include "unbilled" electric and natural gas revenues for the amount of service provided or product delivered after the last meter reading prior to the end of the accounting period. Unbilled retail revenues are estimated by applying an average revenue per kilowatt-hour (kWh), per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) or per dekatherm (dth) for all customer classes to the number of estimated kWh, Mcf or dth delivered but not yet billed. 

For wholesale customers, the invoice amount is generally recognized as “billed” revenue. Although meters are read as of the end of the month, invoices have typically not been prepared. An estimate of the wholesale invoice is included in the reported amount of “unbilled” revenue. In addition, adjustments to accounts receivable or accruals of accounts payable are sometimes recorded to contracts billed under estimated formula rates which are subsequently trued-up in the following year. 

The amount of unbilled revenues can vary significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors that impact the change in the unbilled revenue receivable balance, including seasonality, weather, customer usage patterns, customer mix, timing of rendering customer bills, meter readings schedules and the average price in effect for customer classes. 

Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits

The calculation of pension expense, other post-retirement benefit expense and net pension and other post-retirement assets or liabilities require the use of assumptions and election of permissible accounting alternatives. Changes in assumptions can result in different expense and reported asset or liability amounts and future actual experience can differ from the assumptions. Duke Energy believes the most critical assumptions for pension and other post-retirement benefits are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the assumed discount rate applied to future projected benefit payments. Additionally, the health care cost trend rate assumption is critical to Duke Energy’s estimate of other post-retirement benefits.

Duke Energy elects to amortize net actuarial gains or losses in excess of the corridor of 10 percent of the greater of the market-related value of plan assets or plan projected benefit obligation, into net pension or other post-retirement benefit expense over the average remaining service period of active covered employees. Prior service cost or credit, which represents the effect on plan liabilities due to plan amendments, is amortized over the average remaining service period of active covered employees.

Duke Energy, or its affiliates, maintain, and the Subsidiary Registrants participate in, qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans. The plans cover most U.S. employees using a cash balance formula. Under a cash balance formula, a plan participant accumulates a retirement benefit consisting of pay credits based upon a percentage of current eligible earnings based on age and years of service and current interest credits. Certain employees are covered under plans that use a final average earnings formula. As of January 1, 2014, the qualified and non-qualified non-contributory defined benefit plans are closed to new and rehired non-union, and certain unionized employees. Piedmont employees hired or rehired after December 31, 2007, cannot participate in the qualified, non-contributory defined benefit plans, but are participants in a Money Purchase Pension plan. Duke Energy, or its affiliates, maintain, and the Subsidiary Registrants participate in, non-qualified, non-contributory defined benefit retirement plans which cover certain executives.

Duke Energy provides some health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees on a contributory and non-contributory basis. Certain employees are eligible for these benefits if they have met age and service requirements at retirement, as defined in the plans. These plans are closed to new participants.

As of December 31, 2016, Duke Energy assumes pension and other post-retirement plan assets will generate a long-term rate of return of 6.50 percent (6.75 percent for Piedmont pension and other post-retirement plan assets). The expected long-term rate of return was developed using a weighted average calculation of expected returns based primarily on future expected returns across asset classes considering the use of active asset managers, where applicable. Equity securities are held for their higher expected returns. Debt securities are primarily held to hedge the pension liability. Hedge funds, real estate and other global securities are held for diversification. Investments within asset classes are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of individual managers on investments. In 2013, Duke Energy adopted a de-risking investment strategy for its pension assets. As the funded status of the plans increase, over time the targeted allocation to return-seeking assets will be reduced and the targeted allocation to fixed-income assets will be increased to better manage Duke Energy's pension assets and reduce funded status volatility. Based on the current funded status of the plans, the asset allocation for the Duke Energy pension plans is 63 percent fixed-income assets and 37 percent return-seeking assets. The asset allocation for the Piedmont assets is 61 percent return-seeking assets and 39 percent liability hedging fixed-income assets. Duke Energy regularly reviews its actual asset allocation and periodically rebalances its investments to the targeted allocations when considered appropriate.

64

PART II

The assets for Duke Energy’s pension and other post-retirement plans are maintained in a master retirement trust. Piedmont also has qualified pension and other post-retirement assets. Duke Energy also invests other post-retirement assets in Voluntary Employees' Beneficiary Association trusts and mutual funds within a Piedmont 401(h) account (excludes 401(h) accounts within the master retirement trust). The investment objective is to achieve sufficient returns, subject to a prudent level of portfolio risk, for the purpose of promoting the security of plan benefits for participants. 

Duke Energy discounted its future U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a rate of 4.1 percent as of December 31, 2016. Discount rates used to measure benefit plan obligations for financial reporting purposes reflect rates at which pension benefits could be effectively settled. As of December 31, 2016, Duke Energy determined its discount rate for U.S. pension and other post-retirement obligations using a bond selection-settlement portfolio approach. This approach develops a discount rate by selecting a portfolio of high quality corporate bonds that generate sufficient cash flow to provide for projected benefit payments of the plan. The selected bond portfolio is derived from a universe of non-callable corporate bonds rated Aa quality or higher. After the bond portfolio is selected, a single interest rate is determined that equates the present value of the plan’s projected benefit payments discounted at this rate with the market value of the bonds selected.

Future changes in plan asset returns, assumed discount rates and various other factors related to the participants in Duke Energy’s pension and post-retirement plans will impact future pension expense and liabilities. Duke Energy cannot predict with certainty what these factors will be in the future. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2016 pretax pension expense, pretax other post-retirement expense, pension obligation and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 0.25 percent change in rates were to occur.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Duke Energy’s other post-retirement plan uses a health care trend rate covering both pre- and post-age 65 retired plan participants, which is comprised of a medical care trend rate, which reflects the near- and long-term expectation of increases in medical costs, and a prescription drug trend rate, which reflects the near- and long-term expectation of increases in prescription drug costs. As of December 31, 2016, the health care trend rate was 7 percent, trending down to 4.75 percent by 2023. The following table presents the approximate effect on Duke Energy’s 2016 pretax other post-retirement expense and other post-retirement benefit obligation if a 1 percentage point change in the health care trend rate were to occur. These plans are closed to new hires. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For further information, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans.”

Income Taxes

Duke Energy and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return and other state returns. The Subsidiary Registrants entered into a tax-sharing agreement with Duke Energy. Income taxes recorded represent amounts the Subsidiary Registrants would incur as separate C-Corporations. Deferred income taxes have been provided for temporary differences between GAAP and tax bases of assets and liabilities because the differences create taxable or tax-deductible amounts for future periods. ITCs associated with regulated operations are deferred and amortized as a reduction of income tax expense over the estimated useful lives of the related properties.

Positions taken or expected to be taken on tax returns, including the decision to exclude certain income or transactions from a return, are recognized in the financial statements when it is more likely than not the tax position can be sustained based solely on the technical merits of the position. The largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being effectively settled is recorded. Management considers a tax position effectively settled when: (i) the taxing authority has completed its examination procedures, including all appeals and administrative reviews; (ii) the Duke Energy Registrants do not intend to appeal or litigate the tax position included in the completed examination; and (iii) it is remote the taxing authority would examine or re-examine the tax position. The amount of a tax return position that is not recognized in the financial statements is disclosed as an unrecognized tax benefit. If these unrecognized tax benefits are later recognized, then there will be a decrease in income tax expense or a reclassification between deferred and current taxes payable. If the portion of tax benefits that has been recognized changes and those tax benefits are subsequently unrecognized, then the previously recognized tax benefits may impact the financial statements through increasing income tax expense or a reclassification between deferred and current taxes payable. Changes in assumptions on tax benefits may also impact interest expense or interest income and may result in the recognition of tax penalties.

Tax-related interest and penalties are recorded in Interest Expense and Other Income and Expenses, net, in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

65

PART II

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Sources and Uses of Cash

Duke Energy relies primarily upon cash flows from operations, debt issuances and its existing cash and cash equivalents to fund its liquidity and capital requirements. Duke Energy’s capital requirements arise primarily from capital and investment expenditures, repaying long-term debt and paying dividends to shareholders. Duke Energy’s projected primary sources and uses for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Excludes capital leases and 2018 maturities of securitized receivables expected to be renewed. Amounts represent Duke Energy's financing plan, which accelerates certain contractual maturities.

(b)Subject to approval by the Board of Directors.

(c)Includes expenditures related to ash basin closures.

During 2014, Duke Energy declared a taxable dividend of foreign earnings in the form of notes payable that was intended to result in the repatriation of approximately $2.7 billion of cash held and expected to be generated by International Energy over a period of up to eight years. In 2015, approximately $1.5 billion was remitted. In 2016, $120 million was remitted. The remaining amount was remitted in the first quarter of 2017.

The Subsidiary Registrants generally maintain minimal cash balances and use short-term borrowings to meet their working capital needs and other cash requirements. The Subsidiary Registrants, excluding Progress Energy, support their short-term borrowing needs through participation with Duke Energy and certain of its other subsidiaries in a money pool arrangement. The companies with short-term funds may provide short-term loans to affiliates participating under this arrangement. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities,” for additional discussion of the money pool arrangement.

Duke Energy and the Subsidiary Registrants, excluding Progress Energy, may also use short-term debt, including commercial paper and the money pool, as a bridge to long-term debt financings. The levels of borrowing may vary significantly over the course of the year due to the timing of long-term debt financings and the impact of fluctuations in cash flows from operations. From time to time, Duke Energy’s current liabilities exceed current assets resulting from the use of short-term debt as a funding source to meet scheduled maturities of long-term debt, as well as cash needs, which can fluctuate due to the seasonality of its businesses.

Piedmont Acquisition

On October 3, 2016, Duke Energy acquired all outstanding common stock of Piedmont for a total cash purchase price of $5.0 billion, and assumed Piedmont's existing long-term debt, which had an estimated fair value of approximately $2.0 billion at the time of the acquisition. For further information on the acquisition, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions."

Financings to fund the transaction included $3.75 billion of long-term debt issued in August 2016, $750 million borrowed under the Term Loan in September 2016, as well as the issuance of 10.6 million shares of common stock in October 2016. The share issuance resulted in net cash proceeds of approximately $723 million. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Debt and Credit Facilities," for additional information related to the debt issuance and Note 18, "Common Stock," for additional information related to the equity issuance.

International Energy

In February 2016, Duke Energy announced it had initiated a process to divest the International Disposal Group, and in October 2016, announced it had entered into two separate sales agreements to execute the divestiture. Both sales closed in December of 2016, resulting in available cash proceeds of $1.9 billion, excluding transaction costs. Proceeds were primarily used to reduce Duke Energy holding company debt. Existing favorable tax attributes result in no immediate U.S. federal-level cash tax impacts. For further information on the sale, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions."

66

PART II

Credit Facilities and Registration Statements

Available Credit Facilities

Duke Energy has a Master Credit Facility with a capacity of $7.5 billion through January 2020. The Duke Energy Registrants, excluding Progress Energy (Parent) and Piedmont, have borrowing capacity under the Master Credit Facility up to specified sublimits for each borrower. Duke Energy has the unilateral ability at any time to increase or decrease the borrowing sublimits of each borrower, subject to a maximum sublimit for each borrower. The amount available under the Master Credit Facility has been reduced to backstop issuances of commercial paper, certain letters of credit and variable-rate demand tax-exempt bonds that may be put to the Duke Energy Registrants at the option of the holder. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress are also required to each maintain $250 million of available capacity under the Master Credit Facility as security to meet obligations under plea agreements reached with the U.S. Department of Justice in 2015 related to violations at North Carolina facilities with ash basins. 

Piedmont has a separate five-year revolving syndicated credit facility, with a capacity of $850 million through December 2020 and an expansion option of up to an additional $200 million. The facility provides a line of credit for letters of credit of $10 million.

The table below includes the current borrowing sublimits and available capacity under these credit facilities. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes amounts related to Piedmont's $850 million credit facility.

(b)Represents the sublimit of each borrower.

(c)Duke Energy issued $625 million of commercial paper and loaned the proceeds through the money pool to Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. The balances are classified as Long-Term Debt Payable to Affiliated Companies in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

Term Loan Facility

In 2016, Duke Energy (Parent) entered into a $1.5 billion term loan facility, as amended (Term Loan) maturing on July 31, 2017. During 2016, Duke Energy (Parent) drew the full amount available under the Term Loan and used $750 million of proceeds to fund a portion of the Piedmont acquisition and the remaining $750 million to manage short-term liquidity and for general corporate purposes. The terms and conditions of the Term Loan were generally consistent with those governing Duke Energy’s Master Credit Facility. In December 2016, Duke Energy (Parent) repaid the $1.5 billion term loan which terminated this credit facility.

Shelf Registration

In September 2016, Duke Energy filed a registration statement (Form S-3) with the SEC. Under this Form S-3, which is uncapped, the Duke Energy Registrants, excluding Progress Energy may issue debt and other securities in the future at amounts, prices and with terms to be determined at the time of future offerings. The registration statement also allows for the issuance of common stock by Duke Energy.

In January 2017, Duke Energy amended its Form S-3 to add Piedmont as a registrant and included in the amendment a prospectus for Piedmont under which it may issue debt securities in the same manner as other Duke Energy Registrants.

67

PART II

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Duke Energy continues to focus on reducing risk and positioning its business for future success and will invest principally in its strongest business sectors. Duke Energy’s projected capital and investment expenditures for the next three fiscal years are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

DEBT MATURITIES

The following table shows the significant components of Current maturities of Long-Term Debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Duke Energy Registrants currently anticipate satisfying these obligations with cash on hand and proceeds from additional borrowings.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Includes capital lease obligations, amortizing debt and small bullet maturities.

DIVIDEND PAYMENTS

In 2016, Duke Energy paid quarterly cash dividends for the 90th consecutive year and expects to continue its policy of paying regular cash dividends in the future. There is no assurance as to the amount of future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and are subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors.

Duke Energy targets a dividend payout ratio of between 70 percent and 75 percent, based upon adjusted diluted EPS. In 2015 and 2016, Duke Energy increased the dividend by approximately 4 percent annually. Through 2021, the annual dividend growth rate is expected to be approximately 4 to 6 percent. 

68

PART II

Dividend and Other Funding Restrictions of Duke Energy Subsidiaries

As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” Duke Energy’s wholly owned public utility operating companies have restrictions on the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy through dividends, advances or loans as a result of conditions imposed by various regulators in conjunction with merger transactions. Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida also have restrictions imposed by their first mortgage bond indentures and Articles of Incorporation which in certain circumstances limit their ability to make cash dividends or distributions on common stock. Additionally, certain other Duke Energy subsidiaries have other restrictions, such as minimum working capital and tangible net worth requirements pursuant to debt and other agreements that limit the amount of funds that can be transferred to Duke Energy. At December 31, 2016, the amount of restricted net assets of wholly owned subsidiaries of Duke Energy that may not be distributed to Duke Energy in the form of a loan or dividend is less than 25 percent of Duke Energy’s net assets. Duke Energy does not have any legal or other restrictions on paying common stock dividends to shareholders out of its consolidated equity accounts. Although these restrictions cap the amount of funding the various operating subsidiaries can provide to Duke Energy, management does not believe these restrictions will have a significant impact on Duke Energy’s ability to access cash to meet its payment of dividends on common stock and other future funding obligations.

CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Cash flows from operations of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure and Gas Utilities and Infrastructure are primarily driven by sales of electricity and natural gas, respectively, and costs of operations. These cash flows from operations are relatively stable and comprise a substantial portion of Duke Energy’s operating cash flows. Weather conditions, working capital and commodity price fluctuations, and unanticipated expenses including unplanned plant outages, storms, legal costs and related settlements can affect the timing and level of cash flows from operations.

Duke Energy believes it has sufficient liquidity resources through the commercial paper markets, and ultimately, the Master Credit Facility, to support these operations. Cash flows from operations are subject to a number of other factors, including, but not limited to, regulatory constraints, economic trends and market volatility (see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional information).

At December 31, 2016, Duke Energy had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of $392 million.

DEBT ISSUANCES

Depending on availability based on the issuing entity, the credit rating of the issuing entity, and market conditions, the Subsidiary Registrants prefer to issue first mortgage bonds and secured debt, followed by unsecured debt. This preference is the result of generally higher credit ratings for first mortgage bonds and secured debt, which typically result in lower interest costs. Duke Energy Corporation primarily issues unsecured debt.

Duke Energy’s capitalization is balanced between debt and equity as shown in the table below. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Duke Energy’s fixed charges coverage ratio, calculated using Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) guidelines, was 2.7 times for 2016, 3.1 times for 2015, and 3.0 times for 2014.

Restrictive Debt Covenants

Duke Energy’s debt and credit agreements contain various financial and other covenants. Duke Energy's Master Credit Facility contains a covenant requiring the debt-to-total capitalization ratio to not exceed 65 percent for each borrower. Piedmont's credit facility contains a debt-to-total capitalization covenant not to exceed 70 percent. Failure to meet those covenants beyond applicable grace periods could result in accelerated due dates and/or termination of the agreements or sublimits thereto. As of December 31, 2016, each of the Duke Energy Registrants were in compliance with all covenants related to their debt agreements. In addition, some credit agreements may allow for acceleration of payments or termination of the agreements due to nonpayment, or acceleration of other significant indebtedness of the borrower or some of its subsidiaries. None of the debt or credit agreements contain material adverse change clauses.

69

PART II

Credit Ratings

The Duke Energy Registrants each hold credit ratings by Fitch Ratings, Inc. (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody’s) and Standard & Poor’s Rating Services (S&P). The following table includes Duke Energy and certain subsidiaries’ credit ratings and ratings outlook as of February 2017.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit ratings are intended to provide credit lenders a framework for comparing the credit quality of securities and are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit ratings are dependent on the rating agencies’ assessments of their ability to meet their debt principal and interest obligations when they come due. If, as a result of market conditions or other factors, the Duke Energy Registrants are unable to maintain current balance sheet strength, or if earnings and cash flow outlook materially deteriorates, credit ratings could be negatively impacted.

Cash Flow Information

The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

70

PART II

OPERATING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s operating cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to 2015, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $300 million increase in cash flows from working capital primarily due to the sale of the international business; and

•a $147 million decrease in contributions to qualified pension plans.

Offset by:

•a $262 million increase in payments for AROs; and

•a $63 million decrease in net income after non-cash adjustments due to higher storm costs offset by favorable weather, increased rider revenues, higher wholesale margins and strong cost control.

For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $376 million increase in net income after non-cash adjustments resulting from increased retail pricing due to rate riders and higher base rates, increased wholesale net margins due to higher contracted amounts and prices, a new wholesale contract with NCEMPA, retail sales growth; and

•a $294 million increase in cash flows from a working capital decrease primarily due to lower current year receivables resulting from unseasonably warmer weather in December 2015 and prior year under collection of fuel and purchased power due to increased consumption.

Offset by:

•a $302 million increase in contributions to qualified pension plans; and

•a $278 million increase in payments for AROs.

INVESTING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s investing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The primary use of cash related to investing activities is capital, investment and acquisition expenditures, detailed by reportable business segment in the following table.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

71

PART II

For the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to 2015, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $4,852 million increase in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures mainly due to the Piedmont acquisition; and 

•a $1,550 million decrease in net proceeds from sales of discontinued operations mainly due to the variance in proceeds between the prior year sale of the Midwest generation business and the current year sale of the International business.

For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $2,789 million increase in proceeds mainly due to the sale of the nonregulated Midwest generation business to Dynegy, Inc. (Dynegy); and

•a $202 million return of collateral related to the Chilean acquisition in 2013. The collateral was used to repay a secured loan.

Partially offset by:

•a $2,835 million increase in capital, investment and acquisition expenditures mainly due to the acquisition of NCEMPA ownership interests in certain generating assets, fuel and spare parts inventory jointly owned with and operated by Duke Energy Progress and growth initiatives in electric and natural gas infrastructure, solar projects and natural-gas fired generation.

FINANCING CASH FLOWS

The following table summarizes key components of Duke Energy’s financing cash flows for the three most recently completed fiscal years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

For the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to 2015, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $7,389 million increase in proceeds from net issuances of long-term debt mainly due to the issuances of $3,750 million of senior unsecured notes used to fund a portion of the Piedmont acquisition, $1,294 million of nuclear asset-recovery bonds and other issuances primarily used to fund capital expenditures, pay down outstanding commercial paper and repay debt maturities; and

•a $1,500 million decrease in cash outflows due to the 2015 repurchase of 19.8 million common shares under the ASR; and

•a $714 million increase in proceeds resulting from the issuance of common stock to fund the acquisition of Piedmont.

Partially offset by:

•a $2,692 million increase in cash outflows for the net payments of notes payable and commercial paper primarily through the use of proceeds from $1,294 million nuclear asset-recovery bonds issued at Duke Energy Florida, further increased by the prior year use of short-term debt to repay long-term debt maturities at Duke Energy Florida in advance of the 2016 proceeds from the nuclear asset-recovery bonds. 

For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 2014, the variance was driven primarily by:

•a $1,500 million increase in cash outflows due to the 2015 repurchase of 19.8 million common shares under the ASR; and 

•a $443 million decrease in proceeds from net issuances of notes payable and commercial paper primarily due to prior year financing with short-term debt in advance of the 2015 receipt of proceeds from the sale of the nonregulated Midwest generation business to Dynegy, net of current year financing with short-term debt used to repay long-term debt maturities at Duke Energy Florida in advance of the 2016 proceeds from the proposed issuance of the nuclear asset-recovery bonds. 

72

PART II

Summary of Significant Debt Issuances

Piedmont Acquisition Financing

In August 2016, Duke Energy issued $3.75 billion of senior unsecured notes in three separate series. The net proceeds were used to finance a portion of the Piedmont acquisition. The $4.9 billion Bridge Facility was terminated following the issuance of this debt. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for additional information on the Piedmont acquisition.

Nuclear Asset-Recovery Bonds

In June 2016, DEFPF issued $1,294 million of nuclear asset-recovery bonds and used the proceeds to acquire nuclear asset-recovery property from its parent, Duke Energy Florida. The nuclear asset-recovery bonds are payable only from and secured by the nuclear asset-recovery property. DEFPF is consolidated for financial reporting purposes; however, the nuclear asset-recovery bonds do not constitute a debt, liability or other legal obligation of, or interest in, Duke Energy Florida or any of its affiliates other than DEFPF. The assets of DEFPF, including the nuclear asset-recovery property, are not available to pay creditors of Duke Energy Florida or any of its affiliates. Duke Energy Florida used the proceeds from the sale to repay short-term borrowings under the intercompany money pool borrowing arrangement and make an equity distribution of $649 million to the ultimate parent, Duke Energy (Parent), which repaid short-term borrowings. See Notes 4 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and "Variable Interest Entities," respectively, for additional information.

Solar Facilities Financing

In August 2016, Emerald State Solar, LLC, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, entered into a $333 million portfolio financing of approximately 22 North Carolina Solar facilities. Tranche A of $228 million is secured by substantially all the assets of the solar facilities and is nonrecourse to Duke Energy. Tranche B of $105 million is secured by an Equity Contribution Agreement with Duke Energy. Proceeds were used to reimburse Duke Energy for a portion of previously funded construction expenditures related to the Emerald State Solar, LLC portfolio. The initial interest rate on the loans was six months London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable margin of 1.75 percent plus a 0.125 percent increase every three years thereafter. In connection with this debt issuance, Emerald State Solar, LLC entered into two interest rate swaps to convert the substantial majority of the loan interest payments from variable rates to fixed rates of approximately 1.81 percent for Tranche A and 1.38 percent for Tranche B, plus the applicable margin. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Derivatives and Hedging," for further information on the notional amounts of the interest rate swaps.

Duke Energy Florida Bond Issuance

In January 2017, Duke Energy Florida issued $900 million of first mortgage bonds. The issuance was split between a $250 million, three-year series and a $650 million, 10-year series. The net proceeds from the issuance were used to repay at maturity $250 million aggregate principal amount of bonds due September 2017, as well as to fund capital expenditures for ongoing construction and capital maintenance and for general corporate purposes.

73

PART II

The following tables summarize significant debt issuances (in millions).

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Proceeds were used to pay down outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.

(b)The nuclear asset recovery bonds are sequential pay amortizing bonds. The maturity date above represents the scheduled final maturity date for the bonds. 

(c)Proceeds were used to fund capital expenditures for ongoing construction, capital maintenance and for general corporate purposes.

(d)Proceeds were used to repay $325 million of unsecured debt due June 2016, $150 million of first mortgage bonds due July 2016 and for general corporate purposes.

(e)Proceeds were used to fund capital expenditures for ongoing construction, capital maintenance, to repay short-term borrowings under the intercompany money pool borrowing arrangement and for general corporate purposes.

(f)Proceeds were used to repay at maturity $350 million aggregate principal amount of certain bonds due December 2016, as well as to fund capital expenditures for ongoing construction and capital maintenance and for general corporate purposes.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Proceeds were used to repay short-term money pool and commercial paper borrowing issued to fund a portion of the NCEMPA acquisition, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions and Dispositions," for further information. 

(b)Proceeds were used to refinance at maturity $300 million of unsecured notes at Progress Energy due January 2016.

(c)Proceeds were used to redeem at maturity $500 million of first mortgage bonds due October 2015.

(d)Proceeds were used to refinance at maturity $400 million of first mortgage bonds due December 2015.

74

PART II

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Duke Energy and certain of its subsidiaries enter into guarantee arrangements in the normal course of business to facilitate commercial transactions with third parties. These arrangements include performance guarantees, stand-by letters of credit, debt guarantees, surety bonds and indemnifications.

Most of the guarantee arrangements entered into by Duke Energy enhance the credit standing of certain subsidiaries, non-consolidated entities or less than wholly owned entities, enabling them to conduct business. As such, these guarantee arrangements involve elements of performance and credit risk, which are not always included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The possibility of Duke Energy, either on its own or on behalf of Spectra Energy Capital, LLC (Spectra Capital) through indemnification agreements entered into as part of the January 2, 2007, spin-off of Spectra Energy Corp, having to honor its contingencies is largely dependent upon the future operations of the subsidiaries, investees and other third parties, or the occurrence of certain future events.

Duke Energy performs ongoing assessments of their respective guarantee obligations to determine whether any liabilities have been incurred as a result of potential increased non-performance risk by third parties for which Duke Energy has issued guarantees.

See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further details of the guarantee arrangements.

Issuance of these guarantee arrangements is not required for the majority of Duke Energy’s operations. Thus, if Duke Energy discontinued issuing these guarantees, there would not be a material impact to the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.

Other than the guarantee arrangements discussed above, normal operating lease arrangements and off-balance sheet debt related to non-consolidated VIEs, Duke Energy does not have any material off-balance sheet financing entities or structures. For additional information, see Note 5 and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies” and "Variable Interest Entities," respectively.

Contractual Obligations

Duke Energy enters into contracts that require payment of cash at certain specified periods, based on certain specified minimum quantities and prices. The following table summarizes Duke Energy’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2016.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Debt and Credit Facilities.”

(b)Interest payments on variable rate debt instruments were calculated using December 31, 2016, interest rates and holding them constant for the life of the instruments.

(c)See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” Amounts in the table above include the interest component of capital leases based on the interest rates stated in the lease agreements and exclude certain related executory costs. Amounts exclude contingent lease obligations.

(d)Current liabilities, except for current maturities of long-term debt, and purchase obligations reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets have been excluded from the above table.

(e)Includes firm capacity payments that provide Duke Energy with uninterrupted firm access to electricity transmission capacity and natural gas transportation contracts, as well as undesignated contracts and contracts that qualify as normal purchase/normal sale (NPNS). For contracts where the price paid is based on an index, the amount is based on market prices at December 31, 2016, or the best projections of the index. For certain of these amounts, Duke Energy may settle on a net cash basis since Duke Energy has entered into payment netting arrangements with counterparties that permit Duke Energy to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties.

(f)Amounts exclude obligations under the OVEC purchase power agreement. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.

(g)Includes contracts for software, telephone, data and consulting or advisory services. Amount also includes contractual obligations for engineering, procurement and construction costs for new generation plants, wind and solar facilities, plant refurbishments, maintenance and day-to-day contract work and commitments to buy certain products. Amount excludes certain open purchase orders for services that are provided on demand, for which the timing of the purchase cannot be determined.

75

PART II

(h)Related to future annual funding obligations to NDTF through nuclear power stations' relicensing dates. Amounts through 2017 include North Carolina jurisdictional amounts that Duke Energy Progress retained internally and is transitioning to its external decommissioning funds per a 2008 NCUC order. The transition of the original $131 million must be complete by December 31, 2017, and at least 10 percent must be transitioned each year. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations."[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(j)The table above excludes reserves for litigation, environmental remediation, asbestos-related injuries and damages claims and self-insurance claims (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”) because Duke Energy is uncertain as to the timing and amount of cash payments that will be required. Additionally, the table above excludes annual insurance premiums that are necessary to operate the business, including nuclear insurance (see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies”), funding of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans (see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Employee Benefit Plans"), AROs, including ash management expenditures (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations") and regulatory liabilities (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters”) because the amount and timing of the cash payments are uncertain. Also excluded are Deferred Income Taxes and ITCs recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since cash payments for income taxes are determined based primarily on taxable income for each discrete fiscal year. 

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

Risk Management Policies

The Enterprise Risk Management policy framework at Duke Energy includes strategy, operational, project execution and financial or transaction related risks. Enterprise Risk Management includes market risk as part of the financial and transaction related risks in its framework. 

Duke Energy is exposed to market risks associated with commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Duke Energy has established comprehensive risk management policies to monitor and manage these market risks. Duke Energy’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for the overall approval of market risk management policies and the delegation of approval and authorization levels. The Finance and Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors receives periodic updates from the Chief Risk Officer and other members of management on market risk positions, corporate exposures and overall risk management activities. The Chief Risk Officer is responsible for the overall governance of managing commodity price risk, including monitoring exposure limits.

The following disclosures about market risk contain forward-looking statements that involve estimates, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Please review Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information” for a discussion of the factors that may impact any such forward-looking statements made herein.

Commodity Price Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the prices of electricity, coal, natural gas and other energy-related products marketed and purchased as a result of its ownership of energy-related assets. Duke Energy’s exposure to these fluctuations is limited by the cost-based regulation of its regulated operations as these operations are typically allowed to recover substantially all of these costs through various cost-recovery clauses, including fuel clauses. While there may be a delay in timing between when these costs are incurred and when they are recovered through rates, changes from year to year generally do not have a material impact on operating results of these regulated operations.

Price risk represents the potential risk of loss from adverse changes in the market price of electricity or other energy commodities. Duke Energy’s exposure to commodity price risk is influenced by a number of factors, including contract size, length, market liquidity, location and unique or specific contract terms. Duke Energy employs established policies and procedures to manage risks associated with these market fluctuations, which may include using various commodity derivatives, such as swaps, futures, forwards and options. For additional information, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Derivatives and Hedging.”

The inputs and methodologies used to determine the fair value of contracts are validated by an internal group separate from Duke Energy’s deal origination function. While Duke Energy uses common industry practices to develop its valuation techniques, changes in its pricing methodologies or the underlying assumptions could result in significantly different fair values and income recognition.

Hedging Strategies

Duke Energy closely monitors risks associated with commodity price changes on its future operations and, where appropriate, uses various commodity instruments such as electricity, coal and natural gas forward contracts to mitigate the effect of such fluctuations on operations. Duke Energy’s primary use of energy commodity derivatives is to hedge the generation portfolio against exposure to the prices of power and fuel.

The majority of instruments used to manage Duke Energy’s commodity price exposure are either not designated as hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting. These instruments are referred to as undesignated contracts. Mark-to-market changes for undesignated contracts entered into by regulated businesses are reflected as regulatory assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Undesignated contracts entered into by unregulated businesses are marked-to-market each period, with changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments reflected in earnings.

Duke Energy may also enter into other contracts that qualify for the NPNS exception. When a contract meets the criteria to qualify as NPNS, Duke Energy applies such exception. Income recognition and realization related to NPNS contracts generally coincide with the physical delivery of the commodity. For contracts qualifying for the NPNS exception, no recognition of the contract’s fair value in the Consolidated Financial Statements is required until settlement of the contract as long as the transaction remains probable of occurring.

76

PART II

Generation Portfolio Risks 

Duke Energy is primarily exposed to market price fluctuations of wholesale power, natural gas and coal prices in the Electric Utilities and Gas Utilities segments. The Duke Energy Registrants optimize the value of their generation portfolios, which include generation assets, fuel and emission allowances. Modeled forecasts of future generation output and fuel requirements are based on forward power and fuel markets. The component pieces of the portfolio are bought and sold based on models and forecasts of generation in order to manage the economic value of the portfolio in accordance with the strategies of the business units. 

For the Electric Utilities segment, the generation portfolio not utilized to serve retail operations or committed load is subject to commodity price fluctuations. However, the impact on the Consolidated Statements of Operations is partially offset by mechanisms in these regulated jurisdictions that result in the sharing of net profits from these activities with retail customers. 

Interest Rate Risk

Duke Energy is exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates as a result of its issuance of variable and fixed-rate debt and commercial paper. Duke Energy manages interest rate exposure by limiting variable-rate exposures to a percentage of total debt and by monitoring the effects of market changes in interest rates. Duke Energy also enters into financial derivative instruments, which may include instruments such as, but not limited to, interest rate swaps, swaptions and U.S. Treasury lock agreements to manage and mitigate interest rate risk exposure. See Notes 1, 6, 14 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” “Debt and Credit Facilities,” “Derivatives and Hedging,” and “Fair Value Measurements.”

At December 31, 2016, Duke Energy had $777 million notional amount of floating-to-fixed swaps outstanding, $500 million notional amount of fixed-to-floating swaps outstanding and $400 million forward-starting swaps outstanding. Duke Energy had $6.3 billion of unhedged long- and short-term floating interest rate exposure at December 31, 2016. The impact of a 100 basis point change in interest rates on pretax income is approximately $63 million at December 31, 2016. This amount was estimated by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on variable-rate securities outstanding, adjusted for interest rate hedges as of December 31, 2016.

See Note 14, "Derivatives and Hedging," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the forward-starting interest rate swaps related to the Piedmont acquisition.

Credit Risk

Credit risk represents the loss that the Duke Energy Registrants would incur if a counterparty fails to perform under its contractual obligations. Where exposed to credit risk, the Duke Energy Registrants analyze the counterparty's financial condition prior to entering into an agreement and monitor exposure on an ongoing basis. The Duke Energy Registrants establish credit limits where appropriate in the context of contractual arrangements and monitor such limits. 

To reduce credit exposure, the Duke Energy Registrants seek to include netting provisions with counterparties which permit the offset of receivables and payables with such counterparties. The Duke Energy Registrants also frequently use master agreements with credit support annexes to further mitigate certain credit exposures. The master agreements provide for a counterparty to post cash or letters of credit to the exposed party for exposure in excess of an established threshold. The threshold amount represents a negotiated unsecured credit limit for each party to the agreement, determined in accordance with the Duke Energy Registrants’ internal corporate credit practices and standards. Collateral agreements generally also provide that the inability to post collateral is sufficient cause to terminate contracts and liquidate all positions. 

The Duke Energy Registrants also obtain cash or letters of credit from certain counterparties to provide credit support outside of collateral agreements, where appropriate, based on a financial analysis of the counterparty and the regulatory or contractual terms and conditions applicable to each transaction. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Derivatives and Hedging,” for additional information regarding credit risk related to derivative instruments. 

The Duke Energy Registrants’ principal counterparties for its electric and gas businesses are regional transmission organizations, distribution companies, municipalities, electric cooperatives and utilities located throughout the U.S. The Duke Energy Registrants have concentrations of receivables from such entities throughout these regions. These concentrations of receivables may affect the Duke Energy Registrants’ overall credit risk in that risk factors can negatively impact the credit quality of the entire sector. 

The Duke Energy Registrants are also subject to credit risk from transactions with their suppliers that involve pre-payments in conjunction with outsourcing arrangements, major construction projects and certain commodity purchases. The Duke Energy Registrants’ credit exposure to such suppliers may take the form of increased costs or project delays in the event of nonperformance. The Duke Energy Registrants' frequently require guarantees or letters of credit from suppliers to mitigate this credit risk.

Credit risk associated with the Duke Energy Registrants’ service to residential, commercial and industrial customers is generally limited to outstanding accounts receivable. The Duke Energy Registrants mitigate this credit risk by requiring customers to provide a cash deposit, letter of credit or surety bond until a satisfactory payment history is established, subject to the rules and regulations in effect in each retail jurisdiction, at which time the deposit is typically refunded. Charge-offs for retail customers have historically been insignificant to the operations of the Duke Energy Registrants and are typically recovered through retail rates. Management continually monitors customer charge-offs and payment patterns to ensure the adequacy of bad debt reserves. Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana sell certain of their accounts receivable and related collections through Cinergy Receivables Company LLC (CRC), a Duke Energy consolidated variable interest entity. Losses on collection are first absorbed by the equity of CRC and next by the subordinated retained interests held by Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Kentucky and Duke Energy Indiana. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Variable Interest Entities.” 

77

PART II

Duke Energy Carolinas has third-party insurance to cover certain losses related to asbestos-related injuries and damages above an aggregate self-insured retention. Duke Energy Carolinas’ cumulative payments began to exceed the self-insurance retention in 2008. Future payments up to the policy limit will be reimbursed by the third-party insurance carrier. The insurance policy limit for potential future insurance recoveries indemnification and medical cost claim payments is $814 million in excess of the self-insured retention. Receivables for insurance recoveries were $587 million and $599 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. These amounts are classified in Other within Investments and Other Assets and Receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Duke Energy Carolinas is not aware of any uncertainties regarding the legal sufficiency of insurance claims. Duke Energy Carolinas believes the insurance recovery asset is probable of recovery as the insurance carrier continues to have a strong financial strength rating.

The Duke Energy Registrants also have credit risk exposure through issuance of performance guarantees, letters of credit and surety bonds on behalf of less than wholly owned entities and third parties. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued these guarantees, it is possible that they could be required to perform under these guarantee obligations in the event the obligor under the guarantee fails to perform. Where the Duke Energy Registrants have issued guarantees related to assets or operations that have been disposed of via sale, they attempt to secure indemnification from the buyer against all future performance obligations under the guarantees. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Guarantees and Indemnifications,” for further information on guarantees issued by the Duke Energy Registrants. 

Based on the Duke Energy Registrants’ policies for managing credit risk, their exposures and their credit and other reserves, the Duke Energy Registrants do not currently anticipate a materially adverse effect on their consolidated financial position or results of operations as a result of non-performance by any counterparty. 

Marketable Securities Price Risk

As described further in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” Duke Energy invests in debt and equity securities as part of various investment portfolios to fund certain obligations. The vast majority of investments in equity securities are within the NDTF and assets of the various pension and other post-retirement benefit plans.

Pension Plan Assets

Duke Energy maintains investments to facilitate funding the costs of providing non-contributory defined benefit retirement and other post-retirement benefit plans. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. The equity securities held in these pension plans are diversified to achieve broad market participation and reduce the impact of any single investment, sector or geographic region. Duke Energy has established asset allocation targets for its pension plan holdings, which take into consideration the investment objectives and the risk profile with respect to the trust in which the assets are held. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Employee Benefit Plans” for additional information regarding investment strategy of pension plan assets.

A significant decline in the value of plan asset holdings could require Duke Energy to increase funding of its pension plans in future periods, which could adversely affect cash flows in those periods. Additionally, a decline in the fair value of plan assets, absent additional cash contributions to the plan, could increase the amount of pension cost required to be recorded in future periods, which could adversely affect Duke Energy’s results of operations in those periods.

Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Funds

As required by the NRC, NCUC, PSCSC and the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC), subsidiaries of Duke Energy maintain trust funds to fund the costs of nuclear decommissioning. As of December 31, 2016, these funds were invested primarily in domestic and international equity securities, debt securities, cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Per the NRC, Internal Revenue Code, NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC requirements, these funds may be used only for activities related to nuclear decommissioning. These investments are exposed to price fluctuations in equity markets and changes in interest rates. Duke Energy actively monitors its portfolios by benchmarking the performance of its investments against certain indices and by maintaining, and periodically reviewing, target allocation percentages for various asset classes. 

Accounting for nuclear decommissioning recognizes that costs are recovered through retail and wholesale rates; therefore, fluctuations in investment prices do not materially affect the Consolidated Statements of Operations, as changes in the fair value of these investments are primarily deferred as regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities pursuant to Orders by the NCUC, PSCSC, FPSC and FERC. Earnings or losses of the fund will ultimately impact the amount of costs recovered through retail and wholesale rates. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations” for additional information regarding nuclear decommissioning costs. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” for additional information regarding NDTF assets.

78

PART II

OTHER MATTERS

Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

The Duke Energy Registrants’ ratios of earnings to fixed charges, as calculated using SEC guidelines, are included in the table below.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Environmental Regulations

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to federal, state and local regulations regarding air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. These regulations can be changed from time to time and result in new obligations of the Duke Energy Registrants.

The following sections outline various proposed and recently enacted regulations that may impact the Duke Energy Registrants. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," for further information regarding potential plant retirements and regulatory filings related to the Duke Energy Registrants.

Coal Combustion Residuals

In April 2015, the EPA published a rule to regulate the disposal of CCR from electric utilities as solid waste. The federal regulation classifies CCR as nonhazardous waste and allows for beneficial use of CCR with some restrictions. The regulation applies to all new and existing landfills, new and existing surface impoundments receiving CCR and existing surface impoundments that are no longer receiving CCR but contain liquid located at stations currently generating electricity (regardless of fuel source). The rule establishes requirements regarding landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring, protection and remedial procedures and other operational and reporting procedures to ensure the safe disposal and management of CCR. As a result of the EPA rule, Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana recorded additional ARO amounts during 2015. Various industry and environmental parties have appealed the EPA's CCR rule in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (D.C. Circuit Court). On April 18, 2016, the EPA filed a motion with the federal court to settle five issues raised in litigation. On June 14, 2016, the court approved the motion with respect to all of those issues. A decision by the court on the remaining issues is expected in the second quarter of 2017. Duke Energy does not expect a material impact from the settlement or that it will result in additional ARO adjustments. 

In addition to the requirements of the federal CCR regulation, CCR landfills and surface impoundments will continue to be independently regulated by most states. Cost recovery for future expenditures will be pursued through the normal ratemaking process with federal and state utility commissions and via wholesale contracts, which permit recovery of necessary and prudently incurred costs associated with Duke Energy’s regulated operations. For more information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Asset Retirement Obligations." 

Coal Ash Management Act of 2014

AROs recorded on the Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2016, and December 31, 2015, include the legal obligation for closure of coal ash basins and the disposal of related ash as a result of the Coal Ash Act, the EPA CCR rule and other agreements. In January 2016, the NCDEQ published draft risk classifications for sites not specifically delineated by the Coal Ash Act as high risk. These risk rankings were generally determined based on three primary criteria: structural integrity of the impoundments and impacts to surface water and to groundwater. The NCDEQ's draft proposed classifications categorized 12 basins at four sites as intermediate risk and four basins at three sites as low risk. The NCDEQ's draft proposed classifications also categorized nine basins at six sites as “low-to-intermediate” risk, thereby not assigning a definitive risk ranking at that time. On May 18, 2016, the NCDEQ issued new proposed risk classifications, proposing to rank all originally proposed low risk and "low-to-intermediate" risk sites as intermediate.

On July 14, 2016, the former governor of North Carolina signed legislation which amended the Coal Ash Act and required Duke Energy to undertake dam improvement projects and to provide access to a permanent alternative drinking water source to certain residents within a half mile of coal ash basin compliance boundaries and to certain other potentially impacted residents. The new legislation also ranks basins at the H.F. Lee, Cape Fear and Weatherspoon stations as intermediate risk consistent with Duke Energy's previously announced plans to excavate those basins. These specific intermediate risk basins require closure through excavation including a combination of transferring ash to an appropriate engineered landfill or conversion of the ash for beneficial use. Closure of these specific intermediate risk basins is required to be completed no later than August 1, 2028. Upon satisfactory completion of the dam improvement projects and installation of alternative drinking water sources by October 15, 2018, the legislation requires the NCDEQ to reclassify sites proposed as intermediate risk, excluding H.F. Lee, Cape Fear and Weatherspoon, as low risk. In January 2017, NCDEQ issued preliminary approval of Duke Energy's plans for the alternative water sources.

79

PART II

Per the Coal Ash Act, final proposed classifications were to be subject to Coal Ash Management Commission (Coal Ash Commission) approval. In March 2016, the Coal Ash Commission created by the Coal Ash Act was disbanded by the former governor of North Carolina based on a North Carolina Supreme Court ruling regarding the constitutionality of the body. The July 2016 legislation eliminates the Coal Ash Commission and transfers responsibility for ash basin closure oversight to the NCDEQ. 

Additionally, the July 2016 legislation requires the installation and operation of three large-scale coal ash beneficiation projects which are expected to produce reprocessed ash for use in the concrete industry. Closure of basins at sites with these beneficiation projects are required to be completed no later than December 31, 2029. On October 5, 2016, Duke Energy announced Buck Steam Station as a first location for one of the beneficiation projects. On December 13, 2016, Duke Energy announced H.F. Lee as the second location. Duke Energy intends to announce the third location by July 1, 2017.

The Coal Ash Act includes a variance procedure for compliance deadlines and other issues surrounding the management of CCR and CCR surface impoundments. 

Provisions of the Coal Ash Act prohibit cost recovery in customer rates for unlawful discharge of ash impoundment waters occurring after January 1, 2014. The Coal Ash Act leaves the decision on cost recovery determinations related to closure of ash impoundments to the normal ratemaking processes before utility regulatory commissions. Consistent with the requirements of the Coal Ash Act, Duke Energy has submitted comprehensive site assessments and groundwater corrective plans to NCDEQ and will submit to NCDEQ site-specific coal ash impoundment closure plans in advance of closure. These plans and all associated permits must be approved by NCDEQ before closure work can begin.

For further information on AROs, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations.”

Mercury and Air Toxics Standards

The final Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) rule was issued on February 16, 2012. The rule established emission limits for hazardous air pollutants from new and existing coal-fired and oil-fired steam electric generating units (EGUs). The rule required sources to comply with emission limits by April 16, 2015, or by April 16, 2016, with approved extension. Strategies to achieve compliance included installation of new air emission control equipment, development of monitoring processes, fuel switching and acceleration of retirement for some coal-fired EGUs. All of Duke Energy's coal-fired units are in compliance with the emission limits, work practices standards and other requirements of the MATS rule. 

Clean Water Act 316(b)

The EPA published the final 316(b) cooling water intake structure rule on August 15, 2014, with an effective date of October 14, 2014. The rule applies to 26 of the electric generating facilities the Duke Energy Registrants own and operate. The rule allows for several options to demonstrate compliance and provides flexibility to the state environmental permitting agencies to make determinations on controls, if any, that will be required for cooling water intake structures. Any required intake structure modifications and/or retrofits are expected to be installed in the 2019 to 2022 time frame. Petitions challenging the rule have been filed by several groups. It is unknown when the courts will rule on the petitions. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

Steam Electric Effluent Limitations Guidelines

On January 4, 2016, the final Steam Electric Effluent Limitations Guidelines (ELG) rule became effective. The rule establishes new requirements for wastewater streams associated with steam electric power generation and includes more stringent controls for any new coal plants that may be built in the future. Affected facilities must comply between 2018 and 2023, depending on timing of new Clean Water Act (CWA) permits. Most, if not all, of the steam electric generating facilities the Duke Energy Registrants own are likely affected sources. The Duke Energy Registrants are well-positioned to meet the majority of the requirements of the rule due to current efforts to convert to dry ash handling. Petitions challenging the rule have been filed by several groups. On March 16, 2015, Duke Energy Indiana filed its own legal challenge to the rule with the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals specific to the ELG for wastewater associated rule focused on the limits imposed on integrated gas combined-cycle facilities. All challenges to the rule have been consolidated in the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. Opening briefs were submitted on December 5, 2016. Briefing concludes on June 5, 2017, and oral argument has not been scheduled. It is unknown when the courts will rule on the petitions. The Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

Estimated Cost and Impacts of Rulemakings

Duke Energy will incur capital expenditures to comply with the environmental regulations and rules discussed above. The following table provides five-year estimated costs, excluding AFUDC, of new control equipment that may need to be installed on existing power plants primarily to comply with the Coal Ash Act requirements for conversion to dry disposal of bottom ash and fly ash, CWA 316(b) and ELGs through December 31, 2021. The table excludes ash basin closure costs recorded in Asset retirement obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For more information related to AROs, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

80

PART II

The Duke Energy Registrants also expect to incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance and other expenses, in addition to costs for replacement generation for potential coal-fired power plant retirements, as a result of these regulations. Actual compliance costs incurred may be materially different from these estimates due to reasons such as the timing and requirements of EPA regulations and the resolution of legal challenges to the rules. The Duke Energy Registrants intend to seek rate recovery of necessary and prudently incurred costs associated with regulated operations to comply with these regulations. 

Cross-State Air Pollution Rule

On December 3, 2015, the EPA proposed a rule to lower the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) Phase 2 state ozone season nitrogen oxide (NOX) emission budgets for 23 eastern states, including North Carolina, Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana. The EPA also proposed to eliminate the CSAPR Phase 2 ozone season state NOX budgets for Florida and South Carolina. On September 7, 2016, the EPA finalized a CSAPR update rule that reduces the CSAPR Phase 2 state ozone season NOX emission budgets for 22 eastern states, including Ohio, Kentucky and Indiana. In the final CSAPR update rule, the EPA removed Florida, South Carolina and North Carolina from the ozone season NOx program. Beginning in 2017, Duke Energy Registrants in these states will not be subject to any CSAPR ozone season NOx emission limitations. For the states that remain in the program, the reduced state ozone season NOx emission budgets will take effect on May 1, 2017. In Kentucky and Indiana, where Duke Energy Registrants own and operate coal-fired EGUs subject to the final rule requirements, potential near-term responses could include changing unit dispatch to run certain generating units less frequently and/or purchasing NOx allowances from the trading market. Longer term, upgrading the performance of existing NOx controls is an option. 

Carbon Pollution Standards for New, Modified and Reconstructed Power Plants

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published a final rule in the Federal Register establishing carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions limits for new, modified and reconstructed power plants. The requirements for new plants do not apply to any facility that Duke Energy currently has in operation, but would apply to plants that commenced construction after January 8, 2014. The EPA set an emissions standard for coal units of 1,400 pounds of CO2 per gross MWh, which would require the application of partial carbon capture and storage (CCS) technology for a coal unit to be able to meet the limit. Utility-scale CCS is not currently a demonstrated and commercially available technology for coal-fired EGUs, and therefore the final standard effectively prevents the development of new coal-fired generation. The EPA set a final standard of 1,000 pounds of CO2 per gross MWh for new natural gas combined-cycle units. Petitions challenging the rule have been filed by several groups. Final briefs in the case were due February 6, 2017. Oral arguments are scheduled for April 2017. The Duke Energy Registrants do not expect the impacts of the final standards will be material to Duke Energy's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

Clean Power Plan 

On October 23, 2015, the EPA published in the Federal Register the final Clean Power Plan (CPP) rule that regulates CO2 emissions from existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. The CPP established CO2 emission rates and mass cap goals that apply to existing fossil fuel-fired EGUs. Petitions challenging the rule have been filed by several groups and on February 9, 2016, the Supreme Court issued a stay of the final CPP rule, halting implementation of the CPP until legal challenges are resolved. States in which the Duke Energy Registrants operate have suspended work on the CPP in response to the stay. Oral arguments before 10 of the 11 judges on D.C. Circuit Court were heard on September 27, 2016. The court is expected to decide the case in early 2017. 

Compliance with CPP could cause the industry to replace coal-fired generation with natural gas and renewables. Costs to operate coal-fired generation plants continue to grow due to increasing environmental compliance requirements, including ash management costs unrelated to CPP, which may result in the retirement of coal-fired generation plants earlier than the current end of useful lives. If the CPP is ultimately upheld by the courts and implementation goes forward, the Duke Energy Registrants could incur increased fuel, purchased power, operation and maintenance and other costs for replacement generation as a result of this rule. Due to the uncertainties related to the implementation of the CPP, the Duke Energy Registrants cannot predict the outcome of these matters.

Global Climate Change

The Duke Energy Registrants’ greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consist primarily of CO2 and result primarily from operating a fleet of coal-fired power plants. In 2016, the Duke Energy Registrants’ power plants emitted approximately 107 million tons of CO2. Future CO2 emissions will be influenced by variables that include compliance with new or existing regulations, economic conditions that affect electricity demand and the technologies deployed to generate the electricity necessary to meet the customer demand.

The Duke Energy Registrants have taken actions that have resulted in a reduction of CO2 emissions over time. Actions have included the retirement of 47 coal-fired EGUs with a combined generating capacity of 5,425 MW. Much of that capacity has been replaced with state-of-the-art highly efficient natural gas-fired generation that produces far fewer CO2 emissions per unit of electricity generated. Between 2005 and 2016, the Duke Energy Registrants have collectively lowered the CO2 emissions from their electricity generation by approximately 30 percent, which lowers the exposure to any future mandatory CO2 emission reduction requirements or carbon tax, whether as a result of federal legislation, the final CPP regulation or other as yet unknown emission reduction requirement. Under any future scenario involving mandatory CO2 limitations, the Duke Energy Registrants would plan to seek recovery of their compliance costs through appropriate regulatory mechanisms.

The Duke Energy Registrants recognize certain groups associate severe weather events with increasing levels of GHGs in the atmosphere and forecast the possibility these weather events could have a material impact on future results of operations should they occur more frequently and with greater severity. However, the uncertain nature of potential changes in extreme weather events (such as increased frequency, duration and severity), the long period of time over which any potential changes might take place and the inability to predict potential changes with any degree of accuracy, make estimating any potential future financial risk to the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations impossible. The Duke Energy Registrants have historically planned and prepared for extreme weather events, such as ice storms, tornadoes, hurricanes, severe thunderstorms, high winds and droughts they occasionally experience.

81

PART II

The Duke Energy Registrants routinely take steps to reduce the potential impact of severe weather events on their electric distribution systems. The Duke Energy Registrants’ electric generating facilities are designed to withstand extreme weather events without significant damage. The Duke Energy Registrants maintain an inventory of coal and oil on-site to mitigate the effects of any potential short-term disruption in fuel supply so they can continue to provide customers with an uninterrupted supply of electricity. 

Nuclear Matters

Following the events at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power station in Japan, in March 2011, the NRC formed a task force to conduct a comprehensive review of processes and regulations to determine whether the agency should make additional improvements to the nuclear regulatory system. Subsequently, the NRC targeted a set of improvements designed to enhance accident mitigation, strengthen emergency preparedness and improve efficiency of NRC programs. Pursuant to the findings of the task force, in March 2012, the NRC issued three regulatory orders requiring safety enhancements related to mitigation strategies to respond to extreme natural events resulting in the loss of power at a plant, ensuring reliable hardened containment vents and enhancing spent fuel pool instrumentation. Duke Energy is committed to compliance with all safety enhancements ordered by the NRC, and as of January 2017, Duke Energy actions on two of the three NRC orders are complete. The remaining order is focused only on enhancements to boiling water reactor designs which, for Duke Energy, is unique to Brunswick Steam Electric Plant. Actions associated with this third order will be completed by March 2019. With the NRC’s continuing review of this matter, Duke Energy cannot predict to what extent the NRC will impose additional licensing and safety-related requirements or the costs of complying with such requirements. Upon receipt of additional guidance from the NRC and a collaborative industry review, Duke Energy will be able to determine an implementation plan and associated costs. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion of applicable risk factors.

New Accounting Standards

See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” for a discussion of the impact of new accounting standards.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK