PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

DUKE ENERGY

General

Duke Energy Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, Duke Energy) is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Duke Energy operates in the United States (U.S.) and Latin America primarily through its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Duke Energy's subsidiaries include its subsidiary registrants (collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Registrants); Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC (Duke Energy Carolinas); Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy); Duke Energy Progress, Inc. (Duke Energy Progress); Duke Energy Florida, Inc. (Duke Energy Florida); Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. (Duke Energy Ohio); and Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (Duke Energy Indiana). When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its Subsidiary Registrants, which along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.

On August 21, 2014, Duke Energy entered into an agreement to sell its nonregulated Midwest generation business (Disposal Group) to Dynegy Inc. (Dynegy) for approximately $2.8 billion in cash subject to adjustments at closing for changes in working capital and capital expenditures. The Disposal Group primarily includes Duke Energy Ohio's coal-fired and gas-fired generation assets located in the Midwest region of the United States and dispatched into the PJM wholesale market. These assets earn energy and capacity revenue at market price. The Disposal Group also includes a retail sales subsidiary of Duke Energy, Duke Energy Retail Sales, LLC (Duke Energy Retail), which is certified as a Competitive Retail Electric Supplier (CRES) provider in Ohio. Duke Energy Retail serves retail electric and gas customers in Ohio with energy and provides other energy services at competitive rates. Completion of the transaction is conditioned on approval by FERC. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the second quarter of 2015. For additional information on the Midwest generation business disposition see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions, Dispositions and Sales of Other Assets."

The Duke Energy Registrants electronically file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxies and amendments to such reports.

The public may read and copy any materials the Duke Energy Registrants file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Duke Energy Registrants, including reports filed with the SEC, is available through Duke Energy’s website at http://www.duke-energy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.

Business Segments

Duke Energy conducts its operations in three business segments; Regulated Utilities, International Energy and Commercial Power. The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations are presented as Other. Duke Energy’s chief operating decision maker regularly reviews financial information about each of these business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial and geographic information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

The following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke Energy’s reportable business segments, as well as Other.

REGULATED UTILITIES

Regulated Utilities conducts operations primarily through Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Indiana, and Duke Energy Ohio. These electric and gas operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the FERC, the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (PSCSC), the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC), the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC), the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio (PUCO), and the Kentucky Public Service Commission (KPSC).

Regulated Utilities serves 7.3 million retail electric customers in six states in the Southeast and Midwest regions of the U.S. Its service area covers approximately 95,000 square miles with an estimated population of 23 million people. Regulated Utilities serves 500,000 retail natural gas customers in southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. Electricity is also sold wholesale to incorporated municipalities, electric cooperative utilities and other load-serving entities.

The following table represents the distribution of billed sales by customer class for the year ended December 31, 2014.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Primary general service sectors include health care, education, financial services, information technology and military buildings. Primary industrial sectors include textiles, chemicals, rubber and plastics, paper, food and beverage, and auto manufacturing.

9

PART I

(b)Primary general service sectors include tourism, health care and government facilities and schools. Primary industrial sectors include phosphate rock mining and processing and citrus and other food processing.

(c)Primary general service sectors include health care, education, real estate and rental leasing, financial and insurance services, water/wastewater services, and wholesale trade services. Primary industrial sectors include aerospace, primary metals, chemicals and food.

(d)Primary general service sectors include retail, financial, healthcare and education services. Primary industrial sectors include primary and fabricated metals, transportation equipment, building materials, food and beverage, stone/clay/glass, and chemicals.

The number of residential, general service and industrial customers within the Regulated Utilities service territory is expected to increase over time. However, growth in the near term has been hampered by current economic conditions. Average usage per residential customer is expected to remain flat or decline for the foreseeable future. While total industrial and general service sales increased in 2014 when compared to 2013, the growth rate was modest when compared to historical periods.

Seasonality and the Impact of Weather

Regulated Utilities’ costs and revenues are influenced by seasonal patterns. Peak sales of electricity occur during the summer and winter months, resulting in higher revenue and cash flows in these periods. By contrast, lower sales of electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant maintenance. Peak gas sales occur during the winter months. Residential and general service customers are most impacted by weather. Estimated weather impacts are based on actual current period weather compared to normal weather conditions. Normal weather conditions are defined as the long-term average of actual historical weather conditions.

The estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the number of customers, temperature variances from a normal condition and customers’ historic usage levels and patterns. The methodology used to estimate the impact of weather does not and cannot consider all variables that may impact customer response to weather conditions such as humidity and relative temperature changes. The precision of this estimate may also be impacted by applying long-term weather trends to shorter-term periods.

Degree-day data are used to estimate energy required to maintain comfortable indoor temperatures based on each day’s average temperature. Heating-degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent the average daily temperature falls below a base temperature. Cooling-degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent the average daily temperature rises above the base temperature. Each degree of temperature below the base temperature counts as one heating-degree day and each degree of temperature above the base temperature counts as one cooling-degree day.

Competition

Retail

Regulated Utilities’ businesses operate as the sole supplier of electricity within their service territories, with the exception of Ohio, which has a competitive electricity supply market for generation service. Regulated Utilities owns and operates facilities necessary to transmit and distribute electricity and, except in Ohio, to generate electricity. Services are priced by state commission approved rates designed to include the costs of providing these services and a reasonable return on invested capital. This regulatory policy is intended to provide safe and reliable electricity at fair prices. Competition in the regulated electric distribution business is primarily from on-site generation of industrial customers and distributed generation, such as rooftop solar, at residential, general service and/or industrial customer sites.

Regulated Utilities is not aware of any proposed legislation in any jurisdiction that would give its retail customers the right to choose their electricity provider or otherwise restructure or deregulate the electric industry.

Although there is no pending legislation at this time, if the retail jurisdictions served by Regulated Utilities become subject to deregulation, the recovery of stranded costs could become a significant consideration. Stranded costs primarily include the generation assets of Regulated Utilities whose value in a competitive marketplace may be less than their current book value, as well as above-market purchased power commitments from qualifying facilities (QFs). The Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (PURPA) established a new class of generating facilities as QFs, typically small power production facilities that generate power within a utility company’s service territory for which the utility companies are legally obligated to purchase the energy at an avoided cost rate. Thus far, all states that have passed restructuring legislation have provided for the opportunity to recover a substantial portion of stranded costs.

Regulated Utilities’ largest stranded cost exposure is primarily related to Duke Energy Florida’s purchased power commitments with QFs, under which it has future minimum expected capacity payments through 2025 of $2.2 billion. Duke Energy Florida was obligated to enter into these contracts under provisions of PURPA. Duke Energy Florida continues to seek ways to address the impact of escalating payments under these contracts. However, the FPSC allows full recovery of the retail portion of the cost of power purchased from QFs. For additional information related to these purchased power commitments, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.” 

In Ohio, Regulated Utilities conducts competitive auctions for electricity supply. The cost of energy purchased through these auctions is recovered from retail customers. Regulated Utilities earns retail margin in Ohio on the transmission and distribution of electricity only and not on the cost of the underlying energy.

Wholesale

Regulated Utilities competes with other utilities and merchant generators for bulk power sales, sales to municipalities and cooperatives, and wholesale transactions. The principal factors in competing for these sales are price, availability of capacity and power, and reliability of service. Prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and fuel costs.

Increased competition in the wholesale electric utility industry and the availability of transmission access could affect Regulated Utilities’ load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. Wholesale energy sales will be impacted by the extent to which additional generation is available to sell to the wholesale market and the ability of Regulated Utilities to attract new customers and to retain existing customers.

10

PART I

Energy Capacity and Resources

Regulated Utilities owns approximately 50,000 megawatts (MW) of generation capacity. For additional information on Regulated Utilities’ generation facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.”

Energy and capacity are also supplied through contracts with other generators and purchased on the open market. Factors that could cause Regulated Utilities to purchase power for its customers include generating plant outages, extreme weather conditions, generation reliability, growth, and price. Regulated Utilities has interconnections and arrangements with its neighboring utilities to facilitate planning, emergency assistance, sale and purchase of capacity and energy, and reliability of power supply.

Regulated Utilities’ generation portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost to meet its obligation to serve retail customers. All options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements.

Recently Completed Generation Projects

The additional capacity from recently completed generation projects allowed Regulated Utilities to retire or plan to retire older, less efficient capacity. The following table summarizes the generation projects constructed and placed in service during the past three years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Potential Plant Retirements

The Subsidiary Registrants periodically file Integrated Resource Plans (IRP) with state regulatory commissions. The IRPs provide a view of forecasted energy needs over a long term (10 to 20 years) and options being considered to meet those needs. Recent IRPs filed by the Subsidiary Registrants included planning assumptions to potentially retire certain coal-fired generating facilities earlier than their current estimated useful lives. These facilities do not have the requisite emission control equipment, primarily to meet United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations recently approved or proposed. These facilities total approximately 1,704 MW at three sites. Duke Energy continues to evaluate the potential need to retire these coal-fired generating facilities earlier than the current estimated useful lives, and plans to seek regulatory recovery for amounts that would not be otherwise recovered when any of these assets are retired. For additional information related to potential plant retirements see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

Sources of Electricity

Regulated Utilities relies principally on coal, natural gas and nuclear fuel for its generation of electricity. The following table lists sources of electricity and fuel costs for the three years ended December 31, 2014.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Statistics include Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida beginning July 2, 2012. 

(b)Statistics related to all fuels reflect Regulated Utilities' ownership interest in jointly owned generation facilities. 

(c)Generating figures are net of output required to replenish pumped storage facilities during off-peak periods. 

(d)Purchased power includes renewable energy purchases. 

(e)Includes the effect of the Joint Dispatch Agreement (JDA) and Mitigation sales. Mitigation sales are excluded from the Regulated Utilities segment. 

11

PART I

Coal

Regulated Utilities meets its coal demand through a portfolio of long-term purchase contracts and short-term spot market purchase agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under long-term contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. Regulated Utilities uses spot-market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by long-term contracts. Expiration dates for its long-term contracts, which have various price adjustment provisions and market re-openers, range from 2015 to 2016 for Duke Energy Carolinas, 2015 to 2018 for Duke Energy Progress, 2015 to 2016 for Duke Energy Florida, and 2015 to 2025 for Duke Energy Indiana. Regulated Utilities expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with other suppliers as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. Coal purchased for the Carolinas is primarily produced from mines in Central Appalachia, Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin. Coal purchased for Florida is primarily produced from mines in Central Appalachia and the Illinois Basin. Coal purchased for Indiana is primarily produced in Indiana and Illinois. Regulated Utilities has an adequate supply of coal under contract to fuel its projected 2015 operations and a significant portion of supply to fuel its projected 2016 operations. Current coal inventory levels for Regulated Utilities are at adequate levels and are expected to remain at adequate levels for the remainder of 2015. Changing natural gas prices continue to influence the level of coal generation. 

The current average sulfur content of coal purchased by Regulated Utilities is between 1.5 percent and 2 percent for Duke Energy Carolinas, between 1.5 percent and 2 percent for Duke Energy Progress, between 1 percent and 2.5 percent for Duke Energy Florida, and between 2 percent and 3 percent for Duke Energy Indiana. Regulated Utilities’ environmental controls, in combination with the use of sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission allowances, enable Regulated Utilities to satisfy current SO2 emission limitations for its existing facilities.

Nuclear

The industrial processes for producing nuclear generating fuel generally involve the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, and services to convert, enrich, and fabricate fuel assemblies.

Regulated Utilities has contracted for uranium materials and services to fuel its nuclear reactors. Uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services are primarily met through a diversified portfolio of long-term supply contracts. The contracts are diversified by supplier, country of origin and pricing. Regulated Utilities staggers its contracting so that its portfolio of long-term contracts covers the majority of its fuel requirements in the near term and decreasing portions of its fuel requirements over time thereafter. Near-term requirements not met by long-term supply contracts have been and are expected to be fulfilled with spot market purchases. Due to the technical complexities of changing suppliers of fuel fabrication services, Regulated Utilities generally sources these services to a single domestic supplier on a plant-by-plant basis using multiyear contracts.

Regulated Utilities has entered into fuel contracts that cover 100 percent of its uranium concentrates, conversion services, and enrichment services requirements through at least 2015 and cover fabrication services requirements for these plants through at least 2018. For future requirements not already covered under long-term contracts, Regulated Utilities believes it will be able to renew contracts as they expire, or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services.

Gas and Oil

Natural gas and oil supply for Regulated Utilities’ generation fleet is purchased under term and spot contracts from various suppliers. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida and Duke Energy Indiana use derivative instruments to limit a portion of their exposure to price fluctuations for natural gas. Regulated Utilities has certain dual-fuel generating facilities that can operate with both natural gas and oil. The cost of Regulated Utilities’ natural gas and oil is either at a fixed price or determined by market prices as reported in certain industry publications. Regulated Utilities believes it has access to an adequate supply of gas and oil for the reasonably foreseeable future. Regulated Utilities’ natural gas transportation for its gas generation is purchased under long-term firm transportation contracts with interstate and intrastate pipelines. Regulated Utilities may also purchase additional shorter-term transportation for its load requirements during peak periods. The Regulated Utilities natural gas plants are served by several supply zones and multiple pipelines.

Purchased Power

Regulated Utilities purchased approximately 14.3 million megawatt-hours (MWh), 11.7 million MWh and 19.8 million MWh of its system energy requirements during 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively, under purchase obligations and leases and had 4,500 and 3,800 MW of firm purchased capacity under contract during 2014 and 2013, respectively. These amounts include MWh for Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida for all periods presented. These agreements include amounts contracted with certain QFs. Regulated Utilities may need to acquire additional purchased power capacity in the future to accommodate a portion of its system load needs. Regulated Utilities believes it can obtain adequate purchased power to meet these needs. However, during periods of high demand, the price and availability of purchased power may be significantly affected.

Gas for Retail Distribution

Regulated Utilities is responsible for the purchase and the subsequent delivery of natural gas to retail customers in its Ohio and Kentucky service territories. Regulated Utilities’ natural gas procurement strategy is to buy firm natural gas supplies and firm interstate pipeline transportation capacity during the winter season and during the non-heating season through a combination of firm supply and transportation capacity along with spot supply and interruptible transportation capacity. This strategy allows Regulated Utilities to assure reliable natural gas supply for its non-curtailable customers during peak winter conditions and provides Regulated Utilities the flexibility to reduce its contract commitments if firm customers choose alternate gas. In 2014, firm supply purchase commitment agreements provided approximately 97 percent of the natural gas supply.

Inventory

Generation of electricity is capital intensive. Regulated Utilities must maintain an adequate stock of fuel and materials and supplies in order to ensure continuous operation of generating facilities and reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31, 2014, the inventory balance for Regulated Utilities was $3,348 million. For additional information on inventory see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”

12

PART I

North Carolina Ash Basin Management

On February 2, 2014, a break in a stormwater pipe beneath an ash basin at Duke Energy Carolinas’ retired Dan River steam station caused a release of ash basin water and ash into the Dan River. On February 8, 2014, a permanent plug was installed in the stormwater pipe, stopping the release of materials into the river. Duke Energy Carolinas estimates 30,000 to 39,000 tons of ash and 24 million to 27 million gallons of basin water were released into the river during the incident. Duke Energy Carolinas incurred approximately $24 million of repairs and remediation expense related to this incident during the year ended December 31, 2014. Duke Energy Carolinas will not seek recovery of these costs from customers. In July 2014, Duke Energy completed remediation work identified by the EPA and continues to cooperate with the EPA's civil enforcement process. 

As a result of separate Memoranda of Plea Agreement (Plea Agreements) entered into by Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress in connection with a criminal investigation related to the Dan River ash basin release and the management of coal ash basins at the 14 plants in North Carolina with coal ash basins, Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress recognized expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 of $72 million and $30 million, respectively. The Plea Agreements are subject to the approval of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina and, if approved, will end the grand jury investigation related to the Dan River ash basin release and the management of coal ash basins at the 14 plants in North Carolina with coal ash basins. 

The Plea Agreements do not cover pending civil claims related to the Dan River coal ash release and operations at other North Carolina facilities with ash basins. Duke Energy Corporation will continue to defend against remaining civil actions associated with these matters. Other costs related to the Dan River release including state or federal civil enforcement proceedings, future regulatory directives, natural resources damages, pending litigation, future claims or litigation, and long-term environmental impact costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time.

For additional information on the North Carolina Ash Basin Grand Jury Investigation and Plea Agreements, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Commitments and Contingencies." 

Nuclear Matters

Regulated Utilities owns, wholly or partially, 12 nuclear reactors located at seven stations. Nuclear insurance includes: nuclear liability coverage; property, decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and replacement power expense coverage. Joint owners reimburse Regulated Utilities for certain expenses associated with nuclear insurance in accordance with joint owner agreements. The Price-Anderson Act requires plant owners to provide for public nuclear liability claims resulting from nuclear incidents to the maximum total financial protection liability, which currently is $13.6 billion. For additional information on nuclear insurance see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”

Regulated Utilities has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and decommission and decontaminate each plant safely. The NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC require Regulated Utilities to update their cost estimates for decommissioning their nuclear plants every five years.

The following table summarizes the fair value of nuclear decommissioning trust fund (NDTF) balances and cost study results for Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Represents cost per the most recent site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies, including costs to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination. Amounts are in dollars of the year of cost study.

(b)Includes the Subsidiary Registrants' ownership interest in jointly owned reactors. Other joint owners are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their interest in the reactors.

The NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC have allowed Regulated Utilities’ to recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail rates over the expected remaining service periods of their nuclear stations. Regulated Utilities believes the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with the existing fund balance and expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning. For additional information see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations.”

The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (as amended) (NWPA) provides the framework for development by the federal government of interim storage and permanent disposal facilities for high-level radioactive waste materials. The NWPA promotes increased usage of interim storage of spent nuclear fuel at existing nuclear plants. Regulated Utilities will continue to maximize the use of spent fuel storage capability within its own facilities for as long as feasible.

Under federal law, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is responsible for the selection and construction of a facility for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. Delays have occurred in the DOE’s proposed permanent repository to be located at Yucca Mountain, Nevada.

13

PART I

Until the DOE begins to accept the spent nuclear fuel, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida will continue to safely manage their spent nuclear fuel. With certain modifications and additional approvals by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), including the expansion of on-site dry cask storage facilities, spent nuclear fuel storage facilities will be sufficient to provide storage space for spent fuel through the expiration of the operating licenses, including any license renewals, for all sites except Shearon Harris Nuclear Station (Harris) and Crystal River Unit 3 Nuclear Station (Crystal River Unit 3). Under current regulatory guidelines, Harris has sufficient storage capacity in its spent fuel pools through the expiration of its renewed operating license. Crystal River Unit 3 was retired in 2013, with plans to place the facility in SAFSTOR prior to final decommissioning. An independent spent fuel storage installation will be installed to accommodate storage of all spent nuclear fuel until the DOE accepts the spent nuclear fuel. 

The nuclear power industry faces uncertainties with respect to the cost and long-term availability of disposal sites for spent nuclear fuel and other radioactive waste, compliance with changing regulatory requirements, capital outlays for modifications and new plant construction, the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning plants at the end of their licensed lives, and requirements relating to nuclear insurance. Nuclear units are periodically removed from service to accommodate normal refueling and maintenance outages, repairs, uprates and certain other modifications.

Regulated Utilities is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC for the design, construction and operation of its nuclear generating facilities. Nuclear operating licenses are potentially subject to extension. The following table includes the current expiration of nuclear operating licenses.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Duke Energy Florida has requested the NRC to terminate the Crystal River Unit 3 operating license as Crystal River Unit 3 permanently ceased operation in February 2013. For additional information on decommissioning activity and transition to SAFSTOR, see Note 4 "Regulatory Matters."

The NRC issues orders with regard to security at nuclear plants in response to new or emerging threats. The most recent orders include additional restrictions on nuclear plant access, increased security measures at nuclear facilities and closer coordination with intelligence, military, law enforcement and emergency response functions at the federal, state and local levels. As the NRC, other governmental entities and the industry continue to consider security issues, it is possible that more extensive security plans could be required.

Regulation

State

The NCUC, PSCSC, FPSC, PUCO, IURC and KPSC (collectively, the state utility commissions) approve rates for retail electric and gas service within their respective states. The state utility commissions, to varying degrees, have authority over the construction and operation of Regulated Utilities’ generating facilities. Certificates of Public Convenience and Necessity issued by the state utility commissions, as applicable, authorize Regulated Utilities to construct and operate its electric facilities, and to sell electricity to retail and wholesale customers. Prior approval from the relevant state utility commission is required for Regulated Utilities to issue securities. The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility to collect revenues equal to its cost of providing service plus earn a reasonable rate of return on its invested capital, including equity.

Each of the state utility commissions allow recovery of certain costs through various cost-recovery clauses to the extent the respective commission determines in periodic hearings that such costs, including any past over or under-recovered costs, are prudent. The clauses are in addition to approved base rates.

Fuel, fuel-related costs and certain purchased power costs are eligible for recovery by Regulated Utilities. Regulated Utilities uses coal, hydroelectric, natural gas, oil and nuclear fuel to generate electricity, thereby maintaining a diverse fuel mix that helps mitigate the impact of cost increases in any one fuel. Due to the associated regulatory treatment and the method allowed for recovery, changes in fuel costs from year to year have no material impact on operating results of Regulated Utilities, unless a commission finds a portion of such costs to have been imprudent. However, delays between the expenditure for fuel costs and recovery from customers can adversely impact the timing of cash flows of Regulated Utilities.

14

PART I

The following table summarizes base rate cases approved and effective in the past three years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Rates increase over a two or three year period as approved by the NCUC and PSCSC. Annual increase amounts represent the total increase once effective.

(b)Terms of this rate case include (i) recognition of nuclear outage expenses over the refueling cycle rather than when the outage occurs, (ii) a $10 million shareholder contribution to agencies providing energy assistance to low-income customers, (iii) an annual reduction in the regulatory liability for costs of removal of $30 million for each of the first two years, and (iv) no additional base rate increases to be effective before September 2015.

(c)Terms of this rate case include (i) recognition of nuclear outage expenses over the refueling cycle rather than when the outage occurs, (ii) an approximate $4 million shareholder contribution to agencies providing energy assistance to low-income customers and for economic development, (iii) a reduction in the regulatory liability for costs of removal of $45 million for the first year, and (iv) no additional base rate increases to be effective before September 2015.

(d)Terms of this rate case include (i) recognition of nuclear outage expenses over the refueling cycle rather than when the outage occurs, (ii) a $20 million shareholder contribution to agencies providing energy assistance to low-income customers, and (iii) a reduction in the regulatory liability for costs of removal of $20 million for the first year.

(e)Although the PUCO approved no increase in base rates, more than half of the revenue request was approved to be recovered in various riders, including recovery of costs related to former manufactured gas plants (MGP). Recovery of $56 million of MGP costs via a rider was approved in November 2013. The rider became effective in March 2014, was suspended in June 2014 and reinstated in January 2015. For additional information on MGP recovery see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

(f)Terms of this settlement include (i) no additional base rate increases until 2019, (ii) partial recovery of Crystal River Unit 3 beginning in 2014, and (iii) full recovery of Crystal River Unit 3, not to exceed $1,466 million, plus the cost to build a dry cask storage facility, beginning no later than 2017.

(g)Terms of this settlement include the removal of Crystal River Unit 3 assets from rate base. 

(h)Capital structure includes deferred income tax, customer deposits and investment tax credits.

For more information on rate matters and other regulatory proceedings, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”

Federal

The FERC approves Regulated Utilities’ cost-based rates for electric sales to certain wholesale customers, as well as sales of transmission service. Regulations of FERC and the state utility commissions govern access to regulated electric and gas customers and other data by nonregulated entities and services provided between regulated and nonregulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of nonregulated affiliates with Regulated Utilities.

Regional Transmission Organizations (RTO). PJM Interconnection, LLC (PJM) and Midcontinent Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO) are the Independent System Operators (ISO) and FERC-approved RTOs for the regions in which Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana operate. PJM and MISO operate energy, capacity and other markets, and, through central dispatch, control the day-to-day operations of bulk power systems.

Duke Energy Ohio is a member of PJM and Duke Energy Indiana is a member of MISO. Transmission owners in these RTOs have turned over control of their transmission facilities, and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of the RTOs. Transmission service is provided on a region-wide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the RTO members at rates based on the costs of transmission service.

Environmental. Regulated Utilities is subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental agencies. For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section.

See “Other Matters” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and other EPA regulations under development and the potential impacts such legislation and regulation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.

15

PART I

INTERNATIONAL ENERGY

International Energy principally operates and manages power generation facilities and engages in sales and marketing of electric power, natural gas, and natural gas liquids outside the U.S. Its activities principally target power generation in Latin America. Additionally, International Energy owns a 25 percent interest in National Methanol Company (NMC), a large regional producer of methanol and methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE) located in Saudi Arabia. International Energy’s economic ownership interest will decrease to 17.5 percent upon successful startup of NMC's polyacetal production facility, which is expected to occur after June 2016. International Energy will retain 25 percent of the board representation and voting rights of NMC. The investment in NMC is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.

International Energy’s customers include retail distributors, electric utilities, independent power producers, marketers, and industrial and commercial companies. International Energy’s current strategy is focused on optimizing the value of its current Latin American portfolio and expanding the portfolio through investment in generation opportunities in Latin America. 

During 2014, Duke Energy performed a strategic review of international Energy to evaluate a wide range of options and opportunities for growth of the business, including strategies for utilization of off-shore cash. Duke Energy determined it is in the shareholders' best interest, at the present time, to continue to own, operate and create value through portfolio optimization and efficiency of International Energy operations. 

Duke Energy also declared a taxable dividend of historical foreign earnings in the form of notes payable that will result in the repatriation of approximately $2.7 billion in cash held and expected to be generated by International Energy over a period of up to eight years. Duke Energy’s intention is to indefinitely reinvest prospective undistributed foreign earnings generated by International Energy. For additional information see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Income Taxes,” for additional information.

Competition and Regulation

International Energy’s sales and marketing of electric power and natural gas competes directly with other generators and marketers serving its market areas. Competitors are country and region-specific but include government-owned electric generating companies, local distribution companies with self-generation capability and other privately owned electric generating and marketing companies. The principal elements of competition are price and availability, terms of service, flexibility and reliability of service.

A high percentage of International Energy’s portfolio consists of baseload hydroelectric generation facilities, which compete with other forms of electric generation available to International Energy’s customers and end-users, including natural gas and fuel oils. Economic activity, conservation, legislation, governmental regulations, weather, including rainfall, additional generation capacities and other factors affect the supply and demand for electricity in the regions served by International Energy.

International Energy’s operations are subject to both country-specific and international laws and regulations. See “Environmental Matters” in this section.

COMMERCIAL POWER

Commercial Power builds, develops, and operates wind and solar renewable generation and energy transmission projects throughout the continental U.S. Long-term contracts are generally executed with load serving entities, which, in most instances, have obligations under state-mandated renewable energy portfolio standards or similar state or local renewable energy goals. Energy and renewable energy credits generated by wind and solar projects are generally sold at contractual prices. Commercial Power also builds, develops and operates high voltage power and natural gas transmission projects. These projects are designed to increase reliability, integrate renewables generation and relieve grid congestion.

Duke Energy, Dominion Resources (Dominion), Piedmont Natural Gas and AGL Resources announced the formation of a joint venture, Atlantic Coast Pipeline, LLC, to build and own the proposed Atlantic Coast Pipeline (ACP), a 550-mile interstate natural gas pipeline. The ACP is designed to meet the needs identified in requests for proposals by Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Piedmont Natural Gas. Dominion will build and operate the ACP and will own 45 percent. Duke Energy, will own 40 percent ownership of the pipeline through its Commercial Power segment. The remaining share will be owned by Piedmont Natural Gas and AGL Resources. Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress will be customers of the pipeline and enter into 20-year transportation contracts with ACP, subject to state regulatory approval. The project will require FERC approval, which the joint venture will seek to secure by summer 2016. The estimated in-service date of the pipeline is late 2018. For additional information on the ACP, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters." 

Commercial Power has three wind projects totaling approximately 510 MW under various stages of construction in Starr County, Texas. A 200 MW project is expected to commence operation in the second quarter of 2015, a 110 MW project is expected to commence commercial operations by the end of 2015 and a third 200 MW project is expected to commence operation in the third quarter of 2016. All three projects have entered into long-term power purchase agreements with third parties.

For additional information on Commercial Power’s generation facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.”

Other Matters

Commercial Power is subject to regulation at the federal level, primarily from the FERC. Regulations of the FERC govern access to regulated electric customer and other data by nonregulated entities, services provided between regulated and nonregulated energy affiliates, and Commercial Power’s investments in transmission projects. These regulations affect the activities of Commercial Power.

For more information on rate matters, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters — Rate Related Information.”

Market Environment and Competition

The market price of commodities and services, along with the quality and reliability of services provided, drive competition in the wholesale energy business. Commercial Power’s main competitors include other nonregulated generators and wholesale power providers.

16

PART I

Sources of Electricity

Commercial Power relies on wind and solar resources for its generation of electric energy.

OTHER

The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. While it is not an operating segment, Other primarily includes unallocated corporate interest expense, certain unallocated corporate costs, Bison Insurance Company Limited (Bison), Duke Energy’s wholly owned, captive insurance subsidiary, contributions to the Duke Energy Foundation, and other investments in businesses the Company is in various stages of exiting or winding down. On December 31, 2013, Duke Energy sold its interest in DukeNet Communications Holdings, LLC (DukeNet) to Time Warner Cable, Inc. Following the repayment of existing DukeNet indebtedness at closing, transaction expenses and other purchase price adjustments, Duke Energy received cash proceeds of approximately $215 million.

Bison’s principal activities as a captive insurance entity include the indemnification of various business risks and losses, such as property, workers’ compensation and general liability of Duke Energy subsidiaries and affiliates.

Regulation

Certain entities within Other are subject to the jurisdiction of state and local agencies.

Geographic Regions

For a discussion of Duke Energy’s foreign operations see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations” and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

Employees

On December 31, 2014, Duke Energy had 28,344 employees. A total of 6,267 operating and maintenance employees were represented by unions.

Executive Officers

Melissa H. Anderson 50

 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Ms. Anderson assumed her position in January 2015. Prior to joining Duke Energy, she served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Domtar Inc. since 2010.

Lynn J. Good 55

 Vice Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Good assumed her current position in July 2013. Prior to that, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2009.

Dhiaa M. Jamil 58

 Executive Vice President and President, Regulated Generation. Mr. Jamil assumed his current position in August 2014. He served as Executive Vice President and President of Duke Energy Nuclear from March 2013 and as Chief Nuclear Officer from February 2008 to August 2014. He also served as Chief Generation Officer for Duke Energy from July 2009 to June 2012.

Julia S. Janson 50

 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary. Ms. Janson assumed her current position in December 2012. Prior to that, she had held the position of President of Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky since 2008.

Marc E. Manly 62

 Executive Vice President and President, Commercial Portfolio. Mr. Manly assumed his current position in August 2014. He served as Executive Vice President and President, Commercial Businesses from December 2012 until August 2014. He previously held the position of Chief Legal Officer from April 2006, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Cinergy, until December 2012.

A.R. Mullinax 60

 Executive Vice President, Strategic Services. Mr. Mullinax assumed his current position in August 2014. Prior to that, he had held the position of Chief Information Officer since 2007.

Brian D. Savoy 39

 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Mr. Savoy assumed his current position in September 2013. Prior to that, he had held the position of Director, Forecasting and Analysis since 2009.

B. Keith Trent 55

 Executive Vice President, Grid Solutions and President, Midwest and Florida Regions. Mr. Trent assumed his current position in August 2014. He served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Regulated Utilities from December 2012 until August 2014. Prior to that, he held the position of Executive Vice President, Regulated Utilities upon the merger with Progress Energy in July 2012, and President, Commercial Businesses from July 2009 until July 2012. 

Jennifer L. Weber 48

 Executive Vice President, External Affairs and Strategic Policy. Ms. Weber assumed her current position in August 2014. Prior to that, she had served as Executive Vice President Chief Human Resources Officer since January 2011. She previously held the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer from November 2008 until January 2011. 

Lloyd M. Yates 54

 Executive Vice President, Market Solutions and President, Carolinas Region. Mr. Yates assumed his current position in August 2014. He held the position of Executive Vice President, Regulated Utilities from December 2012 to August 2014, and prior to that, had served as Executive Vice President, Customer Operations since July 2012, upon the merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy. Prior to the merger, Mr. Yates had served as Chief Executive Officer, Duke Energy Progress, Inc. since July 2007.

Steven K. Young 56

 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Young assumed his current position in August 2013. Prior to that, he had served as Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller since April 2006.

Executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected or appointed.

17

PART I

There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person involved in officer selection.

Environmental Matters

The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Duke Energy is also subject to international laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations affecting the Duke Energy Registrants include, but are not limited to:

•The Clean Air Act (CAA), as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new national ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. Owners and/or operators of air emission sources are responsible for obtaining permits and for annual compliance and reporting.

•The Clean Water Act (CWA) which requires permits for facilities that discharge wastewaters into the environment.

•The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which can require any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past may have owned or operated a disposal site, as well as transporters or generators of hazardous substances sent to a disposal site, to share in remediation costs.

•The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), which requires certain solid wastes, including hazardous wastes, to be managed pursuant to a comprehensive regulatory regime.

•The National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider potential environmental impacts in their decisions, including siting approvals.

See “Other Matters” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and the potential impacts such legislation could have on the Duke Energy Registrants’ operations. Additionally, other recently passed and potential future environmental laws and regulations could have a significant impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, if and when such laws and regulations become effective, the Duke Energy Registrants will seek appropriate regulatory recovery of costs to comply within its regulated operations.

For more information on environmental matters involving the Duke Energy Registrants, including possible liability and capital costs, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies - Environmental.” Except to the extent discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies,” compliance with current international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise protecting the environment, is incorporated into the routine cost structure of our various business segments and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the competitive position, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Duke Energy Registrants.

DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS

Duke Energy Carolinas is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area covers approximately 24,000 square miles and supplies electric service to 2.5 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Carolinas’ generating plants, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Carolinas is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, PSCSC, NRC and FERC.

Substantially all of Duke Energy Carolinas operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Carolinas operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utility. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

PROGRESS ENERGY

Progress Energy is a public utility holding company headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, primarily engaged in the regulated electric utility business and is subject to regulation by the FERC. Progress Energy conducts operations through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida. When discussing Progress Energy’s financial information, it necessarily includes the results of Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida.

Substantially all of Progress Energy’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Progress Energy operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utilities. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

DUKE ENERGY PROGRESS

Duke Energy Progress is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Duke Energy Progress’ service area covers approximately 32,000 square miles, and supplies electric service to approximately 1.5 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Progress’ generating plants, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Progress is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, PSCSC, NRC and FERC.

Substantially all of Duke Energy Progress’ operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Progress operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utility. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

18

PART I

DUKE ENERGY FLORIDA

Duke Energy Florida is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution, and sale of electricity in portions of Florida. Duke Energy Florida’s service area covers approximately 13,000 square miles and supplies electric service to approximately 1.7 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Florida’s generating plants, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Florida is subject to the regulatory provisions of the FPSC, NRC and FERC.

Substantially all of Duke Energy Florida’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Florida operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utility. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

DUKE ENERGY OHIO

Duke Energy Ohio is a public utility that provides service in portions of Ohio and Kentucky. References herein to Duke Energy Ohio include Duke Energy Ohio and its subsidiaries. Duke Energy Ohio is subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUCO, KPSC and FERC.

Business Segments

Duke Energy Ohio operates two business segments: Regulated Utilities and Commercial Power. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

The following is a brief description of the nature of operations of each of Duke Energy Ohio’s reportable business segments.

REGULATED UTILITIES

Regulated Utilities transmits and distributes electricity in Ohio. Regulated Utilities also generates, transmits and distributes electricity in Kentucky. Regulated Utilities also transports and sells natural gas in Ohio and Kentucky. Duke Energy Ohio applies regulatory accounting to substantially all of the operations in its Regulated Utilities operating segment.

Duke Energy Ohio’s Regulated Utilities service area covers 3,000 square miles and supplies electric service to 840,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers and provides regulated transmission and distribution services for natural gas to 500,000 customers. See Item 2, “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Ohio’s Regulated Utilities generating facilities.

See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters,” for further discussion related to regulatory filings.

COMMERCIAL POWER

On August 21, 2014, Duke Energy entered into an agreement to sell Commercial Power's Midwest generation business to Dynegy. The transaction is conditioned on approval by FERC, and is expected to close by the end of the second quarter of 2015. The results of these operations have been reclassified to Discontinued Operations on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. For additional information on the Midwest generation business disposition see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Acquisitions, Dispositions and Sales of Other Assets."

For additional information on Duke Energy Ohio’s Commercial Power generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties,”

DUKE ENERGY INDIANA

Duke Energy Indiana is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana’s service area covers 23,000 square miles and supplies electric service to 810,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers. See Item 2, “Properties” for further discussion of Duke Energy Indiana’s generating facilities, transmission and distribution. Duke Energy Indiana is subject to the regulatory provisions of the IURC and FERC.

Substantially all of Duke Energy Indiana’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Indiana operates one reportable business segment, Regulated Utility. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS