MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF  

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Overview  

The following discussion and analysis of the consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, and related financial information, are presented in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to assist in the evaluation of BB&T’s 2010 performance.  

Reclassifications  

In certain circumstances, reclassifications have been made to prior period information to conform to the 2010 presentation. Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported shareholders’ equity or net income.  

Critical Accounting Policies  

The accounting and reporting policies of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and conform to the accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities. BB&T’s financial position and results of operations are affected by management’s application of accounting policies, including estimates, assumptions and judgments made to arrive at the carrying value of assets and liabilities and amounts reported for revenues and expenses. Different assumptions in the application of these policies could result in material changes in BB&T’s consolidated financial position and/or consolidated results of operations and related disclosures. The more critical accounting and reporting policies include BB&T’s accounting for the allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded lending commitments, determining fair value of financial instruments, intangible assets and other purchase accounting related adjustments associated with mergers and acquisitions, costs and benefit obligations associated with BB&T’s pension and postretirement benefit plans, and income taxes. Understanding BB&T’s accounting policies is fundamental to understanding BB&T’s consolidated financial position and consolidated results of operations. Accordingly, BB&T’s significant accounting policies and changes in accounting principles and effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in detail in Note 1 in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

The following is a summary of BB&T’s critical accounting policies that are highly dependent on estimates, assumptions and judgments. These critical accounting policies are reviewed with the Audit Committee of BB&T’s Board of Directors on a periodic basis.  

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments  

It is the policy of BB&T to maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments that represent management’s best estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. Estimates for loan and lease losses are determined by analyzing historical loan and lease losses, historical loan and lease migration to charge-off experience, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, expected cash flows on purchased loans, current assessment of problem loan and lease administration, the results of regulatory examinations, and changes in the size, composition and risk assessment of the loan and lease portfolio. For restructured loans, re-default expectations and estimated slower prepayment speeds are incorporated in the determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses. Also included in management’s estimates for loan and lease losses are considerations with respect to the impact of current economic events, the outcomes of which are uncertain. These events may include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in overall interest rates, political conditions, legislation that may directly or indirectly affect the banking industry and economic conditions affecting specific geographical areas and industries in which BB&T conducts business. The methodology used to determine an estimate for the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is inherently similar to the methodology used in calculating the allowance for loans and leases adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at the time of funding. A detailed discussion of the methodology used in determining the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is included in the “Overview and Description of Business—Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments.”  

42  

Table of Contents 

Fair Value of Financial Instruments  

A significant portion of BB&T’s assets and certain liabilities are financial instruments carried at fair value. This includes securities available for sale, trading securities, derivatives, certain loans held for sale, residential mortgage servicing rights, certain short-term borrowings and venture capital investments. At December 31, 2010, the percentage of total assets and total liabilities measured at fair value was 18.5% and less than 1%, respectively. The vast majority of assets and liabilities carried at fair value are based on either quoted market prices or market prices for similar instruments. At December 31, 2010, 7.6% of assets measured at fair value were based on significant unobservable inputs. This is approximately 1% of BB&T’s total assets. See Note 19 “Fair Value Disclosures” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments.  

Securities  

The fair values for available-for-sale and trading securities are generally based upon quoted market prices or observable market prices for similar instruments. BB&T generally utilizes a third-party pricing service in determining the fair value of its securities portfolio. The pricing service uses observable inputs when available including benchmark yields, reported trades, broker-dealer quotes, issuer spreads, benchmark securities, bids and offers. These values take into account recent market activity as well as other market observable data such as interest rate, spread and prepayment information. When market observable data is not available, which generally occurs due to the lack of liquidity for certain securities, the valuation of the security is subjective and may involve substantial judgment by management. As of December 31, 2010, BB&T had approximately $1.1 billion of available-for-sale securities, which is less than 1% of total assets, valued using unobservable inputs. This total includes $954 million of non-agency mortgage-backed securities that are covered by a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC and $126 million of auction-rate securities. BB&T periodically reviews available-for-sale securities with an unrealized loss. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. The purpose of the review is to consider the length of time and the extent to which the market value of a security has been below its amortized cost. The primary factors BB&T considers in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary are long term expectations and recent experience regarding principal and interest payments, and BB&T’s intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company would be required to sell those securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis.  

Mortgage Servicing Rights  

BB&T has a significant mortgage loan servicing portfolio and related mortgage servicing rights (“MSRs”). BB&T has two primary classes of MSRs for which it separately manages the economic risk: residential and commercial. Residential MSRs are primarily carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage banking income each period. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value, due to changes in valuation inputs and assumptions, of its residential MSRs. MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are not readily available. Accordingly, BB&T estimates the fair value of residential MSRs using an option adjusted spread (“OAS”) valuation model to project MSR cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. The OAS model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other economic factors. BB&T reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions in the OAS model to reflect market conditions and assumptions that a market participant would consider in valuing the MSR asset. When available, fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to observable market data and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience. Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. The value of MSRs is significantly affected by mortgage interest rates available in the marketplace, which influence mortgage loan prepayment speeds. In general, during periods of declining interest rates, the value of MSRs declines due to increasing prepayments attributable to increased mortgage-refinance activity. Conversely, during periods of rising interest rates, the value of MSRs generally increases due to reduced refinance activity. Commercial MSRs are carried at lower of cost or market and amortized over the estimated period that servicing income is expected to be received based on projections of the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows. The amount and timing of servicing asset amortization is updated based on actual  

43  

Table of Contents 

 results and updated projections. In addition, BB&T has approximately $11 million of residential MSRs that are valued at the lower of cost or market. These MSRs are associated with government sponsored programs that have prepayment assumptions that are difficult to model, which make it difficult to hedge the associated risk. Please refer to Note 8 “Loan Servicing” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for quantitative disclosures reflecting the effect that changes in management’s assumptions would have on the fair value of MSRs.  

Loans Held for Sale  

BB&T originates certain mortgage loans to be sold to investors that are carried at fair value. The fair value is primarily based on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types of loans. Changes in the fair value are recorded as a component of mortgage banking income while mortgage loan origination costs for loans held for sale for which the Corporation elected the Fair Value Option are recognized in noninterest expense when incurred. The changes in fair value of these assets are largely driven by changes in interest rates subsequent to loan funding and changes in the fair value of servicing associated with the mortgage loan held for sale. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the economic effect of changes in fair value of the underlying loans.  

In addition, as of December 31, 2010, BB&T held $521 million of nonaccrual commercial loans accounted for at the lower of cost or market in the loans held for sale portfolio. These loans were originated as loans held for investment and transferred to the loans held for sale portfolio based on management’s nonperforming asset disposition strategy.  

Derivative Assets and Liabilities  

BB&T uses derivatives to manage various financial risks. The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and internal pricing models that are primarily sensitive to market observable data. BB&T mitigates the credit risk by subjecting counterparties to credit reviews and approvals similar to those used in making loans and other extensions of credit. In addition, certain counterparties are required to provide collateral to BB&T when their unsecured loss positions exceed certain negotiated limits. The fair value of interest rate lock commitments, which are related to mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted market prices adjusted for commitments that BB&T does not expect to fund and includes the value attributable to the net servicing fee.  

Venture Capital and Similar Investments  

BB&T has venture capital and similar investments that are carried at fair value. Changes in the fair value of these investments are recorded in other noninterest income each period. In many cases there are no observable market values for these investments and therefore management must estimate the fair value based on a comparison of the operating performance of the company to multiples in the marketplace for similar entities. This analysis requires significant judgment and actual values in a sale could differ materially from those estimated. As of December 31, 2010, BB&T had $266 million of venture capital investments, which is less than 1% of total assets.  

Intangible Assets  

BB&T’s mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, BB&T is required to record the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, and liabilities assumed at their fair value, which often involves estimates based on third party valuations, such as appraisals, or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analyses or other valuation techniques, all of which are inherently subjective. The amortization of identified intangible assets is based upon the estimated economic benefits to be received, which is also subjective. Acquisitions typically result in goodwill, which is subject to ongoing periodic impairment tests based on the fair value of net assets acquired compared to their carrying value. Please refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a description of BB&T’s impairment testing process. The major assumptions used in the impairment testing process include the estimated future cash flows of each business unit and discount rates. Discount rates are unique to each business unit and are based upon the cost of capital specific to the industry in which the business unit operates. Management evaluated the sensitivity of the significant assumptions in its impairment analysis including consideration of a 10% change in estimated future cash flows or the discount rate for each reporting unit. After giving appropriate consideration to all available information, management determined that no impairment of goodwill would have been incurred. However, as a result of the  

44  

Table of Contents 

 challenging economic environment, the excess of the fair value over the carrying value of several reporting units has narrowed. A continuing period of depressed market conditions, or further market deterioration, may result in impairment of goodwill in the future.  

Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations  

BB&T offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to employees. The calculation of the obligations and related expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions. Actuarial assumptions used in the determination of future values of plan assets and liabilities are subject to management judgment and may differ significantly if different assumptions are used. The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit obligations is set by reference to published high-quality bond indices, as well as certain hypothetical spot-rate yield curves. These yield curves were constructed from the underlying bond price and yield data collected as of the plan’s measurement date and are represented by a series of annualized, individual discount rates with durations ranging from six months to thirty years. Each discount rate in the curve was derived from an equal weighting of the double A or higher bond universe, apportioned into distinct maturity groups. For durations where no bond maturities were available, the discount rates for these maturities were extrapolated based on historical relationships from observable data in similar markets. These indices and hypothetical curves give only an indication of the appropriate discount rate because the cash flows of the bonds comprising the indices and curves do not match the projected benefit payment stream of the plan precisely. For this reason, we also consider the individual characteristics of the plan, such as projected cash flow patterns and payment durations, when setting the discount rate. Management evaluated the sensitivity changes in the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate would have on pension expense for 2011. A decrease of 25 basis points in the discount rate would result in an additional pension expense of approximately $12 million for 2011. Based on the balance of plan assets on December 31, 2010, a decrease of one percent in the expected return on plan assets would result in an increase of approximately $25 million in pension expense for 2011. Please refer to Note 15 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for disclosures related to BB&T’s benefit plans.  

Income Taxes  

The calculation of BB&T’s income tax provision is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments. As part of the Company’s analysis and implementation of business strategies, consideration is given to the tax laws and regulations that apply to the specific facts and circumstances for any tax position under evaluation. For tax positions that are uncertain in nature, management determines whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. For tax positions that meet this threshold, management then estimates the amount of the tax benefit to recognize in the financial statements. Management closely monitors tax developments in order to evaluate the effect they may have on the Company’s overall tax position and the estimates and judgments used in determining the income tax provision and records adjustments as necessary.  

Analysis of Financial Condition  

A summary of the more significant fluctuations in balance sheet accounts is presented below.  

For the year ended December 31, 2010, BB&T’s average assets totaled $159.7 billion, an increase of $4.5 billion, or 2.9%, compared to the 2009 average of $155.2 billion, primarily reflecting growth in average loans and leases and the FDIC loss share receivable. Average loans and leases for 2010 were up $2.6 billion, or 2.6%, from 2009 and average FDIC loss share receivable increased $1.0 billion compared to 2009. The growth in average loans and leases included $3.9 billion in average covered loans as a result of the Colonial acquisition, which was completed on August 14, 2009. Average investment securities decreased $3.6 billion, or 11.6%, compared to 2009 due to the deleveraging strategy, which was completed during the second quarter of 2010. Total earning assets averaged $135.3 billion in 2010, a decrease of $335 million, or .2%, compared to 2009. These averages and growth rates include the effects of acquisitions.  

BB&T’s average deposits totaled $106.8 billion, reflecting growth of $4.4 billion, or 4.3%, compared to 2009. The growth in average deposits includes growth of 9.2% from client sources and a decline of 44.2% in wholesale deposit products. The favorable change was primarily due to the additional deposits assumed in the Colonial acquisition.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Short-term borrowings include Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, master notes, short-term bank notes, treasury tax and loan deposit notes payable and other short-term borrowings. Average short-term borrowings totaled $9.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $3.5 billion, or 27.8%, from 2009. BB&T also has used long-term debt for a significant portion of its funding needs. Long-term debt includes Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances, other secured borrowings by Branch Bank, capital securities issued by unconsolidated trusts and senior and subordinated debt issued by the Corporation and Branch Bank. Average long-term debt totaled $21.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $2.6 billion, or 13.5%, compared to 2009.  

The compound annual rate of growth in average total assets for the five-year period ended December 31, 2010, was 8.8%. Over the same five-year period, average loans and leases increased at a compound annual rate of 7.9%, average securities increased at a compound annual rate of 7.1%, and average deposits grew at a compound annual rate of 8.7%. These balance sheet growth rates include the effect of acquisitions, as well as internal growth.  

For more detailed discussions concerning the causes of these fluctuations, please refer to the sections that follow.  

Securities Available for Sale  

The securities portfolio provides earnings and liquidity, and is managed as part of the overall asset and liability management process to optimize net interest income and reduce exposure to interest rate risk. Management has historically emphasized investments with duration of five years or less to provide flexibility in managing the balance sheet in changing interest rate environments. Management believes that having the vast majority of its investment securities in the available-for-sale portfolio allows flexibility in the management of the overall investment portfolio, consistent with the objectives of optimizing profitability, mitigating interest rate risk, supporting capital and providing liquidity.  

The following table provides information regarding the composition of BB&T’s available-for-sale securities portfolio for the years presented:  

Table 8  

Composition of Securities Portfolio  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Total securities available for sale decreased 30.3% from year-end 2009 to year-end 2010, to $23.2 billion at December 31, 2010. The decline during 2010 primarily reflects the deleveraging strategy executed during the second quarter of 2010 as discussed below. Total securities available for sale increased $889 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase primarily reflects the additional securities acquired in the Colonial acquisition.  

Mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored entities comprised 79.2% of the total available-for-sale securities portfolio at year-end 2010. The duration of the mortgage-backed securities was 3.10 years at December 31, 2010 compared to 3.37 years at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the available-for-sale securities portfolio also includes $1.5 billion of securities that were acquired from the FDIC as  

46  

Table of Contents 

 part of the Colonial acquisition. These securities are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements and include $1.2 billion of non-agency mortgage-backed securities and $304 million of municipal securities. The duration of the entire available-for-sale portfolio at December 31, 2010 was 3.97 years compared to 4.40 years at December 31, 2009. The duration of the securities portfolio excludes equity securities, auction rate securities, and certain non-agency mortgage-backed securities that were acquired in the Colonial acquisition.  

In 2010, management executed two major strategies to strengthen the balance sheet. In the second quarter of 2010, management executed a deleveraging strategy to better position BB&T’s balance sheet for a rising rate environment and achieve a better mix of earning assets. In connection with this strategy, management reduced the balance sheet by approximately $8 billion through the sale of securities. During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, management executed a strategy to further de-risk the available-for-sale securities portfolio. The de-risking strategy was aimed at further reducing the duration of the securities portfolio and reducing the risk of charges to other comprehensive income in a rising rate environment. Also to further protect against the risk of a rising rate environment, management replaced a portion of the securities sold with floating-rate securities. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 28% of the available-for-sale securities portfolio was floating rate. In addition, management sold approximately $400 million of non-agency mortgage-backed securities to reduce the potential for future credit losses. These strategies were the primary driver in generating net securities gains during 2010. Primarily in connection with these strategies, BB&T sold a total of $31.3 billion in available-for-sale securities during 2010, which produced net securities gains of $585 million. In addition, BB&T recognized $31 million in charges for other-than-temporary impairment related to BB&T’s portfolio of non-agency mortgage-backed securities.  

In 2009, BB&T sold approximately $17.1 billion of available-for-sale securities and realized net gains totaling $240 million. In addition, BB&T recorded $41 million of other-than-temporary impairments related to certain debt and equity securities. During the first quarter of 2009, BB&T took advantage of an opportunity to shorten the duration of its securities portfolio and realize gains in certain mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. government-sponsored entities. While these mortgage-backed securities had higher yields, they had a longer duration and government efforts to drive down mortgage rates increased the risk of early prepayment. The majority of the proceeds from these sales were reinvested in similar securities with shorter durations early in the second quarter of 2009.  

During 2008, BB&T sold approximately $21.0 billion of available-for-sale securities and realized net gains totaling $211 million. In addition, BB&T recorded $104 million of other-than-temporary impairments related to certain debt and equity securities.  

On December 31, 2010, BB&T held certain investment securities having continuous unrealized loss positions for more than 12 months. As of December 31, 2010, the unrealized losses on these securities totaled $260 million. All of these losses were in non-agency mortgage-backed and municipal securities. At December 31, 2010, all of the available-for-sale debt securities in an unrealized loss position, excluding those covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, were investment grade with the exception of (a) bonds with an amortized cost of $3 million from one issuer of auction rate securities; (b) two municipal bonds with an amortized cost of $8 million; and (c) eight non-agency mortgage-backed securities with an amortized cost of $556 million. At December 31, 2010, the total unrealized loss on these non-investment grade securities was $116 million. All of the non-investment grade securities referenced above were initially investment grade and have been downgraded since purchase.  

BB&T monitors the credit ratings of all of its debt securities on an ongoing basis. When an investment security is rated lower than investment grade, the security is evaluated for potential credit impairment. Based on its evaluation at December 31, 2010, BB&T determined that certain of the non-investment grade non-agency mortgage-backed securities had credit losses evident and recognized other-than-temporary impairments related to these securities. BB&T’s evaluation of the other debt securities with continuous unrealized losses indicated that there were no credit losses evident. Furthermore, as of the date of the evaluation, BB&T did not intend to sell, and determined that it was more likely than not that the Company would not be required to sell these debt securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis. See the “Summary Analysis Supporting Conclusions” section included in Note 3 “Securities” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s evaluation of securities for other-than-temporary impairment.  

47  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents BB&T’s securities portfolio at December 31, 2010, segregated by major category with ranges of maturities and average yields disclosed.  

Table 9  

Securities  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Yields on tax-exempt securities are calculated on a taxable-equivalent basis using the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%. Yields for available-for-sale securities are calculated based on the amortized cost of the securities.  

 (2)   For purposes of the maturity table, mortgage-backed securities, which are not due at a single maturity date, have been included in maturity groupings based on the contractual maturity. The expected life of mortgage- backed securities will differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may have the right to call or prepay the underlying mortgage loans with or without call or prepayment penalties.  

48  

Table of Contents 

 (3)   Weighted-average yield excludes the effect of pay-fixed swaps hedging municipal securities.  

 (4)   Securities with no stated maturity include equity investments that totaled $155 million and certain municipal investments that totaled $13 million.  

The fully taxable-equivalent (“FTE”) yield on the total securities portfolio was 3.89% for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 4.41% for the prior year. The yield on mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored entities decreased from 4.14% to 3.24%, the FTE yield on state and municipal securities decreased from 5.67% last year to 5.49% in the current year and the yield on U.S. government-sponsored entity securities decreased from 3.86% in 2009 to 3.67% in 2010. The decrease in the annualized FTE yield on the average securities portfolio was primarily the result of reinvesting securities sales into securities with shorter durations and lower yields. Partially offsetting these declines, the FTE yield benefited from the securities acquired in the Colonial transaction, which were outstanding for the full year 2010 compared to a partial year in 2009.  

Loans and Leases  

BB&T emphasizes commercial lending to small and medium-sized businesses, consumer lending, mortgage lending and specialized lending with an overall goal of maximizing the profitability of the loan portfolio while maintaining strong asset quality. The various categories of loan products offered by BB&T are discussed under “Lending Activities” in the “Overview and Description of Business” section herein. BB&T is a full-service lender with approximately one-half of its loan portfolio to businesses and one-half to individual consumers. BB&T’s loan portfolio, excluding loans held for sale, decreased slightly compared to year-end 2009. This decrease includes a decline of $1.8 billion in covered loans acquired as part of the Colonial transaction. All covered loans are covered by one of the FDIC loss sharing agreements as further discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Average total loans and leases for 2010 increased $2.6 billion, or 2.6%, compared to 2009. The growth in the average loan portfolio included an increase of $5.3 billion as a result of the Colonial acquisition during 2009.  

The following table presents BB&T’s average loans for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, segregated by major category:  

Table 10  

Composition of Average Loans and Leases  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Average commercial loans and leases decreased $1.3 billion, or 2.6%, in 2010 as compared to 2009. The decline in the commercial portfolio is largely a result of lower commercial real estate balances, as management has intentionally lowered its exposures to commercial real estate lending during the economic downturn. BB&T’s residential, acquisition and development portfolio held for investment declined $2.4 billion in the past year to $3.4  

49  

Table of Contents 

 billion at December 31, 2010. This decline has been somewhat offset by increases in commercial and industrial lending. Management has added a number of new producers in the corporate and middle-market banking area in an effort to increase commercial and industrial lending to better diversify the loan portfolio and capitalize on the strength of BB&T’s balance sheet during the economic downturn. During the fourth quarter of 2010, commercial and industrial loans increased an annualized 6.9% compared to the third quarter of 2010.  

Average direct retail loans declined 5.3% in 2010 due to continuing difficulties in the residential real estate market, which decreased demand for home equity loan products. Average sales finance loans and average revolving credit reflected growth rates of 5.9% and 9.5% during 2010, respectively. BB&T concentrates its efforts on the highest quality borrowers in both of these product markets.  

Average mortgage loans held for investment increased slightly compared to 2009. Management views mortgage loans as an integral part of BB&T’s relationship-based credit culture. BB&T is a large originator of residential mortgage loans, with 2010 originations of $24.9 billion. A majority of the mortgage loans originated were sold in the secondary market during 2010. During the third quarter of 2010, management made the decision to retain a portion of its 10 to 15 year fixed- and variable-rate production.  

Average loans held by BB&T’s specialized lending subsidiaries increased $637 million, or 8.9%, compared to 2009. The growth in the specialized lending portfolio was primarily in nonprime automobile loans and small ticket finance.  

The average annualized FTE yield for 2010 for the total loan portfolio was 5.88% compared to 5.49% for the prior year. The 39 basis point increase in the FTE yield on the loan portfolio was primarily due to the acquired loans from the Colonial transaction, which have produced higher yields due to better than expected performance.  

In the normal course of business, residential acquisition, development and construction, commercial construction or commercial land/development loan agreements may include an interest reserve account at inception. An interest reserve allows the borrower to add interest charges to the outstanding loan balance during the construction period. Interest reserves provide an effective means to address the cash flow characteristics of a real estate construction loan. Loan agreements containing an interest reserve generally require more equity to be contributed by the borrower to the construction project at inception. Loans with interest reserves are subject to substantially similar underwriting standards as loans without interest reserves.  

Loans with interest reserves are closely monitored through physical inspections, reconciliation of draw requests, review of rent rolls and operating statements and quarterly portfolio reviews performed by senior management. When appropriate, extensions, renewals and restructurings of loans with interest reserves are approved after giving consideration to the project’s status, the borrower’s financial condition, and the collateral protection based on current market conditions. In connection with the extension, renewal or restructuring of a loan with an interest reserve, additional interest reserves may be funded by the client, partially funded by the client and BB&T, or fully provided by BB&T. Typically, interest reserves provided by BB&T are secured by additional collateral and are limited to more conservative advance rates on the pledged collateral. These loans must also be supported by an analysis of the client’s willingness and capacity to service the debt.  

Interest that has been added to the balance of a loan through the use of an interest reserve is recognized as income only if the collectability of the remaining contractual principal and interest payments is reasonably assured. If a loan with interest reserves is in default and deemed uncollectible, interest is no longer funded through the interest reserve. Interest previously recognized from interest reserves generally is not reversed against current income when a construction loan with interest reserves is placed on nonaccrual status.  

At December 31, 2010, approximately $1.2 billion of BB&T’s construction loan portfolio have active interest reserves (i.e. current funding of interest charges through a reserve) compared to $2.4 billion at December 31, 2009. Interest income related to loans with active interest reserves was approximately $49 million and represents less than 1% of total interest income for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Asset Quality and Credit Risk Management  

BB&T has established the following general practices to manage credit risk:  

   ·    limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend to a borrower;  

   ·    establishing a process for credit approval accountability;  

   ·    careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrower, transaction, market and collateral risks;  

   ·    ongoing servicing of individual loans and lending relationships;  

   ·    continuous monitoring of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and  

   ·    periodically reevaluating the bank’s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions change.  

BB&T’s lending strategy focuses on relationship based lending within its markets. BB&T has continued to work with its clients that have experienced financial difficulties throughout the economic recession. During the second quarter of 2010, management implemented a comprehensive nonperforming asset disposition strategy with a goal of more aggressively reducing BB&T’s exposure to nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties and to reduce or eliminate any delay in exiting the credit cycle. The strategy was implemented during the second quarter of 2010 as management believed that pricing for distressed assets had improved. This strategy continued throughout the third and fourth quarters and into 2011.  

The implementation of the nonperforming asset disposition strategy included the identification of problem assets that were transferred from loans held for investment to loans held for sale. In connection with the strategy, management transferred loans with a book value of approximately $1.9 billion to loans held for sale during 2010. This included $1.5 billion of commercial loans, which were primarily in the residential, acquisition and development and other commercial real estate portfolios, and $388 million of residential mortgage loans. Net charge-offs of $605 million were recorded upon transfer to loans held for sale. This included $141 million related to residential mortgage loans and $464 million for commercial loans. BB&T also recognized $90 million of losses and additional writedowns related to commercial loans held for sale during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, there remained $521 million of nonaccrual commercial loans held for sale. These loans were carried at average prices that are consistent with actual sales results. Management expects that these loans will be disposed of in the first half of 2011.  

51  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes asset quality information for the past five years.  

Table 11  

Asset Quality  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Covered and other acquired loans are considered to be performing due to the application of the accretion method. Covered loans that are contractually past due are noted in the footnotes below.  

 (2)   Excludes nonaccrual mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $55 million, $17 million, $6 million, and $6 million as of December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. BB&T revised its nonaccrual policy related to FHA/VA guaranteed loans during 2010. The change in policy resulted in a decrease in nonaccrual mortgage loans and an increase in mortgage loans 90 days past due and still accruing of approximately $79 million.  

52  

Table of Contents 

 (3)   Excludes foreclosed real estate totaling $313 million and $160 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (4)   Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase.  

 (5)   Excludes loans past due 90 days or more that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements totaling $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.  

 (6)   Excludes mortgage loans past due 90 days or more that are government guaranteed totaling $153 million, $8 million, $7 million, $1 million and $2 million at December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.  

 (7)   Excludes loans totaling $363 million and $391 million past due 30-89 days at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (8)   Excludes mortgage loans past due 30-89 days that are government guaranteed totaling $83 million, $23 million, $25 million, $7 million and $5 million at December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008, December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively.  

 (9)   These asset quality ratios have been adjusted to remove the impact of covered loans and covered foreclosed property. Appropriate adjustments to the numerator and denominator have been reflected in the calculation of these ratios. Management believes the inclusion of acquired loans in certain asset quality ratios that include nonperforming assets, past due loans or net charge-offs in the numerator or denominator results in distortion of these ratios and they may not be comparable to other periods presented or to other portfolios that were not impacted by purchase accounting.  

Substantially all of the loans acquired in the Colonial acquisition are covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, whereby the FDIC reimburses BB&T for the majority of the losses incurred. In addition, all of the loans acquired were recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date without regard to the loss sharing agreements. Loans were evaluated and assigned to loan pools based on common risk characteristics. The determination of the fair value of the loans resulted in a significant write-down in the carrying amount of the loans, which was assigned to an accretable or nonaccretable balance, with the accretable balance being recognized as interest income over the remaining term of the loan. In accordance with the acquisition method of accounting, there was no allowance brought forward on any of the acquired loans, as the credit losses evident in the loans were included in the determination of the fair value of the loans at the acquisition date and are represented by the nonaccretable balance. The majority of the nonaccretable balance is expected to be received from the FDIC in connection with the loss sharing agreements and is recorded as a separate asset from the covered loans and reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As a result, all of the loans acquired in the Colonial acquisition were considered to be accruing loans as of the acquisition date. In accordance with regulatory reporting standards, covered loans that are contractually past due will continue to be reported as past due and still accruing based on the number of days past due.  

Given the significant amount of acquired loans that are past due but still accruing, BB&T believes the inclusion of these loans in certain asset quality ratios including “Loans 30-89 days past due and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases,” “Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases,” “Nonperforming loans and leases as a percentage of total loans and leases” and certain other asset quality ratios that reflect nonperforming assets in the numerator or denominator (or both) results in significant distortion to these ratios. In addition, because charge-offs related to the acquired loans are recorded against the nonaccretable balance, the net charge-off ratio including the acquired loans is lower for portfolios that have significant amounts of acquired loans. The inclusion of these loans in the asset quality ratios described above could result in a lack of comparability across quarters or years, and could negatively impact comparability with other portfolios that were not impacted by acquisition accounting. BB&T believes that the presentation of asset quality measures excluding covered loans and related amounts from both the numerator and denominator provides better perspective into underlying trends related to the quality of its loan portfolio. Accordingly, the asset quality measures in Table 11 present asset quality information both on a consolidated basis as well as excluding the covered assets and related amounts.  

Consistent with BB&T’s belief that the presentation of certain asset quality measures excluding the impact of covered loans is more meaningful, certain information reflected in Tables 12-1, 12-2, 14-1, 14-2 and 14-3 has been adjusted to exclude the impact of covered loans and foreclosed property. These adjustments have been identified and explained in the footnotes to each table.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Nonperforming assets consist of foreclosed real estate, repossessions, nonaccrual loans and certain restructured loans, which totaled $4.3 billion at December 31, 2010 (or $4.0 billion excluding covered foreclosed property), compared to $4.3 billion (or $4.2 billion excluding covered foreclosed property) at December 31, 2009. After peaking in the first quarter of 2010, nonperforming assets excluding covered foreclosed property declined $423 million in the last three quarters of 2010 as BB&T continued to successfully implement its nonperforming asset disposition strategy. As a percentage of loans and leases plus foreclosed property, nonperforming assets were 3.94% at December 31, 2010 (or 3.88% excluding covered loans and foreclosed property) compared with 4.02% (or 4.18% excluding covered loans and foreclosed property) at December 31, 2009.  

Past due loans still accruing decreased 13.7% compared to the level at year-end 2009. Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest, excluding covered loans and government guaranteed mortgage loans, totaled $295 million at December 31, 2010, compared with $311 million at year-end 2009. Loans 30-89 days past due, excluding covered loans and government guaranteed mortgage loans, totaled $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010, which was also a decline compared with $1.7 billion at year-end 2009.  

54  

Table of Contents 

The following table summarizes nonperforming assets and past due loans by loan type for the past three years.  

Table 12-1  

Summary of Nonperforming Assets and Past Due Loans  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

55  

Table of Contents 

 (1)   Covered and other acquired loans are considered to be performing due to the application of the accretion method. Covered loans that are contractually past due are noted in the footnotes below.  

 (2)   Excludes nonaccrual mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $55 million and $17 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. BB&T revised its nonaccrual policy related to FHA/VA guaranteed loans during 2010. The change in policy resulted in a decrease in nonaccrual mortgage loans and an increase in mortgage loans 90 days past due and still accruing of approximately $79 million.  

 (3)   Excludes foreclosed real estate totaling $313 million and $160 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (4)   These asset quality ratios have been adjusted to remove the impact of covered loans and covered foreclosed property. Appropriate adjustments to the numerator and denominator have been reflected in the calculation of these ratios. Management believes the inclusion of acquired loans in certain asset quality ratios that include nonperforming assets, past due loans or net charge-offs in the numerator or denominator results in distortion of these ratios and they may not be comparable to other periods presented or to other portfolios that were not impacted by purchase accounting.  

 (5)   Including loans covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, nonaccrual loans and leases as a percentage of total loans and leases were 2.49% and 2.51%, as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.  

 (6)   Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase.  

 (7)   Excludes mortgage loans past due 90 days or more that are government guaranteed totaling $153 million, $8 million and $7 million at December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.  

 (8)   Excludes loans past due 90 days or more that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements totaling $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.  

 (9)   Including loans covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases were 1.34% and 1.60% as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.  

 (10)   Excludes mortgage loans past due 30-89 days that are government guaranteed totaling $83 million, $23 million and $25 million at December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.  

 (11)   Excludes loans totaling $363 million and $391 million past due 30-89 days at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, that are covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

 (12)   Including loans covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, loans past due 30-89 days as a percentage of total loans and leases were 1.65% and 1.93% as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively.  

Table 12-2  

Troubled Debt Restructurings  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Excludes restructured covered and other acquired loans accounted for under the accretion method.  

 (2)   Past due performing restructurings are included in past due disclosures.  

 (3)   Excludes restructured mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $14 million included in loans held for sale.  

 (4)   Excludes restructured mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $115 million.  

 (5)   Nonperforming restructurings are included in nonaccrual loan disclosures.  

Troubled debt restructurings (“restructurings”) generally occur when a borrower is experiencing, or is expected to experience, financial difficulties in the near-term. As a result, BB&T will work with the borrower to prevent further difficulties, and ultimately to improve the likelihood of recovery on the loan. To facilitate this process, a concessionary modification that would not otherwise be considered may be granted resulting in classification of the loan as a restructuring. Restructurings can involve loans remaining on nonaccrual, moving to nonaccrual, or continuing on accruing status, depending on the individual facts and circumstances of the borrower. In circumstances where the restructuring involves charging off a portion of the loan balance, BB&T typically classifies these restructurings as nonaccrual. With respect to commercial restructurings, an analysis of the credit evaluation, in conjunction with an evaluation of the borrower’s performance prior to the restructuring, are considered when evaluating the borrower’s ability to meet the restructured terms of the loan agreement. Restructured nonaccrual loans may be returned to accrual status based on a current, well-documented credit evaluation of the borrower’s financial condition and prospects for repayment under the modified terms. This  

56  

Table of Contents 

 evaluation must include consideration of the borrower’s sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable period (generally a minimum of six months) prior to the date on which the loan is returned to accrual status. Sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable time prior to the restructuring may be taken into account.  

In connection with consumer loan restructurings, a nonperforming loan will be returned to accruing status when current as to principal and interest and upon a sustained historical repayment performance (generally a minimum of six months).  

BB&T’s performing restructured loans, excluding government guaranteed mortgage loans, totaled $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase of $406 million compared with December 31, 2009. The majority of BB&T’s commercial lending loan modifications that are considered restructurings involve an extension of the term of the loan without a corresponding adjustment to the risk premium reflected in the interest rate. BB&T does not typically lower the interest rate and rarely forgives principal or interest as part of a commercial loan modification. In addition, BB&T frequently obtains additional collateral or guarantor support when modifying such loans. For commercial loans, performing restructured loans totaled $657 million at December 31, 2010. These loans are typically residential acquisition, development and construction loans where BB&T has extended the maturity of the loan for less than one year without a sufficient corresponding increase in the interest rate, or principal payments have been deferred to assist the borrower. The majority of BB&T’s mortgage and consumer loan modifications that are considered restructurings involve a reduction in the interest rate to a below market rate and/or an increase in the term of the loan without a corresponding adjustment to the risk premium reflected in the interest rate. These modifications rarely result in the forgiveness of principal or interest.  

Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments  

The allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments compose BB&T’s allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses totaled $2.8 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase of 3.1% compared to $2.7 billion at the end of 2009. The allowance for loan and lease losses, as a percentage of loans and leases held for investment, was 2.62% at December 31, 2010 (or 2.63% excluding covered loans), compared to 2.51% (or 2.72% excluding covered loans) at year-end 2009. The decline in the allowance as a percentage of loans held for investment, excluding covered loans, reflects the improvement in the overall quality of the loan portfolio. Please refer to Note 5 “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional disclosures.  

Information relevant to BB&T’s allowance for loan and lease losses for the last five years is presented in the following tables. Table 13-1 is presented using regulatory classifications, which focuses on the underlying loan collateral, and differs from internal classifications presented herein that focus on the lines of business that generate the loans. Table 13-2 is presented based upon the lines of business, as discussed herein.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Table 13-1  

Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income, net deferred loan fees and cost and include loans held for sale.  

 (2)   The net charge-off rate for 2010 and 2009 was 2.59% and 1.79%, respectively, excluding the effect of average loans covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreements.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Table 13-2  

Analysis of Allowance for Credit Losses by Lines of Business  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Includes net charge-offs of $464 million in commercial loans and leases during 2010 in connection with BB&T’s NPA disposition strategy.  

 (2)   Includes net charge-offs of $141 million in mortgage loans during 2010 in connection with BB&T’s NPA disposition strategy.  

59  

Table of Contents 

The following tables provide further details regarding BB&T’s commercial real estate lending, residential mortgage and consumer home equity portfolios as of December 31, 2010.  

Table 14-1  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Commercial Real Estate Loan Portfolio (1) (2)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

60  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Commercial real estate loans (“CRE”) are defined as loans to finance non-owner occupied real property where the primary repayment source is the sale or rental/lease of the real property. Definition is based on internal classification. Excludes covered loans and in process items.  

 (2)   Includes net charge-offs and average balances related to loans transferred to held for sale while they were held for investment. Loans transferred to held for sale are excluded from total loans outstanding. As of December 31, 2010, there were $239 million ADC loans and $168 million other CRE loans held for sale. All of the held for sale ADC and Other CRE loans are on nonaccrual status.  

 (3)   C&I loans secured by real property are excluded.  

The residential acquisition, development and construction (“ADC”) loan portfolio totaled $3.4 billion at December 31, 2010, a decrease of $2.4 billion from December 31, 2009. This portfolio continues to represent the largest concentration of credit quality issues. The decline in the portfolio reflects management’s efforts to work through the problem credits in this portfolio. Management has established a target size of between $2 billion and $3 billion for the ADC portfolio. As a percentage of loans held for investment, ADC nonaccruals were 15.09% at year-end 2010, compared to 13.63% at year-end 2009. The allowance for loan and lease losses that is assigned to the ADC portfolio was 13.8% as of December 31, 2010, compared to 14.1% as of year-end 2009. The gross charge-off rate for the ADC portfolio was 13.86% for 2010 compared to 5.71% for 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2010, the annualized gross charge-off rate was 11.40% compared to 24.11% for the third quarter of 2010. The other commercial real estate portfolio, which is largely office buildings, hotels, warehouses, apartments, rental houses, and shopping centers, totaled $11.5 billion at December 31, 2010. The components of the portfolio that are experiencing the most stress relate to land development and hotel properties. As a percentage of loans, other commercial real estate nonaccruals were 3.53% at December 31, 2010, compared with 2.70% at December 31, 2009. The gross charge-off rate for the other commercial real estate portfolio was 3.83% in 2010 compared to .76% for 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2010, the annualized gross charge-off rate was 3.94% compared to 8.11% for the third quarter of 2010. The increased charge-off rates in the ADC and other commercial real estate portfolios during 2010 include the impact of the additional charge-offs on loans transferred to loans held for sale as part of the NPA disposition strategy. The vast majority of those losses were recorded in the third quarter of 2010.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Table 14-2  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Residential Mortgage Portfolio (1)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Applicable ratios are annualized.  

 (1)   Excludes mortgage loans held for sale, covered loans, mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does not have the obligation to repurchase and in process items.  

 (2)   Includes $336 million in loans originated by Lendmark Financial Services, which are disclosed as a part of the specialized lending category.  

 (3)   Weighted based on outstanding balance.  

The residential mortgage loan portfolio, as presented in Table 14-2, totaled $17.8 billion as of December 31, 2010, an increase of $2.1 billion from December 31, 2009. As a percentage of loans, residential mortgage loan nonaccruals were 2.72% at December 31, 2010, compared with 4.94% at December 31, 2009. The gross charge-off rate for the residential mortgage loan portfolio was 2.50% in 2010 compared to 1.79% for 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2010, the annualized gross charge-off rate was 1.42% compared to 1.34% for the third quarter of 2010. The improvement in nonaccrual loans primarily reflects the sale of nonperforming mortgage loans during the second quarter of 2010, which resulted in additional charge-offs as previously discussed.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Table 14-3  

Real Estate Lending Portfolio Credit Quality and Geographic Distribution  

Direct Retail 1-4 Family and Lot/Land Real Estate Portfolio (1)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Applicable ratios are annualized.  

 (1)   Direct retail 1-4 family and lot/land real estate loans are originated through the BB&T branching network. Excludes covered loans and in process items.  

 (2)   Home equity lines without an outstanding balance are excluded from this calculation.  

 (3)   Based on number of accounts.  

The direct retail consumer real estate loan portfolio, as presented in Table 14-3, totaled $12.7 billion as of December 31, 2010, a decrease of $663 million from December 31, 2009. This portfolio includes residential lot/land loans, home equity loans and home equity lines, which are primarily originated through the branch network. As a percentage of loans, direct retail consumer real estate nonaccruals were 1.46% at December 31, 2010, compared to 1.44% at December 31, 2009. The gross charge-off rate for the direct retail consumer real estate loan portfolio was 2.32% in 2010 compared to 2.19% for 2009. For the fourth quarter of 2010, the annualized gross charge-off rate was 2.43% compared to 2.24% for the third quarter of 2010.  

The residential lot/land loan component of this portfolio experienced the highest loss rates during 2010. The amount of the allowance allocated for the residential lot/land portfolio was 7.3% as of December 31, 2010. This component of the portfolio declined $360 million, or 20.9%, during 2010.  

63  

Table of Contents 

Deposits and Other Borrowings  

Client deposits generated through the BB&T banking network are the largest source of funds used to support asset growth. Total deposits at December 31, 2010, were $107.2 billion, a decrease of $7.8 billion, or 6.7%, compared to year-end 2009. The decrease in deposits during 2010 was driven by an $11.0 billion, or 34.0%, decrease in client certificates of deposit. Other client deposits, which include money market deposit accounts, savings accounts, individual retirement accounts and other time deposits increased by $1.9 billion, or 3.7%, compared to year-end 2009 and noninterest-bearing deposits increased by $1.7 billion, or 8.9%, from the prior year. The overall decrease is primarily due to redemptions of wholesale deposits and higher rate certificates of deposit in connection with BB&T’s balance sheet deleveraging, as well as the sale of approximately $850 million of Nevada deposits acquired in the Colonial acquisition. For the year ended December 31, 2010, total deposits averaged $106.8 billion, an increase of $4.4 billion, or 4.3%, compared to 2009. The increase in average deposits was primarily the result of a $6.1 billion, or 13.6%, increase in average other client deposits, and a $3.4 billion, or 20.5%, increase in average noninterest-bearing deposits. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in other interest-bearing deposits of $4.1 billion compared to the prior year. The increase in average deposits included the impact of Colonial, which was acquired in August 2009.  

The following table presents BB&T’s average deposits for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, segregated by major category:  

Table 15  

Composition of Average Deposits  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The overall mix of deposits continued to improve in 2010. Average client deposits grew 9.2% due to strong growth in noninterest-bearing and other client deposits, which was aided by the Colonial acquisition, while reliance on other interest-bearing deposits declined. BB&T has been successful in attracting new business and individual accounts by emphasizing the strength of BB&T’s franchise.  

The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to 1.05% during 2010, from 1.48% in 2009. The average cost for interest-bearing deposits declined during 2010 as management was able to reduce its reliance on relatively higher rate CDs. The average rates paid on the various categories of interest-bearing deposits also decreased as follows: CDs decreased to 1.97% in the current year from 2.60% in 2009; other client deposits decreased to .64% in the current year from .88% in 2009; interest checking decreased to .30% in 2010 from .39% in 2009; and other interest-bearing deposits decreased to .92% in 2010 from 1.23% in 2009.  

BB&T also uses various types of short-term borrowings in meeting funding needs. While client deposits remain the primary source for funding loan originations, management uses short-term borrowings as a supplementary funding source for loan growth and other balance sheet management purposes. Short-term borrowings were 5.7% of total funding on average in 2010 as compared to 8.0% in 2009. See Note 9 “Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. The types of short-term borrowings used by the Corporation include Federal funds purchased, which was .4% of total short-term borrowings, and  

64  

Table of Contents 

 securities sold under repurchase agreements, which was 21.0% of short-term borrowings at year-end 2010. Master notes, which are short-term borrowings issued to BB&T’s clients, represented 14.2% of total short-term borrowings at December 31, 2010. Unsecured bank notes, bank obligations collateralized by municipal securities, U.S. Treasury tax and loan deposit notes and borrowings under the treasury auction facility are also used to meet short-term funding needs and represented the remaining 64.4% of these types of funding sources as of December 31, 2010. Short-term borrowings at the end of 2010 were $5.7 billion, a decrease of $2.4 billion, or 30.0% compared to year-end 2009. Average short-term borrowings totaled $9.0 billion during 2010 compared to $12.5 billion last year, a decrease of 27.8%. The decline in the balances during 2010 primarily reflect the balance sheet deleveraging strategy that was executed during the second quarter of 2010 and strong growth in client deposits which has reduced the Corporation’s reliance on short term funding. The rates paid on average short-term borrowings declined from .50% in 2009 to .28% during 2010. At December 31, 2010, the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to .25%.  

The following table summarizes certain pertinent information for the past three years with respect to BB&T’s short-term borrowings:  

Table 16  

Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under  

Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T also uses long-term debt to provide both funding and, to a lesser extent, regulatory capital. Long-term debt was 13.6% of total funding on average during 2010 and 12.3% in 2009. See Note 11 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for further disclosure. Long-term debt at December 31, 2010, totaled $21.7 billion, an increase of 1.7% from year-end 2009. The increase in long-term debt was primarily due to the issuance of $500 million of senior notes, with an interest rate of 3.95% due April 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2010, average long-term debt increased $2.6 billion, or 13.5%, compared to the average for 2009. The increase in average long-term debt reflects the current year issuance of $500 million and various issuances of long-term debt completed during 2009. BB&T’s long-term debt consists primarily of FHLB advances, which composed 47.1% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2010; senior notes of BB&T Corporation, which composed 15.2% of the year-end balance; subordinated notes of BB&T Corporation, which composed 13.6% of the year-end balance; and junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts issued by the Corporation, which composed 15.0% of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2010. The remaining long-term debt primarily consists of both unsecured senior and subordinated borrowings by Branch Bank. FHLB advances are cost-effective long-term funding sources that provide BB&T with the flexibility to structure the debt in a manner that aids in the management of interest rate risk and liquidity. The average rate paid on long-term debt increased from 3.73% during 2009 to 3.96% during 2010.  

Liquidity needs are a primary consideration in evaluating funding sources. BB&T’s strategy is to maintain funding flexibility in order that the Corporation may react rapidly to opportunities that may become available in  

65  

Table of Contents 

 the marketplace. BB&T will continue to focus on traditional core funding strategies, supplemented as needed by the types of borrowings discussed above. See “Liquidity” herein for additional discussion.  

Shareholders’ Equity  

Shareholders’ equity totaled $16.5 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase of $257 million, or 1.6%, from year-end 2009. BB&T’s book value per common share at December 31, 2010 was $23.67, compared to $23.47 at December 31, 2009.  

Shareholders’ equity increased $400 million due to BB&T’s earnings available to common shareholders retained after dividends declared. In addition, shareholders’ equity increased $189 million as a result of the issuance of additional shares and other transactions in connection with BB&T’s equity-based compensation plans, 401(k) plan and dividend reinvestment plan. These increases were partially offset by a decline of $330 million in other comprehensive income, which principally relates to decreases in the fair values of available-for-sale securities, including the impact of the FDIC loss sharing agreement, and changes in cash flow hedges and pension obligations.  

BB&T’s tangible shareholders’ equity available to common shareholders was $10.7 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase of $752 million, or 7.6%, compared to December 31, 2009. BB&T’s tangible book value per common share at December 31, 2010 was $15.43 compared to $14.44 at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-GAAP measures. Please refer to the section titled “Capital” herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company.  

Analysis of Results of Operations  

Consolidated net income for 2010 totaled $854 million. Net income available to common shareholders totaled $816 million, which generated basic earnings per common share of $1.18 and diluted earnings per common share of $1.16. Net income for 2009 was $877 million and net income available to common shareholders totaled $729 million. Net income for 2008 totaled $1.53 billion and net income available to common shareholders totaled $1.50 billion. Basic earnings per common share were $1.16 in 2009 and $2.73 in 2008, while diluted earnings per common share were $1.15 and $2.71 for 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Two important and commonly used measures of bank profitability are return on average assets (net income as a percentage of average total assets) and return on average common shareholders’ equity (net income available to common shareholders as a percentage of average common shareholders’ equity). BB&T’s returns on average assets were .54%, .56%, and 1.12% for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The returns on average common shareholders’ equity were 4.85%, 4.93%, and 11.44% for the last three years.  

Net Interest Income  

Net interest income is BB&T’s primary source of revenue. Net interest income is influenced by a number of factors, including the volume, mix and maturity of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the interest rates earned and paid thereon. The difference between rates earned on interest-earning assets and the cost of the supporting funds (with an adjustment made to tax-exempt items to provide comparability with taxable items, i.e. the “FTE” adjustment) is measured by the net interest margin. The accompanying table presents the dollar amount of changes in interest income and interest expense, and distinguishes between the changes related to increases or decreases in average outstanding balances of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities (volume), and the changes related to increases or decreases in average interest rates on such assets and liabilities (rate). Changes attributable to both volume and rate have been allocated proportionately.  

For 2010, net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis totaled $5.5 billion, compared with $5.0 billion in 2009 and $4.3 billion in 2008. Net interest income increased 9.9% in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in net interest income during 2010 resulted primarily from higher yields from the covered loan and securities portfolios, which were outstanding for the full year of 2010 compared to a partial year for 2009. In addition, the covered loan portfolio’s yield increased during 2010 as a result of improved expectations of cash flows from the original  

66  

Table of Contents 

 estimates. On a quarterly basis, management estimates the total expected cash flows from the loans acquired. Based on these assessments during 2010, the total expected cash flows increased, which resulted in additional accretion that is reflected in interest income. The additional accretion recognized from the assessments is significantly offset by lower noninterest income due to the provisions of the FDIC loss sharing agreements. Net interest income for 2010 also benefitted from lower funding costs, as management grew noninterest bearing deposits and was able to reduce higher costs certificates and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest income increased 14.9% in 2009 compared to 2008 due primarily to earning asset growth, which helped offset declines in yields due to a lower rate environment, lower funding costs and higher yields on the covered loan and securities portfolios.  

The FTE-adjusted net interest margin is the primary measure used in evaluating the gross profit margin from the portfolios of earning assets. The FTE-adjusted net interest margin was 4.03% in 2010, 3.66% in 2009 and 3.58% in 2008. During 2010, the average yield on interest earning assets increased 19 basis points compared to the average yield during 2009, while the average cost of funds over the same time period decreased 21 basis points. The improvement in the net interest margin during 2010 was primarily due to the higher yield assets acquired in the Colonial acquisition and lower funding costs. The improvement in the net interest margin during 2009 was primarily due to successfully managing liability costs and wider spreads on assets.  

67  

Table of Contents 

Table 17  

FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis  

Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Yields are stated on a fully taxable-equivalent basis assuming tax rates in effect for the periods presented.  

 (2)   Includes Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements, interest-bearing deposits with banks, trading securities, FHLB stock and other earning assets.  

 (3)   Loan fees, which are not material for any of the periods shown, have been included for rate calculation purposes.  

 (4)   Nonaccrual loans have been included in the average balances.  

68  

Table of Contents 

Provision for Credit Losses  

A provision for credit losses is charged against earnings in order to maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments that reflects management’s best estimate of probable losses inherent in the credit portfolios at the balance sheet date. The amount of the provision is based on continuing assessments of nonperforming and “watch list” loans and associated unfunded credit commitments, analytical reviews of loss experience in relation to outstanding loans and funded credit commitments, loan charge-offs, nonperforming asset trends and management’s judgment with respect to current and expected economic conditions and their impact on the loan portfolio and outstanding unfunded credit commitments. The methodology used is described in the “Overview and Description of Business” section under the heading “Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Credit Commitments.” The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2010 was $2.6 billion, compared with $2.8 billion in 2009 and $1.4 billion in 2008.  

The provision for credit losses decreased 6.2% during 2010 while total loans and leases held for investment was relatively flat compared to the balance outstanding at the end of 2009. Included in the provision for credit losses during 2010 was $144 million related to covered loans. The provision for credit losses recorded for covered loans reflects lower expected cash flows on certain loan pools compared to the original estimates. Approximately 80% of this provision for credit losses is offset through a credit to noninterest income based on the provisions of the FDIC loss sharing agreements. Net charge-offs were 2.41% of average loans and leases (or 2.59% excluding covered loans) for 2010 compared to 1.74% of average loans and leases (or 1.79% excluding covered loans) during 2009. The allowance for loan and lease losses was 2.62% of loans and leases held for investment (or 2.63% excluding covered loans) and was 1.26x total nonaccrual loans and leases held for investment (or 1.19x excluding covered loans) at year-end 2010, compared to 2.51% (or 2.72% excluding covered loans) and .98x, respectively, at December 31, 2009. The decrease in the provision for credit losses during 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to the improving economic outlook that began to materialize in the latter part of 2010. The 94.5% increase in the provision for credit losses during 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily driven by ongoing challenges in residential real estate markets and the overall economy with the largest concentration of credit issues occurring in Georgia, Florida, and metro Washington D.C., with some deterioration in the coastal areas of the Carolinas. Additional disclosures related to BB&T’s real estate lending by product type and geographic distribution can be found in Table 14 herein.  

Noninterest Income  

Noninterest income has become, and will continue to be, a significant contributor to BB&T’s financial success. Noninterest income includes insurance income, service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage banking income, investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, trust and investment advisory revenues, gains and losses on securities transactions, and commissions and fees derived from other activities. Noninterest income as a percentage of total FTE revenues totaled 42.0% for 2010. Exceeding 40% on this measure has been a management objective for several years. Management continues to focus on diversifying its sources of revenue to further reduce BB&T’s reliance on traditional spread-based interest income, as fee-based activities are a relatively stable revenue source during periods of changing interest rates.  

69  

Table of Contents 

The following table provides a breakdown of BB&T’s noninterest income:  

Table 18  

Noninterest Income  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NM—not meaningful  

Overall noninterest income was up slightly in 2010 compared to 2009. The growth in 2010 primarily was a result of an increase in securities gains offset by lower revenues from BB&T’s mortgage banking operations, lower noninterest income from the FDIC loss share receivable, reduced service charges on deposit accounts and lower revenues from other noninterest income sources. During 2009, noninterest income grew 23.1% as a result of increased revenues from almost all of BB&T’s fee-based businesses, with the exception of small declines in investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions and trust and investment advisory revenues. The major categories of noninterest income and fluctuations in these amounts are discussed in the following paragraphs. These fluctuations reflect the impact of acquisitions.  

Income from BB&T’s insurance agency/brokerage operations was the largest source of noninterest income. Insurance income was down slightly in 2010. Insurance commissions declined $29 million during 2010 reflecting continued softness in the industry’s pricing for premiums, which was partially offset by an increase of $23 million in insurance income from underwriting activities. The decline in insurance commissions was primarily related to property and casualty insurance. Internal growth, combined with the expansion of BB&T’s insurance agency network through acquisitions resulted in growth of 12.8% in 2009. The increase in commission income during 2009 was primarily related to commissions for property and casualty insurance, which increased $77 million primarily due to acquisitions. In addition, employee benefit commissions and other insurance fees increased $14 million and $11 million, respectively.  

Service charges on deposit accounts represent BB&T’s second largest category of noninterest revenue. Service charge revenue declined $72 million, or 10.4% during 2010. Service charge revenue increased $17 million, or 2.5%, during 2009. The decrease in 2010 was largely a result of a decline in overdraft fees as a result of recent changes to BB&T’s overdraft policies during 2010 that were partially in response to new regulation. The 2009 increase was primarily a result of the acquisition of Colonial and growth in transaction accounts.  

Income from mortgage banking activities includes gains and losses from the sale of mortgage loans, revenue from servicing mortgage loans, valuation adjustments for mortgage servicing rights, mortgage servicing rights-related derivative gains/losses and the amortization or realization of expected mortgage servicing rights cash flows.  

70  

Table of Contents 

 Mortgage banking income totaled $521 million, $658 million and $275 million during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table provides a breakdown of the various components of mortgage banking income and related statistical information:  

Table 19  

Mortgage Banking Income and Related Statistical Information  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Includes a $1 million decrease due to a valuation adjustment for MSRs carried at the lower of cost or market during the twelve months ended December 31, 2010.  

Mortgage banking income decreased $137 million, or 20.8%, during 2010, following a record year in 2009. Residential mortgage production income declined $156 million compared with 2009 due to lower gains on sales in the current year, as originations declined and the proportion of loans sold decreased due to a decision in the third quarter of 2010 to retain a portion of 10 to 15 year fixed- and adjustable-rate mortgage production. Residential mortgage servicing income was relatively flat in 2010 compared to 2009, as growth in servicing fees of $36 million from an increase in the size of the loan servicing portfolio was offset by a $35 million unfavorable net change in the valuation for mortgage servicing rights and related economic hedging activities. Commercial mortgage banking income was up $21 million, or 46.7%, in 2010 due to improved market conditions. Mortgage banking income increased $383 million, or 139.3%, during 2009. This increase includes the net change in the mortgage servicing rights valuation, which resulted in an increase of $50 million compared to 2008. Mortgage banking income for 2008 included certain one-time items associated with the implementation of fair value accounting  

71  

Table of Contents 

 standards that benefited results by approximately $23 million. Excluding the impact of these items, mortgage banking income in 2009 increased $356 million compared to 2008. The growth in mortgage banking income in 2009 is primarily attributable to record production revenues from residential mortgage banking operations, generated by $28.2 billion in mortgage loan originations during 2009 compared to $16.4 billion during 2008.  

Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions increased $6 million, or 1.7%, compared to 2009. The increase in 2010 was largely driven by record fourth quarter performance as market conditions improved and BB&T Capital Markets, a division of Scott & Stringfellow, brought more equity and fixed income deals to market.  

Other nondeposit fees and commissions, including bankcard fees and merchant discounts and checkcard fees increased $109 million, or 17.8%, during 2010 compared to 2009. During 2009, these categories increased $71 million, or 13.1%, compared to 2008. The increases in 2010 and 2009 included additional checkcard fees of $47 million and $26 million, respectively, as clients continued to show a preference for utilizing electronic forms of payment rather than traditional paper checks, as well as the impact of the additional clients from Colonial. Bankcard fees also grew $21 million in 2010 compared to 2009 and $5 million in 2009 compared to 2008. The increased bankcard fees in 2010 were the result of higher volumes and improving market conditions. The growth for 2010 and 2009 in other nondeposit fees and commissions largely reflects additional revenues from commercial lending-related activities.  

Trust and investment advisory revenues are based on the types of services provided as well as the overall value of the assets managed, which is affected by stock market conditions. During 2010, trust and investment advisory revenues increased by $20 million, or 14.4%, compared to 2009, primarily due to fee increases and improved market conditions. During 2009, trust and investment advisory revenues decreased by $8 million, or 5.4%, compared to 2008.  

BB&T recognized $554 million in net securities gains during 2010 compared to net gains of $199 million and $107 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively. The net securities gains recognized in 2010 included $585 million of net gains realized from securities sales and $31 million of losses as a result of other-than-temporary impairments. The large increase in securities gains during 2010 reflects the results of the balance sheet deleveraging strategy that was executed during the second quarter of 2010 and the de-risking of the investment portfolio that began during the third quarter of 2010 and was completed in the fourth quarter. The net securities gains recognized in 2009 and 2008 included $240 million and $211 million, respectively, of net gains from securities sales and $41 million and $104 million of losses, respectively, as a result of other-than-temporary impairments.  

Income from the FDIC loss share receivable primarily reflects changes to the amounts expected to be recovered under the FDIC loss sharing agreements. During 2010, covered loans experienced better performance than originally anticipated resulting in additional interest income. A significant portion of that increase was offset by a $232 million reduction in noninterest income. This decrease in income was partially offset by an increase of $116 million, which reflected approximately 80% of the provision for credit losses recorded on covered loans.  

Other income, including income from bank-owned life insurance, decreased $122 million in 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to a $90 million increase in losses and write-downs on nonperforming commercial loans that were transferred to the loans held for sale portfolio in connection with management’s nonperforming asset disposition strategy. Trading gains at Scott & Stringfellow declined $25 million. Also, the prior year included a $27 million gain on the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business. The increase of $57 million in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily due to a $74 million increase in the value of various financial assets isolated for the purpose of providing post-employment benefits. The increase in the value of these assets is neutral to net income as these gains relate to participant’s accounts and increase personnel expense because they relate to the amount of benefits that will be paid in the future. In addition, trading gains at Scott & Stringfellow increased $25 million compared to 2008 and BB&T recognized a gain of $27 million on the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business. These increases were partially offset by $80 million in gains in 2008 related to BB&T’s ownership interest and sale of Visa, Inc. stock.  

72  

Table of Contents 

The ability to generate significant amounts of noninterest revenue in the future will be important to the continued financial success of BB&T. Through its subsidiaries, BB&T will continue to focus on asset management, mortgage banking, trust, insurance, investment banking and brokerage services, as well as other fee-producing products and services. BB&T plans to continue to pursue acquisitions of additional financial services companies, including insurance agencies and other fee income producing businesses as a means of expanding fee-based revenues. Also, among BB&T’s principal strategies following the acquisition of a financial institution is the cross-sell of noninterest income generating products and services to the acquired institution’s client base. Management expects that noninterest income excluding securities gains will be relatively flat in 2011 as a result of revenue challenges due to regulatory changes that are currently in effect or proposed to take effect during 2011. Management has estimated that noninterest revenue sources at risk as a result of various regulatory initiatives, including the Durbin Amendment and overdraft policy changes are in the range of $450 million on an annual run rate basis beginning in 2012. To date, management has implemented or identified changes in products and fees to offset approximately half of the potential lost revenue and is continuing to evaluate the Company’s product offerings in an effort to eliminate, as much as possible, the negative financial impacts of these regulatory changes.  

Noninterest Expense  

Noninterest expense totaled $5.7 billion in 2010, $4.9 billion in 2009 and $3.9 billion in 2008. Noninterest expense includes certain merger-related and restructuring charges recorded during the years 2010, 2009 and 2008 as noted in Table 21 below. These amounts totaled $69 million in 2010, $38 million in 2009 and $15 million in 2008. Additional disclosures related to these merger-related and restructuring charges are presented in “Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges.” The table below shows the components of noninterest expense and the discussion that follows explains the composition of certain categories and the factors that caused them to change in 2010 and 2009.  

73  

Table of Contents 

Table 20  

Noninterest Expense  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

NM—not meaningful  

The 15.0% and 26.1% increases in total noninterest expense during 2010 and 2009 were primarily due to increases in personnel costs, foreclosed property expense and professional services. In addition, 2009 reflects a significant increase in regulatory charges as a result of increased FDIC insurance premiums. The increases during 2010 and 2009 were impacted by the acquisitions of Colonial during 2009 and several nonbank financial services companies during 2008 through 2009.  

Total personnel expense is the largest component of noninterest expense and includes salaries and wages, as well as pension and other employee benefit costs. Total personnel expense increased $99 million, or 3.9%, in 2010. This increase was primarily driven by increases in salaries and wages of $153 million which includes the impact of acquisitions. This increase was partially offset by a $54 million decrease in pension plan expense. The decrease in pension expense was largely a result of an increase in the value of pension assets during 2009, which resulted in an increase in the estimated return on plan assets and a decrease in the amortization of net actuarial losses for 2010. The 2009 increase of 14.4% was partially driven by increases in salaries and wages of $137 million which included the impact of acquisitions. Other post-employment benefits expense and pension plan expense also increased $67 million and $66 million, respectively. The increase in pension expense was largely the result of a reduction in the discount rate, and an increase in the amortization of net actuarial losses. The increase in other post employment benefits expense was due to increases in the value of participant’s accounts and was offset by a similar increase in noninterest income. In addition, health care and other welfare expenses were higher by $36 million. Additional disclosures relating to BB&T’s benefit plans can be found in Note 15 “Benefit Plans” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Foreclosed property expense increased $391 million in 2010. Foreclosed property expense increased $277 million in 2009. The increases in 2010 and 2009 were primarily due to rising maintenance costs, valuation  

74  

Table of Contents 

 adjustments and sales of foreclosed property. Maintenance cost on foreclosed properties increased by $60 million and $67 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively, compared to the prior year, while valuation adjustments, including losses from sales of properties, increased by $331 million and $206 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. BB&T’s inventory of foreclosed property decreased by $192 million in 2010 after increasing by $913 million during 2009. The decline in inventory during 2010 reflects management’s more aggressive efforts to liquidate properties and improving markets for distressed assets.  

Net occupancy and equipment expense increased $29 million, or 5.0%, in 2010. During 2009, net occupancy and equipment expense increased by $70 million, or 13.8%. The increases in 2010 and 2009 were largely a result of increased rent expense related to the Colonial acquisition.  

Professional services expense increased $72 million, or 27.5%, in 2010. The increase in 2010 included a $30 million increase in legal fees primarily associated with problem loan and other credit related items. In addition, other professional services increased $42 million during 2010 related to various management initiatives. Professional services expense increased $58 million during 2009, which included $26 million in higher legal costs primarily due to credit related items and $32 million for other professional services.  

Regulatory charges declined by $19 million in 2010 after an increase of $200 million in 2009. The increase in 2009 was a result of higher FDIC insurance expense, which increased $201 million. The higher FDIC insurance expense reflects increased premiums charged by the FDIC as one step the FDIC has taken to insure adequate funding to resolve failed institutions. In addition to the higher premiums, the FDIC also levied a special assessment of $68 million in the second quarter of 2009. The FDIC also required that insured depository institutions prepay three years of assessments on December 31, 2009. BB&T’s prepayment was $608 million and will be expensed as incurred over the three-year period based on the actual FDIC assessment calculation.  

Loan processing expenses increased $45 million during 2010 compared to 2009. The 2010 increase includes additional costs related to the Colonial acquisition and a $23 million increase for losses and reserves related to future repurchases from BB&T’s investor owned servicing portfolio. BB&T has experienced an increase in repurchase activity in 2010, with $107 million of loan repurchases and indemnification payments in the current year compared with $33 million for the full year 2009. While these levels have increased, they remain modest compared to the industry. During 2009, loan processing expenses increased $10 million, primarily due to the Colonial acquisition.  

Other noninterest expenses increased $122 million, or 14.3%, compared to 2009, which reflected an increase of $89 million, or 11.7%, compared to 2008. The increase included the impact of $41 million in gains on the extinguishment of debt that were realized during 2009. In addition, merger-related and restructuring charges and software expense increased $31 million and $23 million, respectively, from the prior year. The increase in merger-related charges was primarily due to costs incurred in connection with the Colonial systems conversion. These increases were partially offset by a decline of $48 million in operational losses compared to the prior year. The 2009 increase was primarily the result of increases in merger-related and restructuring charges and software expense of $23 million and $20 million, respectively. In addition, the increase for 2009 included $43 million of additional operational losses compared to 2008. The increases for 2010 and 2009 were impacted by acquisitions completed during 2009. Please refer to Table 20 for additional detail on fluctuations in other categories of noninterest expense.  

Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges  

BB&T recorded certain merger-related and restructuring charges during the years 2010, 2009 and 2008. These charges are reflected in BB&T’s Consolidated Statements of Income as a category of noninterest expense. Please Refer to Note 2 “Business Combinations” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for a summary of mergers and acquisitions consummated during the three years ended December 31, 2010.  

During 2010, BB&T recorded $69 million of merger-related and restructuring charges. These amounts were primarily associated with the acquisition of Colonial and related systems conversions. The 2009 net merger-related and restructuring charges of $38 million were primarily associated with the acquisition of Colonial. During 2008, BB&T recorded merger-related and restructuring charges of $15 million. These expenses were primarily associated with the acquisitions of insurance agencies and other merger-related and restructuring activities.  

75  

Table of Contents 

The following table presents the components of merger-related and restructuring charges included in noninterest expenses. This table includes changes to previously recorded merger-related accruals and period expenses for merger-related items that must be expensed as incurred. Items that are required to be expensed as incurred include certain expenses associated with systems conversions, data processing, training and other costs.  

Table 21  

Summary of Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Severance and personnel-related costs or credits include severance, employee retention, payments related to change-in-control provisions of employment contracts, outplacement services and other benefits associated with employee termination or reversals of previously estimated amounts, which typically occur in corporate support and data processing functions. Occupancy and equipment charges or credits represent merger-related and restructuring costs or gains associated with lease terminations, obsolete equipment write-offs, and the sale of duplicate facilities and equipment. Credits may result if obsolete properties or equipment are sold for more than originally estimated. Other merger-related and restructuring charges or credits include expenses necessary to convert and combine the acquired branches and operations of merged companies, direct media advertising related to the acquisitions, asset and supply inventory write-offs, litigation accruals, and other similar charges.  

Merger-related and restructuring accruals are established when the costs are incurred or once all requirements for a plan to dispose of certain business functions have been approved by management. In general, a major portion of accrued costs are utilized in conjunction with or immediately following the systems conversion, when most of the duplicate positions are eliminated and the terminated employees begin to receive severance. Other accruals are utilized over time based on the sale, closing or disposal of duplicate facilities or equipment or the expiration of lease contracts. Merger and restructuring accruals are re-evaluated periodically and adjusted as necessary. The remaining accruals at December 31, 2010 are expected to be utilized during 2011, unless they relate to specific contracts that expire in later years. The following tables present a summary of activity with respect to BB&T’s merger and restructuring accruals. These tables include costs reflected as expenses, as presented in the table above, and certain accruals recorded through purchase accounting adjustments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

76  

Table of Contents 

Provision for Income Taxes  

BB&T’s provision for income taxes totaled $115 million for 2010, a decrease of $44 million, or 27.7%, compared to 2009. The decline in the provision for income taxes during 2010 was largely due to lower pre-tax income, higher federal tax credits and higher tax-exempt income. The provision for income taxes totaled $159 million in 2009 and $550 million in 2008. The decline in the provision for income taxes during 2009 was also primarily due to lower pre-tax income and higher federal tax credits and tax exempt income. The variances in the provision for income taxes during 2010 and 2009 were also affected by the treatment of leveraged lease transactions as discussed below. BB&T’s effective tax rates for the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008 were 11.9%, 15.3% and 26.5%, respectively. A reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the statutory tax rate is included in Note 14 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein.  

BB&T has extended credit to, and invested in, the obligations of states and municipalities and their agencies, and has made other investments and loans that produce tax-exempt income. The income generated from these investments together with certain other transactions that have favorable tax treatment have reduced BB&T’s overall effective tax rate from the statutory rate in 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

BB&T continually monitors and evaluates the potential impact of current events and circumstances on the estimates and assumptions used in the analysis of its income tax positions and, accordingly, BB&T’s effective tax rate may fluctuate in the future. On a periodic basis, BB&T evaluates its income tax positions based on tax laws and regulations and financial reporting considerations, and records adjustments as appropriate. This evaluation takes into consideration the status of current taxing authorities’ examinations of BB&T’s tax returns, recent positions taken by the taxing authorities on similar transactions, if any, and the overall tax environment in relation to tax-advantaged transactions. Accordingly, the results of these examinations may alter the timing or amount of taxable income or deductions or the allocation of income among tax jurisdictions. In February 2010, BB&T received a statutory notice of deficiency from the IRS for tax years 2002-2007 asserting a liability for taxes, penalties and interest of approximately $892 million related to the disallowance of foreign tax credits and other deductions claimed by a deconsolidated subsidiary in connection with a financing transaction. Management has consulted with outside counsel and continues to believe that BB&T’s treatment of this transaction was in compliance with applicable tax laws and regulations. BB&T paid the disputed tax, penalties and interest in the first quarter of 2010 and filed a lawsuit seeking a refund in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in March 2010. Management believes the Company’s current reserves for this matter are adequate, although the final outcome is uncertain. Final resolution of this matter is not expected to occur within the next twelve months. Various years remain subject to examination by state taxing authorities. Please refer to Note 14 “Income Taxes” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s unresolved tax issues related to tax examinations by the IRS and other taxing authorities.  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, BB&T agreed to treat its leveraged leases in accordance with the IRS’s proposal that, among other things, allows 20% of deductions, imputes interest income and deems the remaining transactions to be terminated as of December 31, 2008. As a result of this settlement, BB&T recognized pre-tax interest from the IRS of $93 million, or $60 million after-tax, which is reflected as a reduction in tax expense. As a result of changes in the timing of tax payments, a recalculation of each transaction was required that resulted in a $67 million charge to interest income and a corresponding $24 million tax benefit. As part of the IRS proposal, all gains on leases terminated prior to December 31, 2010 are treated as nontaxable. During 2009, BB&T terminated a number of leveraged lease transactions, which resulted in tax benefits of $18 million.  

Market Risk Management  

The effective management of market risk is essential to achieving BB&T’s strategic financial objectives. As a financial institution, BB&T’s most significant market risk exposure is interest rate risk; however, market risk also includes product liquidity risk, price risk and volatility risk. The primary objectives of interest rate risk management are to minimize any adverse effect that changes in interest rates may have on net interest income, and to offset the risk of price changes for certain assets recorded at fair value. These are accomplished through active management of asset and liability portfolios with a focus on the strategic pricing of asset and liability accounts and management of appropriate maturity mixes of assets and liabilities. The goal of these activities is the development of appropriate maturity and repricing opportunities in BB&T’s portfolios of assets and liabilities  

77  

Table of Contents 

 that will produce consistent net interest income during periods of changing interest rates. BB&T’s Market Risk and Liquidity Committee monitors loan, investment and liability portfolios to ensure comprehensive management of interest rate risk. These portfolios are analyzed for proper fixed-rate and variable-rate mixes under various interest rate scenarios.  

BB&T’s interest rate sensitivity is illustrated in the following table. The table reflects rate-sensitive positions at December 31, 2010, and is not necessarily indicative of positions on other dates. The carrying amounts of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities are presented in the periods in which they next reprice to market rates or mature and are aggregated to show the interest rate sensitivity gap. To reflect anticipated prepayments, certain asset and liability categories are shown in the table using estimated cash flows rather than contractual cash flows.  

Table 22  

Interest Rate Sensitivity Gap Analysis  

December 31, 2010  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Securities based on amortized cost.  

 (2)   Loans and leases include loans held for sale and are net of unearned income.  

 (3)   Projected runoff of deposits that do not have a contractual maturity date was computed based upon decay rate assumptions developed by bank regulators to assist banks in addressing FDICIA rule 305.  

 (4)   The maturity periods have been adjusted to reflect the impact of hedging strategies.  

The asset/liability management process is designed to achieve relatively stable net interest margins and assure liquidity by coordinating the volumes, maturities or repricing opportunities of earning assets, deposits and borrowed funds. It is the responsibility of the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee to determine and achieve the most appropriate volume and mix of earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, as well as to ensure an adequate level of liquidity and capital, within the context of corporate performance goals. The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee also sets policy guidelines and establishes long-term strategies with respect to interest rate risk exposure and liquidity. The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee meets regularly to review BB&T’s interest rate risk and liquidity positions in relation to present and prospective market and business conditions, and adopts funding and balance sheet management strategies that are intended to ensure that the potential impact on earnings and liquidity as a result of fluctuations in interest rates is within acceptable standards.  

78  

Table of Contents 

BB&T uses a variety of financial instruments to manage various financial risks. These instruments, commonly referred to as derivatives, primarily consist of interest-rate swaps, swaptions, caps, floors, collars, financial forward and futures contracts, when-issued securities and options written and purchased. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage risk related to securities, business loans, Federal funds purchased, other overnight funding, long-term debt, mortgage servicing rights, mortgage banking operations and certificates of deposit. BB&T also uses derivatives to facilitate transactions on behalf of its clients. BB&T’s derivatives produced benefits to net interest income of $175 million during 2010, $209 million during 2009 and $101 million in 2008. The fluctuations in benefits to net interest income from derivative activities between 2010 and 2009 were primarily the result of benefits received on interest rate swaps on commercial loans.  

Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts. Notional amounts only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and do not represent amounts to be exchanged between parties, and are not a measure of financial risk. On December 31, 2010, BB&T had derivative financial instruments outstanding with notional amounts totaling $65.4 billion. The estimated net fair value of open contracts was a loss of $69 million at December 31, 2010.  

See Note 20 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures.  

Impact of Inflation and Changing Interest Rates  

The majority of BB&T’s assets and liabilities are monetary in nature and, therefore, differ greatly from most commercial and industrial companies that have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories. Fluctuations in interest rates and actions of the Federal Reserve Board to regulate the availability and cost of credit have a greater effect on a financial institution’s profitability than do the effects of higher costs for goods and services. Through its balance sheet management function, which is monitored by the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee, management believes that BB&T is positioned to respond to changing needs for liquidity, changes in interest rates and inflationary trends.  

Management uses Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis (“Simulation”) to measure the sensitivity of projected earnings to changes in interest rates. The Simulation model projects net interest income and interest rate risk for a rolling two-year period of time. Simulation takes into account the current contractual agreements that BB&T has made with its customers on deposits, borrowings, loans, investments and commitments to enter into those transactions. Furthermore, the Simulation considers the impact of expected customer behavior. Management monitors BB&T’s interest sensitivity by means of a computer model that incorporates the current volumes, average rates earned and paid, and scheduled maturities and payments of asset and liability portfolios, together with multiple scenarios of projected prepayments, repricing opportunities and anticipated volume growth. Using this information, the model projects earnings based on projected portfolio balances under multiple interest rate scenarios. This level of detail is needed to simulate the effect that changes in interest rates and portfolio balances may have on the earnings of BB&T. This method is subject to the accuracy of the assumptions that underlie the process, but management believes that it provides a better illustration of the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates than other analyses such as static or dynamic gap. In addition to Simulation analysis, BB&T uses Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”) analysis to focus on changes in capital given potential changes in interest rates. This measure also allows BB&T to analyze interest rate risk that falls outside the analysis window contained in the Simulation model. The EVE model is a discounted cash flow of the entire portfolio of BB&T’s assets, liabilities, and derivatives instruments. The difference in the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities is defined as the economic value of BB&T’s equity.  

The asset/liability management process requires a number of key assumptions. Management determines the most likely outlook for the economy and interest rates by analyzing external factors, including published economic projections and data, the effects of likely monetary and fiscal policies, as well as any enacted or prospective regulatory changes. BB&T’s current and prospective liquidity position, current balance sheet volumes and projected growth, accessibility of funds for short-term needs and capital maintenance are also considered. This data is combined with various interest rate scenarios to provide management with the information necessary to analyze interest sensitivity and to aid in the development of strategies to reach performance goals.  

79  

Table of Contents 

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on net interest income as projected for the next twelve months under the “most likely” interest rate scenario incorporated into the Simulation model. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, deposit sensitivity, customer preferences and capital plans. The resulting change in interest sensitive income reflects the level of sensitivity that interest sensitive income has in relation to changing interest rates.  

Table 23  

Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Market Risk and Liquidity Committee has established parameters measuring interest sensitivity that prescribe a maximum negative impact on net interest income of 2% for the next 12 months for a linear change of 100 basis points over four months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining eight month period, and a maximum negative impact of 4% for a linear change of 200 basis points over eight months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining four month period. In the event that the results of the Simulation model fall outside the established parameters, management will make recommendations to the Market Risk and Liquidity Committee on the most appropriate response given the current economic forecast. Management currently only modeled a 25 basis point decline because larger declines would have resulted in a Federal funds rate of less than zero.  

The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in interest rates would have on EVE as projected under the “most likely” interest rate scenario incorporated into the EVE model. Key assumptions in the preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mortgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, and deposit sensitivity. The resulting change in the economic value of equity reflects the level of sensitivity that EVE has in relation to changing interest rates.  

Table 24  

Economic Value of Equity (“EVE”) Simulation Analysis  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Liquidity  

Liquidity represents BB&T’s continuing ability to meet funding needs, primarily deposit withdrawals, timely repayment of borrowings and other liabilities, and funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as trading securities and securities available for sale, many other factors affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity in national money markets, growing core deposits, the repayment of loans and the capability to securitize or package loans for sale.  

80  

Table of Contents 

The purpose of the Parent Company is to serve as the capital financing vehicle for the operating subsidiaries. The assets of the Parent Company consist primarily of cash on deposit with Branch Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, accounts receivable from subsidiaries, and other miscellaneous assets. The principal obligations of the Parent Company are principal and interest on master notes, long-term debt, and redeemable capital securities. The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are dividends and management fees from subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and master notes. The primary uses of funds by the Parent Company are for investments in subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend payments to shareholders, retirement of common stock and interest and principal payments due on long-term debt and master notes.  

The primary source of funds used for Parent Company cash requirements was dividends received from subsidiaries, which totaled $666 million during 2010. In addition, the Parent Company issued $500 million of senior notes during 2010. Funds raised through master note agreements with commercial clients are placed in a note receivable at Branch Bank primarily for its use in meeting short-term funding needs and, to a lesser extent, to support the short-term temporary cash needs of the Parent Company. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, master note balances totaled $806 million and $1.0 billion, respectively.  

The Parent Company had six issues of senior notes outstanding totaling $3.3 billion and five issues of subordinated notes outstanding totaling $3.0 billion at December 31, 2010. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, the Parent Company had $3.3 billion of junior subordinated debentures outstanding to unconsolidated trusts. Please refer to Note 11 “Long-Term Debt” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information with respect to these senior notes, subordinated notes and junior subordinated debentures.  

Branch Bank has several major sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements, including access to capital markets through issuance of senior or subordinated bank notes and institutional certificates of deposit, access to the FHLB system, dealer repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements with commercial clients, participation in the Treasury, Tax and Loan program with the Federal Reserve Bank, access to the overnight and term Federal funds markets, use of a Cayman branch facility, access to retail brokered certificates of deposit and a borrower in custody program with the Federal Reserve Bank for the discount window. As of December 31, 2010, BB&T has approximately $25 billion of secured borrowing capacity, which represents approximately 201% of one year wholesale funding maturities.  

81  

Table of Contents 

BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s ability to raise funding at competitive prices is affected by the rating agencies’ views of BB&T’s and Branch Bank’s credit quality, liquidity, capital and earnings. Management meets with the rating agencies on a routine basis to discuss the current outlook for BB&T and Branch Bank. The ratings for BB&T and Branch Bank by the four major rating agencies are detailed in the table below.  

Table 25  

Credit Ratings of BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank  

December 31, 2010  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T, Branch Bank and BB&T FSB have Contingency Funding Plans (“CFPs”) designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet their ongoing obligations and commitments, particularly in the event of a liquidity contraction. The CFPs are designed to examine and quantify the organization’s liquidity under various “stress” scenarios. Additionally, the CFPs provide a framework for management and other critical personnel to follow in the event of a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of such an event. The CFPs address authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options and the responsibilities of key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction.  

Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet BB&T’s current requirements and plans for continued growth. See Note 6 “Premises and Equipment,” Note 11 “Long-Term Debt” and Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for additional information regarding outstanding balances of sources of liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations.  

82  

Table of Contents 

Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingent Liabilities, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, and Related Party Transactions  

The following table presents, as of December 31, 2010, BB&T’s significant fixed and determinable contractual obligations by payment date. The payment amounts represent those amounts contractually due to the recipient. The table excludes liabilities recorded where management cannot reasonably estimate the timing of any payments that may be required in connection with these liabilities. Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

Table 26  

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments  

December 31, 2010  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

BB&T’s significant commitments include certain investments in affordable housing and historic building rehabilitation projects throughout its market area. BB&T enters into such arrangements as a means of supporting local communities and recognizes tax credits relating to these investments. At December 31, 2010, BB&T’s investments in such projects totaled $1.2 billion, which includes outstanding commitments of $334 million. BB&T typically acts as a limited partner in these investments and does not exert control over the operating or financial policies of the partnerships. Branch Bank typically provides financing during the construction and development of the properties; however, permanent financing is generally obtained from independent third parties upon completion of a project. As of December 31, 2010, BB&T had $135 million in loan commitments outstanding related to these projects, of which $36 million had been funded. BB&T’s risk exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and loan commitments made. Please refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” for further discussion of these investments in limited partnerships.  

In addition, BB&T enters into derivative contracts to manage various financial risks. A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. Derivative contracts are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with the fair value representing the net present value of expected future cash receipts or payments based on market interest rates as of the balance sheet date. Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts, which only provide the basis for calculating payments between counterparties and are not a measure of financial risk. Therefore, the derivative liabilities recorded on the balance sheet as of December 31, 2010 do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid under these contracts. Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 20 “Derivative Financial Instruments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities arising from litigation. BB&T also issues standard representation and warranties in underwriting agreements, merger and acquisition agreements, loan sales, brokerage activities and other similar arrangements. Counterparties in many of these indemnifications provide similar indemnifications to BB&T. Although these agreements often do not specify limitations, BB&T does not believe that any payments related to these guarantees would materially change the financial condition or results of operations of BB&T.  

83  

Table of Contents 

BB&T holds public funds in certain states that do not require 100% collateralization on public fund bank deposits. In these states, should the failure of another public fund depository institution result in a loss for the public entity, the resulting shortfall would have to be absorbed on a pro-rata basis by the remaining financial institutions holding public funds in that state.  

BB&T has investments and future funding commitments to certain venture capital funds. As of December 31, 2010, BB&T had investments of $266 million related to these ventures and future funding commitments of $185 million. BB&T’s risk exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and future funding commitments made.  

Merger and acquisition agreements of businesses other than financial institutions occasionally include additional incentives to the acquired entities to offset the loss of future cash flows previously received through ownership positions. Typically, these incentives are based on the acquired entity’s contribution to BB&T’s earnings compared to agreed-upon amounts. When offered, these incentives are typically issued for terms of three to five years. As certain provisions of these agreements do not specify dollar limitations, it is not possible to quantify the maximum exposure resulting from these agreements.  

As a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta (“FHLB”), BB&T is required to maintain a minimum investment in capital stock. The board of directors of the FHLB can increase the minimum investment requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital is required to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements. Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Because the extent of any obligation to increase BB&T’s investment in the FHLB depends entirely upon the occurrence of a future event, potential future payments to the FHLB are not determinable.  

In the normal course of business, BB&T is also a party to financial instruments to meet the financing needs of clients and to mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. Such financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and certain contractual agreements, including standby letters of credit and financial guarantee arrangements. Further discussion of these commitments is included in Note 16 “Commitments and Contingencies” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  

BB&T’s significant commitments and obligations are summarized in the accompanying table. Not all of the commitments presented in the table will be used thus the actual cash requirements are likely to be significantly less than the amounts reported.  

Table 27  

Summary of Significant Commitments  

December 31, 2010  

(Dollars in millions)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Other commitments include unfunded business loan commitments, unfunded overdraft protection on demand deposit accounts and other unfunded commitments to lend.  

Related Party Transactions  

The Corporation may extend credit to certain officers and directors in the ordinary course of business. These loans are made under substantially the same terms as comparable third-party lending arrangements and are in compliance with applicable banking regulations.  

Capital  

The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis. BB&T’s principal goals related to the maintenance of capital are to provide adequate capital to support  

84  

Table of Contents 

 BB&T’s comprehensive risk profile, preserve a sufficient capital base from which to support future growth, provide a competitive return to shareholders, comply with regulatory standards and achieve optimal credit ratings for BB&T and its subsidiaries.  

Management regularly monitors the capital position of BB&T on a consolidated basis. In this regard, management’s overriding policy is to maintain capital at levels that will result in BB&T being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes and to maintain sufficient capital relative to the Corporation’s level of risk. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain consolidated capital levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with BB&T’s peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. Management particularly monitors and intends to maintain the following minimum capital ratios:  

Table 28  

BB&T’s Internal Capital Guidelines  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Payments of cash dividends to BB&T’s shareholders and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any excess capital generated. In addition, management closely monitors the Parent Company’s double leverage ratio (investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders’ equity) with the intention of maintaining the ratio below 125.0%. The active management of the subsidiaries’ equity capital, as described above, is the process used to manage this important driver of Parent Company liquidity and is a key element in the management of BB&T’s capital position.  

The capital of BB&T’s subsidiaries is regularly monitored to determine if the levels that management believes are the most beneficial and efficient for their operations are maintained. Management intends to maintain capital at Branch Bank and BB&T FSB at levels that will result in these subsidiaries being classified as “well-capitalized” for regulatory purposes. Secondarily, it is management’s intent to maintain Branch Bank’s capital at levels that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. If the capital levels of Branch Bank increase above these guidelines, excess capital may be transferred to the Parent Company, subject to regulatory and other operating considerations, in the form of special dividend payments.  

While nonrecurring events or management decisions may result in the Corporation temporarily falling below its minimum guidelines for one or more of these ratios, it is management’s intent through capital planning to return to these targeted minimums within a reasonable period of time. Such temporary decreases below these minimums are not considered an infringement of BB&T’s overall capital policy provided the Corporation and Branch Bank remain “well-capitalized.”  

Capital Adequacy and Resources  

Financial holding companies and their banking subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements with respect to risk-based capital adequacy. Capital adequacy is an important indicator of financial stability and performance.  

Risk-based capital ratios measure capital as a percentage of a combination of risk-weighted balance sheet and off-balance sheet risk. The risk-weighted values of both balance sheet and off-balance sheet items are determined in accordance with risk factors specified by Federal bank regulatory pronouncements. As of December 31, 2010, federal bank regulators did not prescribe measures of tangible capital and, therefore, these measures were considered non-GAAP. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the SCAP assessment to calculate measures of tangible capital and Tier 1 common capital. BB&T’s management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies.  

Tier 1 capital is calculated as common shareholders’ equity, excluding the over- or underfunded status of postretirement benefit obligations, unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sale, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of deferred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital securities, less nonqualifying intangible assets, net of  

85  

Table of Contents 

 applicable deferred income taxes, and certain nonfinancial equity investments. Tier 2 capital may consist of qualifying subordinated debt, certain hybrid capital instruments, qualifying preferred stock and a limited amount of the allowance for credit losses. Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital combined are referred to as total regulatory capital. Tier 1 capital is required to be at least 4% of risk-weighted assets, and total capital must be at least 8% of risk-weighted assets, with one half of the minimum consisting of Tier 1 capital.  

Current provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will result in the elimination, over a manageable period of time, of certain capital securities from inclusion in Tier 1 capital. BB&T currently has approximately $3.2 billion of capital securities that qualify as Tier 1 capital. In addition, as discussed in the section titled “Regulatory Considerations”, the regulators are currently evaluating the adoption of new Basel III capital standards. Based on a review of the proposed standards, management believes it will meet the required capital levels. As of December 31, 2010, management’s current projection of Tier 1 common under Basel III was 7.5%.  

In addition to the risk-based capital measures described above, regulators have also established minimum leverage capital requirements for banking organizations. The minimum required Tier 1 leverage ratio ranges from 3% to 5% depending upon Federal bank regulatory agency evaluations of an organization’s overall safety and soundness. BB&T’s regulatory and tangible capital ratios are set forth in the following table.  

Table 29  

Capital—Components and Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity ratios are non-GAAP measures. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the SCAP assessment to calculate these ratios. BB&T's management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies.  

86  

Table of Contents 

 (2)   Risk-weighted assets are determined based on regulatory capital requirements. Under the regulatory framework for determining risk-weighted assets each asset class is assigned a risk-weighting of 0%, 20%, 50% or 100% based on the underlying risk of the specific asset class. In addition, off balance sheet exposures are first converted to a balance sheet equivalent amount and subsequently assigned to one of the four risk-weightings.  

As further described below and reflected in the table, BB&T has entered into a transaction involving the issuance of capital securities (“Capital Securities”) by a Delaware statutory trust formed by the Company (the “Trust”). Simultaneously with the closing of this transaction, BB&T entered into a replacement capital covenant (the “Replacement Capital Covenant”) for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of long-term indebtedness of the Company or its largest depository institution subsidiary (the “Specified Debt”). The Replacement Capital Covenant provides that neither BB&T nor any of its subsidiaries (including the Trust) will repay, redeem or purchase any of the Capital Securities and the securities held by the Trust (the “Other Securities”), as applicable, on or before the date specified in the Replacement Capital Covenant, with certain limited exceptions, except to the extent that, during the 180 days prior to the date of that repayment, redemption or purchase, the Company has received proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities that (i) have equity-like characteristics that are the same as, or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the Capital Securities or Other Securities, as applicable, at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase, and (ii) the Company has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, if such approval is then required by the Federal Reserve Board.  

The following table identifies the (i) closing date for the transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of Capital Securities issued, (iv) Other Securities, and (v) applicable Specified Debt.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Common Stock and Dividends  

BB&T’s ability to pay dividends is primarily dependent on earnings from operations, the adequacy of capital and the availability of liquid assets for distribution. BB&T’s ability to generate liquid assets for distribution is dependent on the ability of Branch Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Company. The payment of cash dividends is an integral part of providing a competitive return on shareholders’ investments. The Corporation’s policy is to accomplish this while retaining sufficient capital to support future growth and to meet regulatory requirements. Management has established a guideline that during normal economic conditions the common dividend payout ratio will be between 30% and 50% of basic earnings per share. BB&T’s common dividend payout ratio, computed by dividing dividends declared per common share by basic earnings per common share, was 50.85% in 2010 compared to 79.31% in 2009. BB&T’s payout ratio was higher in 2009 due to lower earnings during the worst part of the economic recession and a higher dividend-rate in the first quarter of 2009. The dividend was reduced to its current quarterly rate in the second quarter of 2009. Decreasing the dividend at that time was necessary due to the continuing poor economic conditions and preserved approximately $725 million of capital per year based on the shares outstanding at the time of the decision. BB&T has paid a cash dividend to shareholders every year since 1903. A discussion of dividend restrictions is included in Note 17 “Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” and in the “Regulatory Considerations” section.  

BB&T’s common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “BBT”. BB&T’s common stock was held by approximately 355,000 shareholders at December 31, 2010 compared to approximately 381,000 at December 31, 2009. The accompanying table, “Quarterly Summary of Market Prices and Dividends Paid on Common Stock,” sets forth the quarterly high and low trading prices and closing sales prices for BB&T’s common stock and the dividends paid per share of common stock for each of the last eight quarters.  

87  

Table of Contents 

Table 30  

Quarterly Summary of Market Prices and Cash Dividends Declared on Common Stock  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Share Repurchases  

BB&T has periodically repurchased shares of its own common stock. In accordance with North Carolina law, repurchased shares cannot be held as treasury stock, but revert to the status of authorized and unissued shares upon repurchase.  

On June 27, 2006, BB&T’s Board of Directors granted authority under a plan (the “2006 Plan”) for the repurchase of up to 50 million shares of BB&T’s common stock as needed for general corporate purposes. The 2006 Plan also authorizes the repurchase of the remaining shares from the previous authorization. The 2006 Plan remains in effect until all the authorized shares are repurchased unless modified by the Board of Directors. No shares were repurchased in connection with the 2006 Plan during 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

Table 31  

Share Repurchase Activity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Repurchases reflect shares exchanged or surrendered in connection with the exercise of equity-based awards under BB&T’s equity-based compensation plans.  

 (2)   Excludes commissions.  

Segment Results  

BB&T’s operations are divided into seven reportable business segments: Community Banking, Residential Mortgage Banking, Sales Finance, Specialized Lending, Insurance Services, Financial Services and Treasury. These operating segments have been identified based primarily on BB&T’s organizational structure. See Note 22 “Operating Segments” in the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” herein for additional disclosures related to BB&T’s operating segments, the internal accounting and reporting practices used to manage these segments and financial disclosures for these segments. Fluctuations in noninterest income and noninterest expense incurred directly by the segments are more fully discussed in the “Noninterest Income” and “Noninterest Expense” sections of this discussion and analysis.  

88  

Table of Contents 

Community Banking  

The Community Banking network had 1,782 banking offices at the end of 2010, a decrease of 75 offices compared to 1,857 banking offices at December 31, 2009. The decrease in offices resulted primarily from the closing of overlapping banking offices related to the acquisition of Colonial.  

Community Banking had solid organic deposit growth during 2010, while the loan portfolios declined slightly due to weak economic conditions and the lack of strong demand for lending products. Net income attributable to Community Banking decreased $211 million, or 47.1%, to $237 million compared to 2009, primarily as a result of foreclosed property expenses, as well as problem loan administration expense. Comparing 2009 to 2008, net income in Community Banking decreased $604 million, or 57.4% to $448 million.  

Net interest income for Community Banking totaled $3.8 billion in 2010 compared to $3.6 billion in 2009. Growth in net interest income was primarily due to an increase of $137 million in net interest income from clients and an increase of $72 million in net funds transfer pricing (“FTP”) provided to Community Banking during 2010. The increase in net interest income from clients in 2010 was primarily due to improvements in the deposit mix specifically related to a decrease in client certificates of deposits. The increase in net interest income as a result of the improvement in deposit mix was partially offset by the impact of historically low interest rates, as well as elevated nonaccrual balances, on interest income from loans. Net interest income earned for 2009 rose by $394 million, or 12.2%, compared to 2008. The increase in the net interest income was primarily due to higher FTP provided to Community Banking during 2009.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses declined by $82 million, or 4.4%, to $1.8 billion in 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting improvement in the outlook on credit quality. The economic provision for loan and lease losses increased $1.0 billion, or 123.1%, from 2008 to 2009. The increase during 2009 reflected deterioration in the residential acquisition and development portfolio.  

Noninterest income in Community Banking decreased $25 million, or 2.0%, to $1.3 billion in 2010, primarily due to lower overdraft fees, along with losses on commercial loans held for sale, partially offset by increases in checkcard fees, bankcard fees and merchant discounts and account analysis fees. In 2009, noninterest income increased $41 million, or 3.3%, driven primarily by the Colonial acquisition, which contributed $44 million in noninterest income to Community Banking. Noninterest income allocated from other segments, which is reflected as intersegment net referral fees (“referral fees”), declined by $53 million, or 11.5% in 2010, primarily due to lower referrals for residential mortgage lending as originations slowed. Noninterest income allocated from other segments of $461 million in 2009 was $207 million, or 81.5% higher than 2008, driven primarily by higher referrals for mortgage lending.  

Noninterest expenses incurred by Community Banking during 2010 increased $427 million, or 20.5%, to $2.5 billion compared to 2009. The increase was primarily due to foreclosed property expenses and problem loan administration expense, along with increases in compensation, fringe benefit, and FDIC insurance costs. Comparing 2009 to 2008, noninterest expenses increased $535 million, or 34.7%. The acquisition of the Colonial branches created $160 million of additional noninterest expense in 2009 for Community Banking. The remaining increase of $375 million was primarily due to the increase in foreclosed property expenses and FDIC insurance premiums. Allocated corporate expenses increased $128 million, or 18.3%, to $827 million in 2010, primarily due to increases in loan administration expense, IT services and operations. Comparing 2009 to 2008, allocated corporate expenses declined by $1 million, or 0.1%.  

Total identifiable assets for Community Banking decreased $2.4 billion in 2010, or 3.9%, to $60.4 billion, compared to a decrease of $2.0 billion, or 3.1%, in 2009. The loan portfolios declined due to the sale of specific nonperforming commercial loans, the general economic conditions, and lack of strong demand for lending products during 2010.  

Residential Mortgage Banking  

BB&T’s mortgage originations totaled $24.9 billion in 2010, down 11.7% from a record $28.2 billion in 2009. BB&T’s residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which includes portfolio loans on BB&T’s balance sheet and  

89  

Table of Contents 

 loans serviced for third parties, totaled $83.6 billion at year-end 2010 compared to $73.6 billion at December 31, 2009. The Residential Mortgage Banking segment experienced a net loss of $46 million in 2010, compared to net income of $206 million in 2009. This decline was primarily due to a significant increase in the economic provision for loan and lease losses. Net income in 2009 increased by $76 million, or 58.5%, as a result of strong growth in loan originations during the year.  

Net interest income for the Residential Mortgage Banking segment totaled $326 million in 2010, down 5.0%, compared to $343 million in 2009. Net interest income in 2009 was up 13.2% compared to 2008. The decrease in net interest income in 2010 was primarily the result of a decline in average portfolio loan balances. The increase in net interest income in 2009 was primarily the result of growth in the loans held for sale portfolio and associated lower funding costs.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses was $570 million for 2010, up $237 million, or 71.2%, compared to $333 million in 2009. Growth in the provision reflected higher losses in 2010, including $141 million of net charge-offs as a result of the sale of problem loans in connection with management’s nonperforming asset disposition strategy.  

Noninterest income in the Residential Mortgage Banking segment declined $150 million, or 24.7%, to $457 million in 2010. This decrease is due to lower residential mortgage production revenues compared to a record year in 2009. Noninterest income was up $383 million, or 171.0%, in 2009 compared to 2008. Higher mortgage originations, as well as improved economic hedge performance of the mortgage servicing asset, were primary responsible for this increase. Noninterest expenses incurred in 2010 within the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased $23 million, or 18.0%, to $151 million compared to 2009, primarily reflecting higher foreclosed property expense, as well as an increase in provision expense associated with loan repurchases. Noninterest expenses for 2009 were up $44 million, or 52.4%, as compared to 2008, primarily due to higher incentives related to strong sales performance, as well as higher loan origination costs.  

Total identifiable assets of $22.2 billion for the Residential Mortgage Banking segment increased $3.1 billion, or 16.4%. This followed a slight decrease in identifiable assets in 2009. Increases in mortgage loans were due to growth in loans held for investment by year-end 2010.  

Sales Finance  

Net income from the Sales Finance segment was $37 million in 2010, up from a net loss of $12 million in 2009. This increase is primarily attributable to growth in average loan balances and a significantly lower economic provision for loan and lease losses. Net income for 2008 was $19 million.  

Net interest income from the Sales Finance segment increased by $22 million, or 17.6%, to $147 million in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase in net interest income was primarily due to record loan production and an improved net interest margin during a lower interest rate environment. During 2009, net interest income increased by $5 million, or 4.2%, to $125 million compared to 2008. This increase was due to growth in the indirect recreational and marine vehicle portfolio, as well as the acquisition of an indirect automobile loan portfolio in mid-2009.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses of $34 million was down 62.2% in 2010 after a 125.0% increase to $90 million in 2009. The decrease in 2010 reflects lower loan loss rates as a result of lower early defaults and improved auction results.  

The Sales Finance segment was assessed referral fees of $13 million in 2010 and 2009 to compensate Community Banking for services. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Sales Finance segment increased by only 3.2% to $32 million in 2010 due to slowing problem loan-related activities after increasing 10.7% during 2009. Allocated corporate expenses decreased by $3 million, or 25.0%, in 2010 compared to previous years.  

Total identifiable assets for the Sales Finance segment of $6.8 billion increased $683 million, or 11.1%, compared to 2009, reflecting the strong growth in lending activities coming off of a prior year increase of $14 million, or 0.2%.  

90  

Table of Contents 

Specialized Lending  

BB&T’s Specialized Lending segment continued to expand during 2010 through strong organic growth and significantly lower loan and lease losses. Net income from the Specialized Lending segment was $226 million for 2010, up 425.6% compared to 2009. The increase in net income was driven by improved credit performance in the segment’s consumer lending and equipment finance businesses and strong growth in net interest income. Net income in 2009 of $43 million was up $23 million, or 115.0%, compared to 2008, primarily due to organic loan growth and asset portfolio purchases during the year.  

Net interest income totaled $712 million in 2010, an increase of 17.7% compared to 2009. Comparing 2009 to 2008, net interest income increased 21.2% to $605 million. The growth in net interest income in 2010 was a result of strong portfolio growth and expansion in the net interest margin. Net interest income growth in 2009 was primarily driven by growth in the commercial insurance premium finance and consumer subprime auto loan portfolios. Average loans for the Specialized Lending segment grew by $637 million, or 8.9%, to $7.8 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. Average loan growth for the segment was $1.6 billion, or 29.6%, in 2009 compared to 2008.  

The economic provision for loan and lease losses totaled $155 million in 2010, a decrease of $177 million, or 53.3%, compared to 2009. Comparing 2009 to 2008, the economic provision for loan and lease losses increased $31 million, or 10.3%. The decline in the provision for 2010 was primarily attributable to improved credit performance in the subprime auto loan and equipment finance portfolios. Due to the overall higher credit risk profiles of some of the clients of Specialized Lending, loss rates are expected to be higher than conventional bank lending. Loss rates are also affected by shifts in the portfolio mix of the underlying subsidiaries.  

Noninterest income produced by the Specialized Lending segment totaled $143 million in 2010, an increase of $24 million, or 20.2%, compared to 2009. Comparing 2009 to 2008, noninterest income increased $3 million, or 2.6%. Noninterest expenses incurred within the Specialized Lending segment in 2010 totaled $293 million, an increase of $8 million, or 2.8%, compared to 2009. Comparing 2009 to 2008, noninterest expenses totaled $285 million, an increase of $40 million, or 16.3%. The increases in noninterest expenses incurred within the Specialized Lending segment were driven by internal growth.  

Total identifiable assets for the Specialized Lending segment of $8.6 billion increased $413 million, or 5.1%, between 2009 and 2010 due primarily to organic growth. Comparing 2009 to 2008, total identifiable assets increased $1.6 billion, or 24.2%.  

Insurance Services  

Net income from the Insurance Services segment was $112 million in 2010, a decline of $16 million, or 12.5%, from 2009. Insurance Services continues to be impacted by both the weak economy and a decline in insurance premium pricing, which has resulted in lower commission revenues and has increased pressure on brokerage operating margins. Comparing 2009 to 2008, net income grew $21 million, or 19.6%.  

Noninterest income produced by the Insurance Services segment totaled $1.0 billion during 2010 and 2009. There were no acquisitions completed in 2010. Comparing 2009 to 2008, noninterest income increased $125 million, or 13.8%.  

Noninterest expenses incurred within the Insurance Services segment increased $17 million, or 2.2%, in 2010 to $790 million compared to 2009. This increase was due to higher operating costs, including increased insurance contract commissions paid to outside agents and brokers and increased legal costs compared to 2009. Comparing 2009 to 2008, noninterest expenses increased $75 million, or 10.7%.  

Financial Services  

Net income from the Financial Services segment declined by $1 million, or 0.6%, to $159 million in 2010. The decrease from 2009 is primarily attributable to the $27 million pre-tax gain realized in 2009 on the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business. Adjusted for this 2009 one-time gain, the Financial Services segment’s net income was up $16 million, or 10.9%. In 2010, the Financial Services segment experienced positive results from Corporate Banking loan and deposit growth and strong growth in assets under management in Sterling Capital and the  

91  

Table of Contents 

 Wealth Management Division. Additionally, Investment Services expanded their number of investment counselors in 2010, contributing to strong revenue growth for their business, especially in the new markets associated with the Colonial acquisition. Comparing 2009 to 2008, net income increased $74 million, or 86.0%, based on an expansion of Corporate Banking initiatives, as well as strong performance from capital markets activities and brokerage operations.  

Net interest income for the Financial Services segment totaled $127 million in 2010, a decrease of $3 million, or 2.3%, compared to 2009. Comparing 2009 to 2008, net interest income increased $52 million, or 66.7%. The decrease in net interest income during 2010 was attributable to lower fixed-income revenue for Scott & Stringfellow that was partially offset by strong organic loan growth in Corporate Banking. Corporate Banking was also the strongest driver in the overall increase in net interest income for 2009.  

Noninterest income in the Financial Services segment in 2010 totaled $657 million, down $17 million, or 2.5%, compared to $674 million earned during 2009. This decrease in 2010 is primarily attributed to the $27 million gain realized in 2009 on the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business. BB&T Capital Partners had strong revenue growth in 2010 related to maturing investments in its private equity and mezzanine funds. Additionally, Sterling Capital and the Wealth Management Division had strong noninterest income growth in 2010, with assets under management growing as a result of improved market conditions and business initiatives. Noninterest income increased by $45 million, or 7.2%, between 2008 and 2009. The revenue increase in 2009 was attributable to the gain on the sale of BB&T’s payroll processing business and strong performances from the Wealth Management Division and Capital Market’s Fixed Income sales and trading activities. Noninterest expenses of $533 million incurred by Financial Services in 2010 declined $10 million compared to 2009, after declining $9 million in the prior year.  

Treasury  

The Treasury segment is responsible for managing the liquidity position for the Corporation, investing excess funds, and managing interest rate risk. Net income from the Treasury segment of $163 million for 2010 was down $67 million, or 29.1%, from 2009. Net income in the Treasury segment is subject to fluctuations based on the interest sensitivity of the Corporation’s balance sheet, the purchases and sales of securities, and the issuance and retirement of funding vehicles. For 2009, net income of $230 million was down $177 million, or 43.5% from 2008.  

Net interest income in the Treasury segment can vary due to changing needs of the Corporation, including the size of the investment portfolio, the need for wholesale funding, and income received from derivatives used to hedge the balance sheet. Net interest expense for the Treasury segment was $467 million in 2010 compared to net interest expense of $59 million in 2009. Net interest expense for 2010 consisted of $156 million of net interest income and $623 million of net interest expense from the FTP charge. For 2009, net interest income for the Treasury segment consisted of $630 million of net interest income and $689 million of net interest expense from the FTP charge.  

During 2010, noninterest income earned by the Treasury segment totaled $643 million, an increase of 97.2%, compared to $326 million earned during 2009. Noninterest income during 2010 included $578 million in gains on the sale of securities, an increase of $339 million compared to $239 million of gains in 2009. These gains were partially offset by other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) write downs of $31 million in 2010 and $7 million in 2009. For 2008, noninterest income within the Treasury segment totaled $265 million, and included net gains on the sale of securities of $233 million and OTTI of $54 million.  

The income tax benefit allocated to the Treasury segment during 2010 was $11 million compared to a provision for income taxes of $28 million in 2009 and $157 million in 2008. The changes in the taxes allocated to the Treasury segment are a combination of changes in the level of pre-tax income and tax-exempt income.  

As of December 31, 2010, total identifiable assets in the Treasury segment were $27.8 billion, a decrease of $8.8 billion, or 24.0%, from the prior year. This followed a decrease of $835 million, or 2.2%, in 2009 compared to 2008. The decrease in assets in 2010 reflects the implementation of a de-risking strategy whereby the portfolio size was decreased through sales of securities and duration in the portfolio was reduced.  

92  

Table of Contents 

Fourth Quarter Results  

Consolidated net income available to common shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2010 of $208 million was up 12.4% compared to $185 million earned during the same period in 2009. On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for the fourth quarter of 2010 were $.30, up 11.1% compared to $.27 for the same period in 2009. BB&T’s results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2010 produced an annualized return on average assets of .54% and an annualized return on average common shareholders’ equity of 4.88% compared to prior year ratios of .47% and 4.52%, respectively.  

Total fully taxable-equivalent revenues were $2.3 billion for the fourth quarter of 2010, up slightly compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase in total revenues was driven by higher net interest income, as the net interest margin for the fourth quarter of 2010 improved 24 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The improvement in the net interest margin reflects higher yields on loans acquired in the Colonial acquisition and lower deposit costs. Interest income on covered and other acquired assets increased $128 million, the majority of which is offset in the FDIC loss-share income. Net interest income increased at a slower pace due to a decline in average earning assets of $6.9 billion as a result of the balance sheet deleverage strategy that was executed in the second quarter of 2010. Noninterest income was down slightly compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, as higher net securities gains of $100 million were offset by a decrease of $43 million in service charges on deposit accounts and $62 million of losses and writedowns on commercial loans held for sale.  

Management completed its strategy to de-risk the investment securities portfolio during the fourth quarter of 2010. In anticipation of rising rates, management sold approximately $6.1 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities and replaced them with shorter duration and floating rate securities. In addition, management sold approximately $400 million of non-agency mortgage-backed securities to reduce the potential for future credit losses.  

The provision for credit losses, excluding covered loans, for the fourth quarter of 2010 declined $182 million, or 25.1%, compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, as improving credit resulted in lower provision expense. The provision for covered loans increased $100 million, which was offset by a corresponding $80 million increase in FDIC loss share income. Net-charge-offs for the fourth quarter of 2010 were $50 million higher than the fourth quarter of 2009, partially due to $26 million in charge-offs recognized as a result of the continuing NPA disposition strategy. Overall, the level of nonperforming assets and loan delinquencies were improving and the outlook for future credit losses is better.  

A $15 million provision for income taxes was recorded for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to $13 million for the fourth quarter of 2009. This resulted in an effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2010 of 6.5% compared to 6.3% for the prior year’s fourth quarter.  

The accompanying table, “Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited,” presents condensed information relating to quarterly periods in the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.  

93  

Table of Contents 

Table 32  

Quarterly Financial Summary—Unaudited  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Fourth quarter and third quarter 2009 include credits of $7 million and $12 million, respectively, to the provision for income taxes related to non-taxable gains on the sale of leveraged leases.  

 (2)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

94  

Table of Contents 

SIX YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY AND SELECTED RATIOS (1)  

(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)   Amounts include the impact of the Colonial acquisition which was completed on August 14, 2009.  

 (2)   Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale.  

95  

Table of Contents 

CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  

Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  

Management of BB&T is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended (the Exchange Act). The Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. BB&T’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records, that in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposition of the Corporation’s assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with the authorizations of BB&T’s management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Corporation’s assets that could have a material impact on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.  

Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, the Corporation conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, commonly referred to as the “COSO” criteria. Based on this evaluation under the “COSO” criteria, management concluded that the internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010.  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, the management of the Corporation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Corporation’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.  

There was no change in the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2010 that has materially affected or is likely to materially affect, the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting.  

The effectiveness of the internal control structure over financial reporting, as of December 31, 2010, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report included on page 97, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010.  

96  

Table of Contents 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of BB&T Corporation:  

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company’s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing on page 96. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

Charlotte, North Carolina  

February 25, 2011  

97  

Table of Contents 

BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS