ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is designed to provide a reader of the Company’s financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of Company management. The Company’s MD&A is divided into four main sections:  

   •    Overview  

   •    Results of Operations  

   •    Liquidity and Capital Resources  

   •    Critical Accounting Policies  

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements.  

OVERVIEW  

Danaher strives to create shareholder value through:  

   •    delivering sales growth, excluding the impact of acquired businesses, in excess of the overall market growth for its products and services;  

   •    upper quartile financial performance compared to Danaher’s peer companies; and  

   •    upper quartile cash flow generation from operations compared to Danaher’s peer companies.  

To accomplish these goals, the Company uses a set of tools and processes, known as the DANAHER BUSINESS SYSTEM (“DBS”), which are designed to continuously improve business performance in critical areas of quality, delivery, cost and innovation. Within the DBS framework, the Company also pursues a number of ongoing strategic initiatives intended to improve operational performance, including global sourcing of materials and services and innovative product development. The Company also acquires businesses that it believes can help it achieve the objectives described above, and believes that many acquisition opportunities remain available within its target markets. The Company will acquire businesses when they strategically fit with existing operations or when they are of such a nature and size as to establish a new strategic line of business. The extent to which appropriate acquisitions are made and effectively integrated can affect the Company’s overall growth and operating results. The Company also continually assesses the strategic fit of its existing businesses and may divest businesses that are not deemed to strategically fit with ongoing operations or are not achieving the desired return on investment.  

Danaher is a multinational corporation with global operations. In 2007, approximately 51% of Danaher’s sales were derived outside the United States. As a global business, Danaher’s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry economic and political factors. However, Danaher’s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the diversity of its product sales and services, has helped limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on the consolidated operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured and geographies served, management does not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. The Company’s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. In addition, the Company’s order rates are highly indicative of the Company’s revenue in the short term and thus a key measure of anticipated performance. In those industry segments where the Company is a capital equipment provider, revenues depend on the capital expenditure budgets and spending patterns of the Company’s customers, who may delay or accelerate purchases in reaction to changes in their businesses and in the economy.  

Significant Acquisitions and Divestitures  

In November 2007, the Company significantly expanded its test and measurement business with the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Tektronix, Inc. (Tektronix) for total cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. Tektronix is a leading supplier of test, measurement, and monitoring products, solutions and services for engineers in the communications, computer, consumer electronics and education industries, as well as in military/aerospace, semiconductor and a broad range of other industries   

26  

Table of Contents 

 worldwide. Tektronix had annual revenues of approximately $1.1 billion in its most recently completed fiscal year, and is part of Danaher’s test and measurement business included in the Professional Instrumentation segment. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and the Company’s November 2007 common stock offering (described below), and to a lesser extent from available cash.  

Tektronix is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s test and measurement business, both through the growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The combination of Tektronix with Danaher’s existing test and measurement businesses is also expected to yield significant cost reductions. Company management and other personnel are devoting significant attention to the successful integration of the Tektronix business into Danaher.  

On November 7, 2007, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of 6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $82.25 per share. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters’ discount, were approximately $550 million, which were used to partially fund the acquisition of Tektronix. In addition, on December 11, 2007, the Company completed the underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”). The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters’ discount, were approximately $493 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix.  

In July 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ChemTreat, Inc. (ChemTreat) for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs. No cash was acquired in the transaction. ChemTreat is a leading provider of industrial water treatment products and services, and had annual revenues of $200 million in its most recent completed fiscal year. ChemTreat is part of the Company’s environmental business included within the Professional Instrumentation segment. ChemTreat is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s water quality business both through the growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The Company financed the acquisition of ChemTreat primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash.  

Also during July 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business for a cash sales price of $275 million net of transaction costs and recorded an after-tax gain of $150 million ($0.45 per diluted share). Prior to the sale, this business was part of the Industrial Technologies segment. The Company has reported the power quality business as a discontinued operation in this Form 10-K in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. Accordingly, the results of operations for all periods presented have been reclassified to reflect the power quality business as a discontinued operation.  

Business Performance  

While differences exist among the Company’s businesses, the Company generally continued to see market growth during the year ended December 31, 2007. The Company’s year-over-year growth rates reflect continued strength in global economic conditions, particularly Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent, North America. In addition, the growth reflects the continued shift of the Company’s operations into higher growth sectors of the economy. Growth rates slowed somewhat from the rate experienced in 2006 partially due to difficult comparisons with sales levels in 2006 within the Company’s product identification businesses and the impact of regulatory changes in the Company’s engine retarder business discussed below.  

The Company continues to operate in a highly competitive business environment in the markets and geographies served. The Company’s performance will be impacted by its ability to address a variety of challenges and opportunities in the markets and geographies it serves, including trends toward increased utilization of the global labor force, consolidation of competitors, the expansion of market opportunities in Asia, increasing significance of technology and intellectual property in the businesses in which the Company operates and increases in raw material costs. The Company will continue to assess market needs with the objective of positioning itself to provide superior products and services to its customers in a cost efficient manner.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its sales are generated in foreign currencies. Sales by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively.  

The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. On an overall basis, the U.S. dollar weakened against other major currencies in 2007 and closed the year at exchange rate levels weaker than the exchange rate levels as of the end of 2006. The impact of currency rate changes increased reported sales by approximately 3.5% during the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Any further weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would benefit the Company’s future results of operations. Any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would adversely impact the Company’s future sales and results of operations.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Consolidated sales from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased approximately 16.5% over the comparable period of 2006. Sales from existing businesses contributed 4.5% growth. Acquisitions contributed 8.5% to the sales growth during 2007. The impact of currency translation on sales provided 3.5% growth as the U.S. dollar weakened against other major currencies throughout 2007. References in this report to sales from existing businesses include sales from acquired businesses starting from and after the first anniversary of the acquisition, but exclude currency effect.  

The growth in sales from acquisitions in the year ended December 31, 2007 primarily related to acquisitions in the Company’s Medical Technologies and Professional Instrumentation businesses. The acquisitions of Sybron Dental Specialties, Inc. (Sybron) in May 2006 and Vision Systems Limited (Vision), at the end of 2006, both of which are part of the Medical Technologies segment, have contributed the majority of this year-over-year acquisition-related revenue growth. Also contributing to the year-over-year growth are the acquisitions of ChemTreat in July 2007 and Tektronix in November 2007, both of which are included in the Professional Instrumentation segment, and the acquisitions of other smaller businesses in the Medical Technologies, Professional Instrumentation and Industrial Technologies segments.  

Operating profit margins from continuing operations for the Company were 15.8% in the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to 15.9% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Following are the key factors impacting the year-over-year comparison of operating profit margins:  

   •    Operating profit margin improvements in the Company’s existing businesses contributed 85 basis points of margin improvement primarily as a result of broad-based operating profit margin improvements across the Company’s business segments. Operating profit margins benefited from on-going cost reduction initiatives including application of the Danaher Business System and low-cost region sourcing and production initiatives and the additional leverage created from sales growth compared with the prior year period. The ongoing application of the Danaher Business System in each of our segments, and the Company’s low-cost region sourcing and production initiatives, are both expected to positively impact operating profit margins at both existing and newly acquired businesses in future periods.  

   •    The dilutive impact of acquisitions reduced 2007 operating profit margins by 90 basis points, including the expensing of approximately $68.2 million of acquisition related charges for in-process research and development and the fair values of acquired inventory and deferred revenues during 2007 in connection with the acquisition of Textronix.  

28  

Table of Contents 

The effective tax rate for 2007 of 25.8% reflects net discrete tax benefits of approximately $21 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. New tax legislation that was signed into law in several taxing jurisdictions during 2007, most notably in Germany and Denmark, reduced income tax rates for 2008 and future periods which resulted in a reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liabilities and a like reduction in 2007 income tax expense as required under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The lower statutory rates are expected to be offset by other statutory changes in these jurisdictions, such that the Company's effective tax rate in future years will not be materially reduced as a result of the legislation. Partially offsetting the benefit from the above tax rate reduction was the effect of establishing income tax reserves during the year related to uncertain tax positions in various taxing jurisdiction, net of the reduction of tax reserves associated with Sweden. Refer to Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. The Company expects the tax rate for 2008 to be approximately 27%.  

The following table summarizes sales by business segment for each of the periods indicated:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

PROFESSIONAL INSTRUMENTATION  

Businesses in the Professional Instrumentation segment offer professional and technical customers various products and services that are used in connection with the performance of their work. The Professional Instrumentation segment encompasses two strategic businesses: environmental and test and measurement. These businesses produce and sell bench top and compact, professional electronic test tools and calibration equipment; water quality instrumentation and consumables and ultraviolet disinfection systems; industrial water treatment solutions; and retail/commercial petroleum products and services, including dispensers, payment systems, underground storage tank leak detection and vapor recovery systems.  

Professional Instrumentation Selected Financial Data  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Components of Sales Growth  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

29  

Table of Contents 

2007 COMPARED TO 2006  

As detailed in the table above, segment sales for Professional Instrumentation increased 22.0% for 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses increased in both of the segment’s strategic lines of business. Prices accounted for approximately 1.5% sales growth and the impact of that increase is reflected in sales from existing businesses.  

Operating profit margins were 20.1% in 2007 compared to 21.5% in 2006. Operating profit margin improvements of 135 basis points related to existing businesses were more than offset by the dilutive impact of lower operating profit margins of acquired businesses, which reduced segment operating profit margins by 260 basis points compared to 2006. Included in the dilutive impact on operating margins from acquired businesses is approximately $68 million (185 basis points) in charges associated with the acquisition of Tektronix, primarily related to acquired in-process research and development activities, acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue. In addition, year over year comparisons are impacted by a gain on the sale of real estate during 2006 and recovery of certain previously written-off receivables during 2006 which increased that period’s operating profit margins by 15 basis points.  

Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment  

Environmental. Sales from the Company’s environmental businesses, representing approximately 60% of segment sales for 2007, increased 16.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 6.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 7.0% growth and currency translation accounted for 3.5% growth.  

The Company’s water quality businesses experienced low-double digit revenue growth for 2007 compared to 2006, primarily as a result of strength in sales of laboratory and process instrumentation products in all major geographic regions. In addition, sales of the Company’s ultraviolet water treatment systems grew double-digit compared to 2006. Investment in sales forces and other growth initiatives, in addition to continued penetration of the Asian wastewater market, including a significant reclamation project in Australia, contributed to the growth. Sales growth from acquisitions primarily relates to the acquisition of ChemTreat in July 2007. The acquisition of ChemTreat expands the scope of the water quality business in the area of industrial water treatment solutions and is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities from existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses.  

The Gilbarco Veeder-Root retail petroleum equipment business experienced low-single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. The business’ point of sale payment systems and service business enjoyed robust growth in 2007, primarily in Europe. In addition, the business experienced strong demand during 2007 for its recently introduced leak detection systems in North America and China during 2007. These sales gains were offset by difficult prior year comparisons, a result of strong dispenser sales in 2006 due to extensive refurbishment activity in Europe and regulatory mandates in Mexico that did not repeat in 2007.  

Test and Measurement. Sales from the Company’s test and measurement businesses, representing approximately 40% of segment sales for 2007, grew 31.5% compared to 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 8.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 20.0% growth and currency translation accounted for approximately 3.5% growth.  

New product offerings in the thermography, power quality test and process calibration markets generated strong sales in the electrical and industrial channels in all major geographical areas during 2007. The network test business experienced mid-single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Large orders from telecommunications carriers in the United States during the first three quarters of 2007 and cable test equipment sales in Europe were the primary drivers of the network test growth.  

Acquisition growth was primarily related to the acquisition of Tektronix in addition to several smaller acquisitions throughout the year. The acquisition of Tektronix in November 2007 substantially increases the product line and geographic scope of the test and measurement business, particularly in Asia, and is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth of existing products and services and through the potential acquisition of complementary businesses. The combination of Tektronix with Danaher’s existing test and measurement business is also expected to yield significant cost reductions.  

30  

Table of Contents 

2006 COMPARED TO 2005  

Professional Instrumentation segment sales increased 12% for 2006 compared to 2005. Price increases contributed 1.5% to overall sales growth compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses increased in both of the Company's strategic lines of business.  

Operating profit margins for the segment were 21.5% in 2006 compared to 20.7% for 2005. Operating profit margin improvements in the segment’s existing businesses were offset by the lower operating margins of acquired businesses which reduced segment operating margins by approximately 40 basis points in 2006 compared to 2005. In addition, the implementation of SFAS No. 123R reduced operating profit for the segment by approximately $14.7 million and contributed to a 50 basis point reduction in operating profit margins in 2006 compared to 2005.  

Overview of Businesses within Professional Instrumentation Segment  

Environmental. Sales from the Company’s environmental businesses, representing approximately 63% of segment sales for 2006, increased 10.5% in 2006 compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 8% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 2% growth and currency translation accounted for 0.5% growth.  

The Company’s water quality businesses experienced mid-single digit sales growth for 2006. This growth was primarily the result of strength in the business’ laboratory and process instrumentation products in both the North American and European markets. Sales in Asia grew over 20% in 2006 reflecting continued penetration of these markets. The business’ ultra analytics business reported mid-single digit growth in 2006. Sales growth in North America and Europe, as well as the impact of new product introductions, drove the improvements. Lower sales in Asia reflecting in part a difficult comparable sales period in 2005 due to certain large projects not repeating in 2006, partially offset these improvements. Sales growth from acquired businesses primarily reflects the impact of three smaller acquisitions completed in 2005 and 2006.  

The Gilbarco Veeder-Root retail petroleum product and service business reported high-single digit sales growth in 2006 compared to low single-digit sales growth in 2005. This growth was driven by extensive refurbishment activity in Europe and regulatory incentives in Mexico that encouraged dispensers to be embedded with tamper proof capability. The businesses’ newly introduced dispensing equipment and its recently introduced point of sale equipment were favorably received which also contributed to this growth.  

Test and Measurement. Sales from the Company’s test and measurement businesses, representing approximately 37% of segment sales for 2006, grew 14.5% compared to 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 7.0% growth. Acquisitions accounted for 7.5% growth and currency translation had a negligible impact.  

Sales growth from existing businesses in 2006 continued the strong growth experienced throughout 2005. The business experienced high-single digit growth in traditional industrial channels in all major geographic regions with particular strength in the Asian and Latin American markets. Demand for the businesses’ thermography and new power quality test products contributed significantly to this overall growth. The Company’s network test business reported mid-single digit sales growth for 2006 compared to 2005. Sales growth slowed in North America and Europe in 2006 compared to 2005 since 2005 benefited from several new product launches. The network-test business experienced somewhat stronger sales growth in China and Latin America in 2006 compared to 2005.  

MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES  

The Medical Technologies segment consists of businesses which offer dentists, other doctors and hospital and research professionals various products and services that are used in connection with the performance of their work.  

31  

Table of Contents 

Medical Technologies Selected Financial Data  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Components of Sales Growth  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2007 COMPARED TO 2006  

As detailed in the table above, segment sales increased 35% for 2007 compared to 2006. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed 1.0% to overall sales growth in 2007 compared to 2006.  

Operating profit margin improvements in the segment’s existing businesses contributed 100 basis points to the overall operating margin improvement in 2007. Improvements in the operating profit margins of the dental consumable, acute care diagnostic and life sciences instrumentation businesses were partially offset by lower operating profit margins in the dental equipment businesses. Recently acquired businesses adversely impacted 2007 operating profit margins by 40 basis points as compared to 2006. In addition, on a comparative basis, 2007 operating margins benefited approximately 50 basis points from the adverse impact on 2006 operating margins that resulted from charges recorded associated with the fair value of acquired inventory related to the acquisition of Sybron.  

Overview of Businesses within Medical Technologies Segment  

The segment’s dental business experienced mid-single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. The business experienced increased sales volumes in its restorative and orthodontia products as well as in the instrument and treatment unit product offerings across all major geographies. In addition, increased sales of both two-dimensional and three-dimensional imaging products contributed to the revenue growth in the European market. This growth was partially offset by a decline in instrument and treatment unit sales to Asia reflecting a weak overall Japanese market and the need to re-register certain products with regulatory authorities in South Korea.  

Radiometer’s acute care diagnostics business experienced high-single digit revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Increasing sales of diagnostic instruments in Europe (particularly Russia) in 2007 contributed to this sales growth. The North American and Asia/Pacific markets also contributed to the growth, although at somewhat lower rates than those experienced in the European markets. The increase in instrument placements in 2007 is expected to result in increased consumables sales in future periods. New product introductions resulting from the business’ continued research and development efforts are also contributing to this growth.  

Leica Microsystems’ life science instrumentation business experienced mid-teens revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. Robust microscopy demand, particularly confocal microscopes, in North America and Asia were the primary growth drivers. The integration of Vision with Leica Microsystems has been completed and has generated   

32  

Table of Contents 

 incremental revenue growth, the majority of which has been included as a component of acquisition growth during 2007. Vision’s revenue grew approximately 30% in 2007 compared to 2006 when it was a stand-alone company.  

2006 COMPARED TO 2005  

Medical Technologies segment sales increased 88% for 2006 compared to 2005. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed approximately 1% to overall sales growth compared to 2005.  

Operating profit margins for the segment were 11.8% in 2006 compared to 11.7% for 2005. Operating profit margin improvements in the segment’s existing operations, largely as a result of margin improvements within the dental technology businesses, were offset by the lower operating margins of acquired businesses, primarily Leica and the expensing of in-process research and development in connection with the acquisition of Vision which reduced operating profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2006 by approximately 45 basis points compared to 2005. In addition, the implementation of SFAS No. 123R resulted in approximately $6 million of stock option compensation expense and reduced operating profit margins for the year ended December 31, 2006 by approximately 30 basis points compared to 2005. The Company also recorded a $4.5 million charge in the first quarter of 2006 for impairment of a minority interest in a medical technologies company, which reduced 2006 operating profit margins by approximately 20 basis points compared to 2005.  

Overview of Businesses within Medical Technologies Segment  

The Company’s dental technology businesses experienced high-single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Growth in the dental technology businesses was driven by continued strength in the instrument product lines as well as strong sales of imaging product lines in North America and Asia driven by new product introductions. The Company completed two acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 2006 which further enhanced its imaging product offerings. Sybron experienced low-double digit sales growth in 2006; however, all Sybron sales in 2006 are reported as a component of acquisition growth due to its May 2006 acquisition.  

Radiometer’s acute care diagnostics business experienced mid-single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Radiometer’s sales improved in all major geographic regions with particular strength in sales of consumables in Europe resulting from broad based diagnostic instrument placements in the first half of 2006.  

Leica’s life science instrumentation business experienced high-single digit growth in 2006 compared to 2005. Strength from the sale of stereo microscopes and specimen preparation equipment drove growth in Europe and Asia, and to a lesser extent North America. Leica’s sales have been included as a component of sales from existing businesses since the first anniversary of the acquisition and were reported as a component of acquisition growth prior to that anniversary date. Vision has been consolidated with the segment’s results as of the date the Company gained control of Vision in November 2006 and its sales are also included as a component of acquisition growth for 2006.  

INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGIES  

Businesses in the Industrial Technologies segment manufacture products and sub-systems that are typically incorporated by customers and systems integrators into production and packaging lines as well as incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) into various end-products. Many of the businesses also provide services to support their products, including helping customers integrate and install the products and helping ensure product uptime. The Industrial Technologies segment encompasses two strategic businesses, motion and product identification, and two focused niche businesses, aerospace and defense, and sensors & controls. These businesses produce and sell product identification equipment and consumables; motion, position, speed, temperature, and level instruments and sensing devices; liquid flow and quality measuring devices; safety devices; and electronic and mechanical counting and controlling devices. In the third quarter of 2007, the Company disposed of the power quality businesses that were part of this segment and all current and prior year period results of the segment have been adjusted to exclude the results of these discontinued operations.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Industrial Technologies Segment Selected Financial Data  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Components of Sales Growth  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2007 COMPARED TO 2006  

Price increases contributed 1.5% of sales growth compared to 2006 which impact is reflected in sales from existing businesses.  

Operating profit margin improvements in the segment’s existing businesses contributed 85 basis points to the overall operating margin improvement for 2007 as compared to 2006. This margin improvement was driven in part by continued margin expansion in the motion businesses reflecting pricing and productivity initiatives as well as the impact of lower levels of lower-margin United States Postal Service (USPS) sales in 2007 compared to 2006 within the product identification business. In addition, during 2007, the segment recorded a pre-tax gain of $12 million upon collection of indemnification proceeds related to a lawsuit, which improved operating profit margins by 40 basis points for 2007. These positive factors were partially offset by new acquisitions, restructuring activities, spending for product development and emerging market sales force initiatives, all of which are expected to have a positive impact in 2008.  

Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment  

Motion Sales in the Company’s motion businesses, representing approximately 34% of segment sales in 2007, increased 2.5% over 2006. Sales from existing businesses accounted for a 1.0% decrease in sales and currency translation accounted for 3.5% growth in sales during 2007. There were no acquisitions in the business in 2007 or 2006.  

During 2007, the motion business experienced sales growth primarily in the elevator markets as a result of global conversions to more energy efficient systems and new construction demand in Asia. Demand in OEM applications in Europe also contributed year-over-year sales growth. These growth drivers, however, were more than offset by year-over-year sales declines resulting from weakness in certain technology end markets as well as declines in the miniature motors business reflecting reduced customer demand.  

Product Identification. The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 28% of segment sales in 2007. Sales from the Company’s product identification businesses increased 3.5% in 2007 compared to 2006. Sales   

34  

Table of Contents 

 from existing businesses accounted for a 1.0% decline while currency translation contributed 3.5% to revenue growth and acquisitions contributed 1.0% to revenue growth in 2007.  

The 2007 decline in sales from existing operations resulted from the business completing several large systems installation projects with the USPS during 2006 which did not repeat in 2007. Sales for the business’ non-USPS marking products grew at a mid-single digit rates during 2007 compared to 2006. Strong equipment and after-market sales, particularly in China, Latin America and Europe, were the primary drivers of this growth facilitated by increased investments in the business’ sales force and new product launches in these regions.  

Focused Niche Businesses The segment’s niche businesses in the aggregate experienced 10% sales growth in 2007 compared to 2006. This growth was primarily driven by strong sales growth from existing businesses in the Company’s aerospace and defense businesses, partially offset by sales declines in the Company’s sensors and controls business, reflecting continued softness in the semi-conductor and electronic assembly markets.  

2006 COMPARED TO 2005  

Sales growth from existing businesses was due primarily to sales growth in the motion, aerospace and defense and sensor and controls businesses. Price increases, which are included in sales from existing businesses, contributed approximately 1.5% to overall sales growth compared to 2005. Several small acquisitions in 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 accounted for 1% growth.  

Operating profit margins for the segment were 15.7% in 2006 compared to 14.6% in 2005. The overall improvement in operating profit margins was driven primarily by additional leverage from sales growth, on-going cost reductions associated with Danaher Business System initiatives completed during 2005 and 2006, and margin improvements in businesses acquired in prior years, which typically have higher cost structures than the Company’s existing operations. Recently acquired businesses had no dilutive impact on overall operating profit margins for 2006. The improvements to operating profit margins were partially offset by the implementation of SFAS No. 123R which required the Company to record approximately $14.5 million of stock option compensation costs and reduced operating profit margins by 45 basis points in 2006 compared with 2005. Operating profit margin comparisons for 2006 compared to 2005 are also negatively impacted by 35 basis points related to gains on sale of a business and the collection of a previously reserved note receivable during 2005 and were positively impacted by 65 basis points related to a fourth quarter 2005 loss from the settlement of patent infringement litigation not repeating in 2006.  

Overview of Businesses within Industrial Technologies Segment  

Motion. Sales in the Company’s motion businesses, representing approximately 33% of segment sales in 2006, increased by 6% over 2005. Sales from existing businesses accounted for 5% growth; acquisitions accounted for 0.5% growth and currency translation contributed growth of 0.5%.  

Sales from existing businesses increased from 2005 levels due primarily to broad based growth across the standard and custom motor, drive and controls lines. This growth was somewhat offset by softness in certain technology end markets. The business also experienced continued growth in sales of its linear products during 2006.  

Product Identification. The product identification businesses accounted for approximately 27% of segment sales in 2006. Sales from the Company’s product identification businesses increased 3.5% in 2006 compared to 2005. Existing businesses provided 2.5% growth. Favorable currency impacts accounted for 1% growth. Acquisitions had a negligible impact on growth for 2006.  

The increase in sales is due primarily to the increase in sales of laser and thermal transfer overlay equipment as well as sales of consumables and services in North America and Europe. These increases in sales were offset by the completion of several large United States Postal Service (“USPS”) projects in the first half of 2006 at both AccuSort and Videojet.  

Focused Niche Businesses. The segment’s niche businesses in the aggregate experienced 11.0% sales growth in 2006 compared to 2005. This growth was primarily driven by strong sales growth from existing businesses in the Company’s sensors and controls and aerospace and defense businesses.  

35  

Table of Contents 

TOOLS & COMPONENTS  

The Tools & Components segment is one of the largest producers and distributors of general purpose and specialty mechanics hand tools. Other products manufactured by the businesses in this segment include toolboxes and storage devices; diesel engine retarders; wheel service equipment; drill chucks; and custom-designed fasteners and components.  

Tools & Components Selected Financial Data  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Components of Sales Growth  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2007 COMPARED TO 2006  

Sales from existing businesses for 2007 reflect the impact of certain regulatory requirements that became effective at the beginning of 2007 which accelerated demand for the Company’s engine retarder products in 2006 and have adversely impacted demand in 2007. Price increases partially offset the decline in sales and contributed approximately 2.5% of sales growth compared to 2006. The impact of that increase is reflected in sales from existing businesses.  

Operating profit margins for the segment were 13.1% in 2007 compared to 14.4% in 2006. Costs associated with workforce reductions and adjustments to production levels to match demand in the engine retarder business decreased operating profit margins by 85 basis in 2007 compared with 2006. Lower sales volumes in the mechanics’ hand tool business with Sears/K-Mart and increased lead costs in the wheel weight business also had a negative impact on the 2007 operating margins. In addition, operating profit margins were adversely impacted by 40 basis points as a result of expenses incurred in connection with a fire in one of the business’ manufacturing facilities in China and restructuring costs incurred primarily in the fourth quarter of 2007 to close one facility and reduce headcount.  

Overview of Businesses within the Tools & Components Segment  

Mechanics’ hand tools sales, representing approximately 70% of segment sales in 2007, grew 1.0% in 2007 compared to 2006. The segment’s Matco business grew slightly during 2007 as the business benefited from recent product introductions and price increases which offset declines in distributor average purchase levels during 2007. The retail hand tool business experienced strength in China and in its export business to Europe, as well as certain of its retail channels. This performance, in large part, was offset by a decline in sales to Sears/K-Mart, the retail hand tools business’ largest customer. Year-over-year softness in same-store sales of hand tools at Sears/K-Mart continues to impact adversely the business.  

36  

Table of Contents 

The segment’s niche businesses experienced mid-single digit sales declines during 2007 as compared to 2006. The impact of the regulatory issue noted above was partially offset by improved sales performance in the segment’s wheel service business during 2007 driven by price increases necessary to recover increased lead costs.  

2006 COMPARED TO 2005  

Sales from existing businesses contributed substantially all of the growth for the segment in 2006, including approximately 1.5% growth due to price increases that the Company implemented largely as a result of cost increases in steel and other commodities.  

Operating profit margins for the segment were 14.4% in 2006 compared to 15.4% in 2005. Implementation of SFAS No. 123R in the first quarter of 2006 reduced segment operating profit by approximately $6 million in 2006 as compared to 2005, negatively impacting year-over-year operating margins by 45 basis points. The Company also incurred costs associated with exiting a small product line during the second half of 2006 which reduced 2006 operating profit margins by approximately 30 basis points. Operating profit margins also declined during 2006 due to lower margin products accounting for a larger proportion of sales within the segment as well as due to higher overall freight costs. Finally, year-over-year operating margin comparisons were negatively impacted by approximately 40 basis points as a result of a $5.3 million ($3.9 million after taxes) gain on the sale of real estate in 2005. The adverse impacts on operating margins described above were offset somewhat by the impact of leverage from higher sales levels, including the pricing actions implemented in 2006, as well as the benefit of restructuring actions taken in 2005.  

Overview of Businesses within the Tools & Components Segment  

Mechanics’ hand tools sales, representing approximately 70% of segment sales, grew 5% in 2006 compared to 2005. The sales growth was driven primarily by the group’s Matco business which achieved high-single digit growth during 2006 driven by increases in both the number of distributors and their average purchase levels. The retail mechanics’ hand tools business also grew in the second half of 2006 compared to the second half of 2005 as sell-through at Sears, a major customer of the segment, improved from prior year levels. The business continued to experience growth with its other retail customers as well as expanding markets for the business’ products in China. The segment’s niche businesses experienced mid-single digit sales growth for 2006 compared to 2005 as strength in the truck box and engine retarder businesses was partially offset by weakness in the chuck business.  

GROSS PROFIT  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in gross profit margins from continuing operations for 2007 as compared to 2006 resulted from leverage on increased sales volume, the on-going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our Danaher Business System processes and low-cost region initiatives and generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired and increases in selling prices. Gross profit margins also improved due to lower-margin sales to United States Postal Service in the product identification business comprising a smaller proportion of sales during 2007 compared to 2006. The gross margins for 2007 also benefited from the inclusion of a full year of results from higher-margin Sybron business as compared to 2006 which only included seven months of Sybron results as a result of Sybron acquisition in May 2006. The improvements were partially offset by higher commodity costs incurred in 2007 for which full recovery in the form of price increases dilutes reported margins.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Gross profit margins from continuing operations for 2006 benefited from leverage on increased sales volume, the on-going cost improvements in existing business units driven by our Danaher Business System processes and low-cost region initiatives, generally higher gross profit margins in businesses recently acquired. Increases in selling prices to offset some of the increases in cost and surcharges related to steel and other commodity purchases also contributed to gross profit improvement. These improvements were partially offset by a change in mix to certain lower margin businesses including the Gilbarco Veeder-Root business and sales to the United States Postal Service in the product identification business. In addition, the Company recorded a loss on a product development venture in the first quarter of 2006 and incurred higher initial product costs associated with the Sybron acquisition in the second quarter of 2006, which further reduced gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2006.  

OPERATING EXPENSES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales increased 60 basis points during 2007 as compared to 2006 levels. The year-over-year increases resulted from recently acquired businesses (principally Sybron Dental and Vision) which generally have higher operating expense structures, compared to the Company’s other businesses, as well as increased investment in sales forces in emerging markets. These increases were partially offset by operating leverage from higher sales during 2007 as compared to 2006. In addition, the recovery of certain previously written-off indemnity receivable balances during 2007 favorably impacted selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were higher in 2006 as compared to 2005 as a result of the higher operating expense structures of businesses acquired during 2006 as well as the implementation of SFAS No. 123R at the beginning of 2006 which required the Company to record approximately $55.0 million in stock option compensation costs.  

Research and development expenses, consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs, as a percentage of sales, were approximately 90 basis points higher in 2007 as compared to 2006. In 2007, the Company expensed approximately $60.4 million of in-process research and development related to the Tektronix acquisition as compared to approximately $6.5 million of in-process research and development expensed in 2006 related to the Vision acquisition. Newly acquired companies and their higher, relative research and development cost structures also contributed to the year-over-year increase. Research and development expenses as a percentage of sales during 2006 were consistent with the 2005 level. The Company continues to invest in new product development within all of its businesses, with particular emphasis on the medical technologies, test and measurement, environmental and product identification businesses.  

INTEREST COSTS AND FINANCING TRANSACTIONS  

For a description of the Company’s outstanding indebtedness, please refer to “–Liquidity and Capital Resources – Financing Activities and Indebtedness” below.  

Interest expense of $109.7 million in 2007 was approximately $30.3 million higher than 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher average debt levels during 2007, due to borrowings incurred to fund the 2007 acquisitions of Tektronix and ChemTreat and the 2006 acquisitions of Sybron and Vision. Interest expense for 2006 was higher than 2005 by approximately $34.9 million. The increase in interest expense in 2006 compared to 2005 was also due to higher debt levels during 2006 as compared to 2005, as a result of borrowings incurred to fund the acquisitions of Sybron Dental and Vision.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Interest income of $6.1 million, $8.0 million and $14.7 million was recognized in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Average invested cash balances were lower in 2007 compared to 2006 due to employing cash balances to complete several acquisitions in late 2006 and throughout 2007 as well as to repurchase shares of Company common stock in 2007. In addition, lower interest rates prevailing during 2007 contributed to the decrease in interest income. Average invested cash balances decreased during 2006 compared to 2005 due to employing cash balances to complete several acquisitions in 2005 and 2006, to finance repurchases of the Company’s outstanding common stock in the second half of 2005 and to repay the previously outstanding Eurobonds in July 2005. In addition, 2005 interest income reflects the collection of $4.6 million of interest on a note receivable which had not previously been recorded due to collection risk.  

INCOME TAXES  

General  

The Company’s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below) and changes in tax laws. The tax effect of significant unusual items or changes in tax regulations is reflected in the period in which they occur. The Company’s effective tax rate for 2007 differs from the United States federal statutory rate of 35% primarily as a result of lower effective tax rates on certain earnings from operations outside of the United States. No provisions for United States income taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States. The amount of United States income taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given the various tax planning alternatives the Company could employ should it decide to repatriate these earnings. As of December 31, 2007, the total amount of earnings planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States was approximately $5.4 billion.  

The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis and accrues amounts for potential tax contingencies. Based on these reviews and the result of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the closure of tax years subject to tax audit, reserves are adjusted as necessary. However, future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to the Company’s estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are determined or resolved. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which the Company’s earnings and/or deductions are realized may differ from current estimates.  

Year-Over-Year Changes in Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate  

The Company adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, on January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of Interpretation No. 48, the Company recognized a decrease in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits of $63 million, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. 

The Company’s effective tax rate related to continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was 25.8%, 22.4% and 27.3%, respectively.  

The effective tax rate for 2007 of 25.8% reflects net discrete tax benefits of approximately $21 million, or $0.07 per diluted share. New tax legislation that was signed into law in several taxing jurisdictions during 2007, most notably in Germany and Denmark, reduced income tax rates for 2008 and future periods which resulted in a reduction in the Company’s deferred tax liabilities and a like reduction in 2007 income tax expense as required under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. The lower statutory rates are expected to be offset by other statutory changes in these jurisdictions, such that the Company's effective tax rate in future years will not be materially reduced as a result of the legislation. Partially offsetting the benefit from the above tax rate reduction was the effect of establishing income tax reserves during the year related to uncertain tax positions in various taxing jurisdiction, net of the reduction of tax reserves associated with Sweden. Refer to Note 13 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

39  

Table of Contents 

The Company's effective tax rate from continuing operations of 22.4% for 2006 was 4.9% lower than the effective tax rate for 2005. The effective tax rate for 2006 benefited by $69 million, or $0.21 per diluted share, as a result of the reduction of valuation allowances related to foreign tax credit carryforwards that are now expected to be realized, the favorable resolution of examinations of certain previously filed returns which resulted in the reduction of previously provided tax reserves and the impact of a change in German tax law which entitles the Company to cash payments in lieu of previously held unrecognized tax credits. These positive impacts were partially mitigated by a higher effective tax rate applicable to the second quarter 2006 gain on the sale of shares of First Technology, plc (see Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) which increased the overall provision by $1.5 million compared to what would have been incurred using the Company’s overall effective tax rate.  

The effective tax rate for 2008 is expected to be approximately 27%.  

INFLATION  

Inflation did not significantly impact the Company’s overall results of operations in either 2007 or 2006.  

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT  

The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk, which could impact its results of operations and financial condition. The Company addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities. In addition, the Company’s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its operating earnings as a whole.  

Interest Rate Risk  

The fair value of fixed-rate long-term debt is sensitive to changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to evaluate this potential impact. Based on a hypothetical, immediate 100 basis-point increase in interest rates at December 31, 2007, the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt, excluding the LYONs, would decrease by approximately $74 million. The LYONs have not been included in this calculation as the value of the convertible debt is primarily derived from the LYONs conversion feature. This methodology has certain limitations, and these hypothetical gains or losses would not be reflected in the Company’s results of operations or financial condition under current accounting principles. In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.1% notes due 2008 having an aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the effective interest rate on $100 million of these notes is the six month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as amended, the Company accounts for these swap agreements as fair value hedges. These instruments qualify as “effective” or “perfect” hedges. Other than the above noted swap arrangements, there were no material derivative financial instrument transactions during any of the periods presented. Additionally, the Company does not have significant commodity contracts or other derivatives.  

Exchange Rate Risk 

Although the Company has a U.S. dollar functional currency for reporting purposes, it has manufacturing sites throughout the world and a substantial portion of its sales are generated in foreign currencies. Sales by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the United States dollar. In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies. Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively. 

The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Therefore, both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Eurobond Notes described below, as well as the European component of the   

40  

Table of Contents 

 commercial paper program, which as of December 31, 2007 had aggregate outstanding borrowings in an amount equivalent to $969 million, provide a natural hedge to a portion of the Company’s European net asset position.  

Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, interest rate swap agreements and trade accounts receivable. The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counter parties to its financial instruments. The Company anticipates, however, that counter parties will be able to fully satisfy their obligations under these instruments. The Company places cash and temporary investments and its interest rate swap agreements with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world, and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although the Company does not obtain collateral or other security to support these financial instruments, it does periodically evaluate the credit standing of the counter party financial institutions. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from trade accounts receivable are limited due to the diversity of the Company’s customers. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers’ financial conditions and obtains collateral or other security when appropriate.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

   •    Operating cash flow from continuing operations, a key source of the Company’s liquidity, increased $168.5 million, or approximately 11.0% as compared to 2006. Earnings growth contributed $104.8 million to the increase in operating cash flow from continuing operations in 2007 compared to 2006, and non-cash stock compensation expense and increases in depreciation and amortization also positively impacted cash flow. Operating working capital, which the Company defines as trade accounts receivable plus inventory less accounts payable, was a net source of cash flow in 2007 despite higher sales levels as overall operating   

41  

Table of Contents 

 working capital turns improved from the levels experienced during 2006. Operating working capital contributed $69 million to operating cash flow during 2007 as compared to $31 million contributed to operating cash flow during 2006.  

   •    As of December 31, 2007, the Company held $239.1 million of cash and cash equivalents.  

   •    Acquisitions constituted the most significant use of cash in all periods presented. The Company acquired 12 companies and product lines during 2007 and completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of Vision not owned as of December 31, 2006, for total consideration of $3.6 billion in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. The acquisition of Tektronix in November 2007 for total consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired, and the acquisition of ChemTreat in July 2007 for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs, constituted the largest acquisitions during the period.  

   •    During 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business generating approximately $275 million of net cash proceeds.  

   •    The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper borrowings and the net proceeds from the Company’s November 2007 common stock offering, and to a lesser extent from available cash. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company refinanced a portion of the commercial paper borrowings with the net proceeds from the Company’s December 2007 offering of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018. The Company financed the ChemTreat acquisition primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash.  

Operating Activities  

The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remains in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for items such as income taxes, pension funding decisions and other items impact reported cash flows.  

Operating cash flow from continuing operations, a key source of the Company’s liquidity, was approximately $1.7 billion for 2007, an increase of $169 million, or approximately 11% as compared to 2006. Earnings growth contributed $105 million to the increase in operating cash flow in 2007 compared to 2006. Operating cash flows during 2007 benefited from increases in non-cash depreciation and amortization charges of approximately $53 million compared to 2006. The increase in depreciation and amortization is primarily related to recent acquisitions. Also benefiting operating cash flows during 2007 is $68 million of non-cash acquisition related charges incurred primarily related to acquired in-process research and development activities, acquired inventory and acquired deferred revenue in connection with the acquisition of Tektronix. Because this expense adversely impacts net earnings but does not require the use of cash, it positively impacts the comparison of operating cash flow as a percentage of net earnings. Operating working capital contributed approximately $38 million to the increase in operating cash flow during 2007 as compared to 2006. The increase in operating working capital is primarily a result of improvements in the Company’s inventory turnover and days payables outstanding in 2007. These improvements were somewhat offset by an increase in income tax payments related to continuing operations of approximately $74 million during 2007 as compared to 2006.  

Investing Activities  

Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures and cash flows from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities related to continuing operations was $3.4 billion during 2007 compared to $2.8 billion of net cash used in the comparable period of 2006. Gross capital spending of $162 million for 2007 increased $26 million from $136 million during 2006, primarily due to capital spending relating to new acquisitions and increased spending related to investments in the Company’s low-cost region sourcing initiatives, new products and other growth opportunities. Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development and improving   

42  

Table of Contents 

 information technology systems. In 2008, the Company expects capital spending to exceed $200 million, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions.  

Net cash used in investing activities related to continuing operations was $2.8 billion in 2006 compared to approximately $965 million in 2005. Gross capital spending increased $17 million in 2006 from 2005 levels to $138 million.  

As discussed below, the Company completed several business acquisitions and divestitures during 2007, 2006 and 2005. All of the acquisitions during this period have resulted in the recognition of goodwill in the Company’s financial statements. This goodwill typically arises because the purchase prices for these businesses reflect the competitive nature of the process by which the businesses are acquired and the complementary strategic fit and resulting synergies these businesses are expected to bring to existing operations. For a discussion of other factors resulting in the recognition of goodwill see Notes 2 and 6 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements.  

2007 Acquisitions and Divestiture  

In November 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Tektronix, Inc. for total cash consideration of approximately $2.8 billion, including transaction costs and net of cash and debt acquired. The Company funded the purchase price of the Tektronix acquisition with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper borrowings and the Company’s November 2007 common stock offering (described below), and to a lesser extent from available cash. Subsequent to the acquisition, the Company refinanced a portion of the commercial paper borrowings with the proceeds from the Company’s December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes (described below).  

In July 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of ChemTreat for a cash purchase price of $425 million including transaction costs. No cash was acquired in the transaction. The Company financed the acquisition primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash.  

In addition, the Company acquired ten other companies or product lines during 2007 for consideration of approximately $273 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. Each company acquired is a manufacturer and assembler of instrumentation products, in market segments such as test and measurement, dental technologies, product identification, sensors and controls and environmental instruments. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual sales of these ten acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $123 million.  

In addition to the ten acquisitions noted above, as discussed below, during the first quarter of 2007, the Company completed the acquisition of the remaining shares of Vision not owned by the Company as of December 31, 2006 for cash consideration of approximately $96 million.  

In July 2007, the Company completed the sale of its power quality business generating approximately $275 million of net cash proceeds. This business, which was part of the Industrial Technologies segment and designs and manufactures power quality and reliability products and services, had aggregate annual revenues of approximately $130 million in 2006. The Company used the proceeds from this sale for general corporate purposes, including debt reduction and acquisitions.  

2006 Acquisitions  

In May 2006, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Sybron for total cash consideration of approximately $2 billion, including transaction costs and net of $94 million of cash acquired, and assumed approximately $182 million of debt. Sybron is a leading manufacturer of a broad range of products for the dental professional and had revenues of approximately $650 million in its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. Substantially all of the assumed debt was repaid or refinanced prior to December 31, 2006. Danaher financed the acquisition of shares and the refinancing of the assumed debt primarily with proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper and to a lesser extent from available cash.  

43  

Table of Contents 

In addition, in the last quarter of 2006 and first quarter of 2007, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Vision for an aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $525 million, including transaction costs and net of $113 million of cash acquired and assumed $1.5 million of debt. Of this purchase price, $96 million was paid during 2007 to acquire the remaining shares of Vision that the Company did not own as of December 31, 2006 and for transaction costs. The Company financed the transaction through a combination of available cash and the issuance of commercial paper. Vision, based in Australia, manufactures and markets automated instruments, antibodies and biochemical reagents used for biopsy-based detection of cancer and infectious diseases, and had revenues of $86 million in its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition. The pairing of Vision with the Company’s existing life science instrumentation business, Leica, has significantly broadened the Company’s product offerings in the anatomical pathology market and has expanded the sales and growth opportunities for both the Leica and Vision businesses. The Company believes that the pairing of Leica and Vision has also created a broader base for the potential acquisition of complementary businesses in the life sciences industry.  

Total consideration for the other nine businesses acquired during 2006 was approximately $213 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental instrumentation, medical equipment or industrial products, in the market segments of test and measurement, acute care diagnostics, water quality, product identification and sensors and controls. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual revenues of these nine acquired businesses, at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $140 million.  

In the first half of 2006, the Company purchased and subsequently sold shares of First Technology plc, a U.K. - based public company, in connection with the Company’s unsuccessful bid to acquire First Technology. First Technology also paid the Company a break-up fee of approximately $3 million. During the second quarter of 2006 the Company recorded a pre-tax gain of approximately $14 million ($8.9 million after-tax, or approximately $0.03 per diluted share) in connection with these matters, net of related transaction costs, which is included in “other expense (income), net” in the accompanying Consolidated Condensed Statement of Earnings.  

Disposals of fixed assets and land yielded approximately $10 million of cash proceeds during 2006 due to the sale of three parcels of real estate and miscellaneous equipment.  

2005 Acquisitions  

In the first quarter of 2005 the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of Linx Printing Technologies PLC, a publicly-held U.K based coding and marking business, for $171 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of $2 million. Linx complements the Company’s product identification businesses and had annual revenue of approximately $93 million in 2004.  

In August 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of German-based Leica Microsystems AG, for an aggregate purchase price of €210 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired of €12 million and the assumption and repayment at closing of €125 million of outstanding Leica debt ($429 million in aggregate as of the date of the acquisition). The Company funded this acquisition and the repayment of debt assumed using available cash and through borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit totaling $222 million, which have subsequently been repaid. Leica complements the Company’s medical technologies business and had annual revenues of approximately $540 million in 2004 (excluding the approximately $120 million of revenue attributable to the semiconductor business that has been divested, as described below). In September 2005, the Company also completed the sale of Leica’s semiconductor equipment business which was held for sale at the time of the acquisition.  

In addition to Linx and Leica, the Company acquired eleven smaller companies and product lines during 2005 for total consideration of $285 million in cash, including transaction costs and net of cash acquired. In general, each company is a manufacturer and assembler of environmental or instrumentation products, in markets such as medical technologies, test and measurement, sensors and controls, environmental, product identification, aerospace and defense and motion. These companies were all acquired to complement existing units of the Professional Instrumentation, Medical Technologies or Industrial Technologies segments. The aggregate annual revenues of these   

44  

Table of Contents 

 eleven acquired businesses at the time of their respective acquisitions, in each case based on the acquired company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $260 million.  

In June 2005, the Company divested one insignificant business that was reported as a continuing operation within the Industrial Technologies segment for aggregate proceeds of $12.1 million in cash net of related transaction expenses. Sales related to this business included in the Company’s results for 2005 were $7.5 million. Net cash proceeds received on the sale are included in “Proceeds from Divestitures” in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

In June 2005, the Company collected $14.6 million in full payment of a retained interest that was in the form of a $10 million note receivable and an equity interest arising from the sale of a prior business. The Company had recorded this note net of applicable allowances and had not previously recognized interest income on the note due to uncertainties associated with collection of the principal balance of the note and the related interest. Cash proceeds from the collection of the principal balance of $10 million are included in “Proceeds from Divestitures” in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

Disposals of fixed assets yielded approximately $19 million of cash proceeds during 2005, primarily related to a sale of a building.  

Financing Activities and Indebtedness  

Overview  

Financing cash flows consist primarily of proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper, common stock and notes, repayments of indebtedness, repurchases of common stock and payments of dividends to shareholders. Financing activities provided cash of $1.7 billion during 2007 compared to $1.2 billion of cash provided during 2006. The increase in cash generated from financing activities was primarily due to: commercial paper borrowings used to finance the acquisition of ChemTreat and a portion of the acquisition of Tektronix; and the proceeds from the November 2007 common stock offering and the December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes that were used to finance the acquisition of Tektronix, in each case net of debt repayments, amounts paid for repurchases of common stock and dividends paid during 2007.  

Total debt was $3,726 million at December 31, 2007 compared to $2,434 million at December 31, 2006. The Company’s debt financing as of December 31, 2007 consisted primarily of:  

   •    $240 (€164 million) million of outstanding Euro denominated commercial paper;  

   •    $1,311 million of outstanding U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper;  

   •    $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.1% notes due 2008 (subject to the interest rate swaps described below);  

   •    $730 million (€500 million) aggregate principal amount of 4.5% guaranteed Eurobond Notes due 2013 (“Eurobond Notes”);  

   •    $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018;  

   •    $606 million of zero coupon Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2021 (“LYONs”); and  

   •    $89 million of other borrowings.  

The Company does not have any rating downgrade triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of outstanding debt, except as follows. Under each of the Eurobond Notes and the 2018 Notes, if the Company experiences a change of control and a rating downgrade of a specified nature within a specified period following the change of control, the Company will be required to offer to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of 2018 Notes, or the principal amount plus accrued interest in the case of Eurobond Notes. A downgrade in the Company’s credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under the Company’s commercial paper program and credit facilities, and could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude the Company’s ability to issue commercial paper. The Company’s outstanding indentures and comparable instruments contain customary covenants including for example limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to the Company’s operations and as of December 31, 2007, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Commercial Paper Program and Credit Facilities  

The Company satisfies its short-term liquidity needs primarily through issuances of U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper. Under the Company’s U.S. and Euro commercial paper programs, the Company or a subsidiary of the Company, as applicable, may issue and sell unsecured, short-term promissory notes in aggregate principal amount not to exceed $4.0 billion. Since the credit facilities described below provide credit support for the program, the $2.5 billion of availability under the credit facilities has the practical effect of reducing from $4.0 billion to $2.5 billion the maximum amount of commercial paper that the Company can issue under the program. Commercial paper notes are sold at a discount and have a maturity of not more than 90 days from the date of issuance. Borrowings under the program are available for general corporate purposes, including financing acquisitions. The Company has classified $1.5 billion of the borrowings under the commercial paper program as long-term borrowings in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and the ability, as supported by the availability of the Credit Facility (described below), to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date. The remaining commercial paper borrowings are classified as a current obligation.  

During 2007, the Company utilized its commercial paper program, in part, to fund the acquisitions of ChemTreat and Tektronix. Operating cash flow and the proceeds from the November 2007 common stock offering, in the case of Tektronix, were also utilized to fund the acquisition. The proceeds from the December 2007 offering of the 2018 Notes were subsequently utilized to reduce outstanding borrowings under the program. As of December 31, 2007, $1,551 million was outstanding under the Company’s global commercial paper program, including $1,311 million outstanding under the U.S. dollar commercial paper program with a weighted average interest rate of 4.6% and an average maturity of 12 days and $240 million outstanding under the Euro-denominated commercial paper program (€164 million) with a weighted average interest rate of 5.1% and an average maturity of 32 days.  

Credit support for part of the commercial paper program is provided by an unsecured $1.5 billion multicurrency revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) which expires on April 25, 2012. The Credit Facility can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Interest is based on, at the Company’s option, (1) a LIBOR-based formula is dependent in part on the Company’s credit rating, or (2) a formula based on Bank of America’s prime rate or on the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points, or (3) the rate of interest bid by a particular lender for a particular loan under the facility. The Credit Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of 0.65 to 1.00 or less.  

In addition, in connection with the financing of the Tektronix acquisition in November 2007, the Company entered into a $1.9 billion unsecured revolving bridge loan facility (the “Bridge Facility”) which expires on November 11, 2008. The Bridge Facility also provides credit support for the commercial paper program and can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Interest is based on, at the Company’s option, either (1) a LIBOR-based formula that is dependent in part on the Company’s credit rating, or (2) a formula based on the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal or on the Federal funds rate plus 50 basis points. The Bridge Facility requires the Company to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of 0.65 to 1.00 or less, and is required to be prepaid with the net cash proceeds of certain equity or debt issuances by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.  

Together with the Company’s pre-existing $1.5 billion credit facility, the Bridge Facility increased the Company’s aggregate credit facilities to $3.4 billion. In December 2007, the amount of the Bridge Facility was reduced by $0.9 billion leaving the amount of the Bridge Facility at $1.0 billion and the aggregate amount of the Company’s credit facilities at $2.5 billion, in each case as of December 31, 2007. There were no borrowings under either the Credit Facility or the Bridge Facility during 2007.  

Other Long-Term Indebtedness  

In December 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.625% senior notes due 2018. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters’ discount, were approximately $493.4 million, which were used to repay a portion of the commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of Tektronix. The Company may redeem the notes at any time prior to their maturity at a redemption price equal to the greater of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, or the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest plus 25 basis points.  

46  

Table of Contents 

On July 21, 2006, a financing subsidiary of the Company issued the Eurobond Notes in a private placement outside the U.S. Payment obligations under these Eurobond Notes are guaranteed by the Company. The net proceeds of the offering, after the deduction of underwriting commissions but prior to the deduction of other issuance costs, were €496 million ($627 million) and were used to pay down a portion of the Company’s outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. The Company may redeem the notes upon the occurrence of specified, adverse changes in tax laws or interpretations under such laws, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed.  

In 2001, the Company issued $830 million (value at maturity) in LYONs. The net proceeds to the Company were $505 million, of which approximately $100 million was used to pay down debt and the balance was used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The LYONs carry a yield to maturity of 2.375% (with contingent interest payable as described below). Holders of the LYONs may convert each of their LYONs into 14.5352 shares of Danaher common stock (in the aggregate for all LYONs, approximately 12.0 million shares of Danaher common stock) at any time on or before the maturity date of January 22, 2021. As of December 31, 2007, the accreted value of the outstanding LYONs was lower than the traded market value of the underlying common stock issuable upon conversion. The Company may redeem all or a portion of the LYONs for cash at any time at scheduled redemption prices. Holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes for cash and/or Company common stock, at the Company’s option, on January 22, 2011. The holders had a similar option to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the notes as of January 22, 2004, which resulted in notes with an accreted value of $1.1 million being redeemed by the Company for cash.  

Under the terms of the LYONs, the Company will pay contingent interest to the holders of LYONs during any six month period from January 23 to July 22 and from July 23 to January 22 if the average market price of a LYON for a specified measurement period equals 120% or more of the sum of the issue price and accrued original issue discount for such LYON. The amount of contingent interest to be paid with respect to any quarterly period is equal to the higher of either 0.0315% percent of the bonds’ average market price during the specified measurement period or the amount of the common stock dividend paid during such quarterly period multiplied by the number of shares issuable upon conversion of a LYON. The Company paid approximately $1.2 million of contingent interest on the LYONs for the year ended December 31, 2007. Except for the contingent interest described above, the Company will not pay interest on the LYONs prior to maturity.  

The $250 million of 6.1% notes due 2008 mature October 15, 2008. In January 2002, the Company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for the term of the notes having an aggregate notional principal amount of $100 million whereby the effective net interest rate on $100 million of the Notes is the six-month LIBOR rate plus approximately 0.425%. Rates are reset twice per year. At December 31, 2007, the net interest rate on $100 million of the notes was 4.43% after giving effect to the interest rate swap agreement. In accordance with SFAS No. 133 (“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, as amended), the Company accounts for these swap agreements as fair value hedges. These instruments qualify as “effective” or “perfect” hedges.  

Shelf Registration Statement and Common Stock Offering  

The Company has a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance.  

In November 2007, the Company completed an underwritten public offering of 6.9 million shares of Danaher common stock at a price to the public of $82.25 per share off the shelf registration statement. The net proceeds, after expenses and the underwriters’ discount, were approximately $550 million, which were used to partially fund the acquisition of Tektronix. In December 2007, the Company also issued the 5.625% Senior Notes due 2018 off the shelf registration statement.  

Stock Repurchase Program  

On April 21, 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Company’s common stock from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. There is no   

47  

Table of Contents 

 expiration date for the Company’s repurchase program. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased will be determined by the Company’s management based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Any repurchased shares will be available for use in connection with the Company’s equity compensation plans and for other corporate purposes.  

During 2007, the Company repurchased 1.64 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at a cost of $117 million. These repurchases were funded from available cash and from proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper. During 2005, the Company repurchased 5 million shares of Company common stock in open market transactions at an aggregate cost of $258 million. The 2005 repurchases were funded from available cash and from borrowings under uncommitted lines of credit. At December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately 3.4 million shares remaining for stock repurchases under the existing Board authorization. The Company expects to fund any further repurchases using the Company’s available cash balances or proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper.  

Dividends  

The Company increased its regular, quarterly dividend to $0.03 per share during the second quarter of 2007, and declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.03 per share payable on January 25, 2008 to holders of record on December 28, 2007. Aggregate cash payments for dividends during 2007 were $34.3 million.  

Cash and Cash Requirements  

As of December 31, 2007, the Company held $239.1 million of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less.  

The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs and capital expenditures and acquisitions, to pay interest and service debt, fund its pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders and repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements and may borrow under existing commercial paper programs or credit facilities or access the capital markets as needed for liquidity. The Company believes that it has sufficient liquidity to satisfy both short-term and long-term requirements.  

The Company’s cash balances are generated and held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside the United States. The Company utilizes a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that its worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Wherever possible, cash management is centralized and intra-company financing is used to provide working capital to the Company’s operations. Most of the cash balances held outside the United States could be repatriated to the United States, but, under current law, would potentially be subject to United States federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Repatriation of some foreign balances is restricted or prohibited by local laws. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intra-company transfer of funds, the Company’s intent is that cash balances would remain in the foreign country and it would meet United States liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both.  

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS  

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of the Company's contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007 under (1) long-term debt obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on the Company's balance sheet under GAAP. The amounts presented in the table below do not reflect $556 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, the timing of which is uncertain. Refer Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on unrecognized tax benefits.  

48  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) As described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements  

 (b) Amounts do not include interest payments. Interest on long-term debt and capital lease obligations is reflected in a separate line in the table.  

 (c) As described in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements  

 (d) Consist of agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company and that specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction.  

 (e) Primarily consist of obligations under product service and warranty policies and allowances, performance and operating cost guarantees, estimated environmental remediation costs, self-insurance and litigation claims, post-retirement benefits, certain pension obligations, deferred tax liabilities and deferred compensation obligations. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations are based upon management’s estimates over the terms of these arrangements and are largely based upon historical experience.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  

The following table sets forth, by period due or year of expected expiration, as applicable, a summary of off-balance sheet commercial commitments of the Company.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Standby letters of credit and performance bonds are generally issued to secure the Company’s obligations under short-term contracts to purchase raw materials and components for manufacture and for performance under specific manufacturing agreements. Guarantees are generally issued in connection with certain transactions with vendors, suppliers, and financing counterparties and governmental entities.  

In connection with three past acquisitions, the Company has entered into agreements with the respective sellers to pay certain amounts in the future as additional purchase price. The Company enters into these types of arrangements to   

49  

Table of Contents 

 help bridge differences of opinion that the Company and the sellers may have over the appropriate value of the acquired business. The Company could pay nothing in the aggregate over the next three years pursuant to these agreements, or a maximum of up to $43.8 million over the next three years depending on the performance of the respective businesses during the specified performance period.  

Other Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements  

The Company has from time to time divested certain of its businesses and assets. In connection with these divestitures, the Company often provides representations, warranties and/or indemnities to cover various risks and unknown liabilities, such as claims for damages arising out of the use of products or relating to intellectual property matters, commercial disputes, environmental matters or tax matters. The Company cannot estimate the potential liability from such representations, warranties and indemnities because they relate to unknown conditions. However, the Company does not believe that the liabilities relating to these representations, warranties and indemnities will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

Due to the Company’s downsizing of certain operations pursuant to acquisitions, restructuring plans or otherwise, certain properties leased by the Company have been sublet to third parties. In the event any of these third parties vacates any of these premises, the Company would be legally obligated under master lease arrangements. The Company believes that the financial risk of default by such sub-lessors is individually and in the aggregate not material to the Company’s financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation requires it to indemnify to the full extent authorized or permitted by law any person made, or threatened to be made a party to any action or proceeding by reason of his or her service as a director or officer of the Company, or by reason of serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other entity, subject to limited exceptions. While the Company maintains insurance for this type of liability, a significant deductible applies to this coverage and any such liability could exceed the amount of the insurance coverage.  

Except as described above, as of December 31, 2007 the Company has not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements and has no unconsolidated special purpose entities.  

Legal Proceedings  

Please refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding certain outstanding litigation matters.  

In addition to the litigation matters noted under “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Matters – Environmental, Health & Safety”, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of the Company’s products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. While the Company maintains workers compensation, property, cargo, automobile, aviation, crime, fiduciary, product, general liability, and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance (and has acquired rights under similar policies in connection with certain acquisitions) that it believes cover a portion of these claims, this insurance may be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. In addition, while the Company believes it is entitled to indemnification from third parties for some of these claims, these rights may also be insufficient or unavailable to cover such losses. Based upon the Company’s experience, current information and applicable law, it does not believe that these proceedings and claims will have a material adverse effect on its cash flows, financial position, or results of operations.  

The Company maintains third party insurance policies up to certain limits to cover liability costs in excess of predetermined retained amounts. The Company carries significant deductibles and self-insured retentions under most of its lines of insurance, and management believes that the Company maintains adequate accruals to cover the retained liability. Management determines the Company’s accrual for self-insurance liability based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported.  

50  

Table of Contents 

For a discussion of additional risks related to existing and potential legal proceedings, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.”  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Management's discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases these estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.  

The Company believes the following critical accounting policies are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements because they inherently involve significant judgments and uncertainties. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Accounts receivable. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of the Company’s customers to make required payments. The Company estimates its anticipated losses from doubtful accounts based on historical collection history as well as by specifically reserving for known doubtful accounts. Estimating losses from doubtful accounts is inherently uncertain because the amount of such losses depends substantially on the financial condition of the Company’s customers, and the Company typically has limited visibility as to the specific financial state of its customers. If the financial condition of the Company’s customers were to deteriorate beyond estimates, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, the Company would be required to write off additional accounts receivable balances, which would adversely impact the Company’s net earnings and financial condition.  

Inventories. The Company records inventory at the lower of cost or market value. The Company estimates the market value of its inventory based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. Estimating the market value of inventory is inherently uncertain because levels of demand, technological advances and pricing competition in many of the Company’s markets can fluctuate significantly from period to period due to circumstances beyond the Company’s control. As a result, such fluctuations can be difficult to predict. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, the Company could be required to reduce the value of its inventory, which would adversely impact the Company’s net earnings and financial condition.  

Acquired intangibles. The Company’s business acquisitions typically result in goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the Company will incur. The Company follows Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, the accounting standard for goodwill, which requires that the Company, on an annual basis, calculate the fair value of the reporting units that contain the goodwill and compare that to the carrying value of the reporting unit to determine if impairment exists. Impairment testing must take place more often if circumstances or events indicate a change in the impairment status. In calculating the fair value of the reporting units, management relies on a number of factors including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and market data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. If actual fair value is less than the Company’s estimates, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings.  

The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of 2007, did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value for each of the Company’s reporting units as of September 30, 2007, the annual testing date, ranged from approximately $11 million to approximately $2.3 billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill impairment test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This   

51  

Table of Contents 

 hypothetical 10% decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from a short fall of approximately $10 million to an excess of approximately $2.1 billion for each of the Company’s reporting units. The reporting unit that resulted in a short fall of fair value as compared to carrying value based on a 10% hypothetical change in fair value had $188 million of recorded goodwill at the date of the impairment analysis.  

Long-lived assets. The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the assets to the future net cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds their fair value. Judgments made by the Company relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and its ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows in excess of the carrying amounts of such assets and are affected by factors such as the ongoing maintenance and improvements of the assets, changes in the expected use of the assets, changes in economic conditions, changes in operating performance and anticipated future cash flows. Since judgment is involved in determining the fair value of long-lived assets, there is risk that the carrying value of the Company’s long-lived assets may require adjustment in future periods. If actual fair value is less than the Company’s estimates, long-lived assets may be overstated on the balance sheet and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings.  

Purchase accounting. In connection with its acquisitions, the Company formulates a plan related to the future integration of the acquired entity. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 95-3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination, the Company accrues estimates for certain of the integration costs anticipated at the date of acquisition, including personnel reductions and facility closures or restructurings. Adjustments to these estimates are made up to 12 months from the acquisition date as plans are finalized. The Company establishes these accruals based on information obtained during the due diligence process, the Company’s experience in acquiring other companies, and information obtained after the closing about the acquired company’s business, assets and liabilities. The accruals established by the Company are inherently uncertain because they are based on limited information on the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the acquired business as well as the uncertainty of the cost to execute the integration plans for the business. If the accruals established by the Company are insufficient to account for all of the activities required to integrate the acquired entity, the Company would be required to incur an expense, which would adversely affect the net earnings. To the extent these accruals are not utilized for the intended purpose, the excess is recorded as a reduction of the purchase price, typically by reducing recorded goodwill balances.  

Risk Insurance. The Company carries significant deductibles and self-insured retentions with respect to various business risks. The business risk areas involving the most significant accounting estimates are workers' compensation and general liability (which includes product liability). For domestic workers’ compensation and general liability risk, the Company generally purchases outside insurance coverage only for severe losses ("stop loss" insurance) and must establish and maintain reserves with respect to amounts within the self-insured retention. These reserves consist of specific reserves for individual claims and additional amounts expected for development of these claims as well as for incurred but not yet reported claims. The specific reserves for individual known claims are quantified by third party administrator specialists for workers' compensation and by outside risk insurance experts for product liability. In addition, outside risk experts recommend reserves for incurred but not yet reported claims by evaluating the Company's specific loss history, actual claims reported, and industry trends among statistical and other factors. The Company believes the liability recorded for such risk insurance reserves as of December 31, 2007 is adequate, but due to judgments inherent in the reserve process it is possible the ultimate costs will differ from this estimate. If the risk insurance reserves established are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s net earnings.  

Environmental. The Company has made a provision for environmental remediation and environmental-related personal injury claims with respect to sites owned or formerly owned by the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company generally makes an assessment of the costs involved for its remediation efforts based on environmental studies as well as its prior experience with similar sites. If the Company determines that potential remediation liability for properties currently or previously owned is probable and reasonably estimable, it accrues the total estimated costs, including investigation and remediation costs, associated with the site. The Company also estimates its exposure for environmental-related personal injury claims and accrues for this estimated liability as such claims   

52  

Table of Contents 

 become known. While the Company actively pursues insurance recoveries as well as recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, it does not recognize any insurance recoveries for environmental liability claims until realized. The ultimate cost of site cleanup is difficult to predict given the uncertainties of the Company’s involvement in certain sites, uncertainties regarding the extent of the required cleanup, the availability of alternative cleanup methods, variations in the interpretation of applicable laws and regulations, the possibility of insurance recoveries with respect to certain sites and the fact that imposition of joint and several liability with right of contribution is possible under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 and other environmental laws and regulations. As such, there can be no assurance that the Company’s estimates of environmental liabilities will not change. Refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. If the environmental reserves established by the Company are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s net earnings.  

Contingent Liabilities. The Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation incidental to its business. These lawsuits primarily involve claims for damages arising out of the use of our products, claims relating to intellectual property matters and claims involving employment matters and commercial disputes. The Company may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. Some of these lawsuits include claims for punitive and consequential as well as compensatory damages. The Company recognizes a liability for any contingency that is probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. The Company periodically assesses the likelihood of adverse judgments or outcomes for these matters, as well as potential amounts or ranges of probable losses, and if appropriate recognizes a liability for these contingencies with the assistance of legal counsel and, if applicable, other experts. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number and cost of pending and future claims, and the impact of evidentiary requirements. Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to new developments or changes in the Company’s settlement strategy. For a discussion of these contingencies, including management's judgment applied in the recognition and measurement of specific liabilities, refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s net earnings.  

Share-Based Compensation: Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), which requires the Company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards granted, including stock options RSUs and restricted stock, based on the fair market value of the award as of the grant date. SFAS No. 123R supersedes Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation and Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (APB 25). The Company has adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective application method of adoption which requires the Company to record compensation cost related to unvested stock awards as of December 31, 2005 by recognizing the unamortized grant date fair value of these awards over the remaining service periods of those awards with no change in historical reported earnings. Awards granted after December 31, 2005 are valued at fair value in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R, the Company recognizes equity-based compensation expense net of an estimated forfeiture rate and recognizes compensation cost for only those shares expected to vest on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award. Prior to 2006, the Company accounted for stock-based compensation in accordance with APB 25 using the intrinsic value method, which did not require that compensation cost be recognized for the Company’s stock options provided the option exercise price was established at 100% of the common stock fair market value on the date of grant.  

Determining the appropriate fair value model and calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards require the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected life of the share-based payment awards and stock price volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based payment awards represent management’s best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our equity-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. In addition, we are required to estimate the expected forfeiture rate and recognize expense only for those shares expected to vest. If our actual forfeiture rate is materially different from our estimate,   

53  

Table of Contents 

 the equity-based compensation expense could be significantly different from what we have recorded in the current period.  

Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Certain of the Company’s employees and retired employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans (pension plans) and certain eligible retirees are provided health care and life insurance benefits under postretirement benefit plans (postretirement plans). The Company accounts for its pension and postretirement plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions; SFAS No. 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions; and SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R). SFAS No. 87 and SFAS No. 106 require that the amounts the Company records, including the expense or income, associated with the pension and postretirement plans is computed using actuarial valuations.  

Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations. These include assumptions the Company makes relating to financial market and other economic conditions. Changes in key economic indicators can result in changes in the assumptions used by the Company. The assumptions used in the actuarial valuation include discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. While the Company believes that the assumptions used in calculating its pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in the assumptions may affect the Company’s financial position or results of operations. For the United States plan, the Company used a 6.0% discount rate in computing the amount of the minimum pension liability to be recorded at December 31, 2007, which represents an increase of 0.25% in the discount rate from December 31, 2006. For non-U.S. plans, rates appropriate for each plan are determined based on investment grade instruments with maturities approximately equal to the average expected benefit payout under the plan. A 25 basis point reduction in the discount rate used for the plans would have increased the US and non-US net obligation by $62 million ($40 million on an after tax basis) from the amount recorded in the financial statements at December 31, 2007.  

For 2007, the expected long-term rate of return assumption applicable to assets held in the United States plan was estimated at 8.0% which is the same as the rate used in 2006. This expected rate of return reflects the asset allocation of the plan and the expected long-term returns on equity and debt investments included in plan assets. The U.S. plan invests between 60% and 70% of its assets in equity portfolios which are invested in funds that are expected to mirror broad market returns for equity securities. The balance of the asset portfolio is invested in corporate bonds and bond index funds. Pension expense for the U.S. plan for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $13 million (or $8 million on an after-tax basis), compared with $17 million (or $11 million on an after-tax basis) for this plan in 2006. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets was reduced by 0.5%, pension expense for 2007 would have increased $3.0 million (or $2.0 million on an after-tax basis). The Company made no contributions to the U.S. plan in 2007 and is not statutorily required to make contributions to the plan in 2008. The Company’s non-U.S. plan assets are comprised of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 0.75% to 7.5% for 2007 and ranged from 2.5% to 6.5% for 2006.  

The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 158 effective in the year ended December 31, 2006. For a summary of the material provisions of SFAS No. 158, see “New Accounting Standards.” The adoption of SFAS No. 158 in 2006 decreased the Company’s minimum pension liability by $13.0 million ($9.1 million net of tax benefits) due to the recognition of previously unrecognized, over-funded positions in certain of the Company’s non-US pension plans. The Company also recorded other comprehensive income of $10 million ($6.5 million net of tax benefits) due to the recognition of actuarially determined prior service credits associated with the Company’s U.S. based retiree benefit program. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $120 million ($81 million, net of tax benefits) of aggregate unrecognized prior service credits and unrecognized actuarial losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the Company’s pension plans. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, approximately $5.7 million ($3.9 million, net of tax) of aggregate unrecognized prior service credits and unrecognized actuarial losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income associated with the Company’s postretirement plans.  

54  

Table of Contents 

The U.S. Pension Protection Act of 2006 was enacted August 17, 2006. While the Act will have some effect on specific plan provisions in the Company’s retirement program, its primary effect will be to change the minimum funding requirements for plan years beginning in 2009. Based on initial projections, the Act is expected to slightly increase the amount of our required contributions in 2009.  

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), “Business Combinations” (SFAS No. 141R) and SFAS No. 160, “Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements” (“SFAS No. 160”). SFAS 141R establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. SFAS No. 141R also establishes disclosure requirements to enable the evaluation of the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 160 clarifies the classification of noncontrolling interests in the financial statements and the accounting for and reporting of transactions between the reporting entity and holders of such noncontrolling interests. SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Management is currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, of the adoption of SFAS No. 141R and SFAS No. 160 on the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, “Fair Value Measurements” (SFAS No. 157). SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. It also responds to investors’ requests for expanded information about the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, the information used to measure fair value and the effect of fair value measurements on earnings. SFAS No. 157 applies whenever other standards require (or permit) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value, and does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances. SFAS No. 157 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Management is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, “The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities — Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115” (SFAS No. 159). SFAS No. 159 expands the use of fair value accounting but does not affect existing standards that require assets or liabilities to be carried at fair value. Under SFAS No. 159, a company may elect to use fair value to measure accounts and loans receivable, available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities, equity method investments, accounts payable, guarantees and issued debt. Other eligible items include firm commitments for financial instruments that otherwise would not be recognized at inception and non-cash warranty obligations where a warrantor is permitted to pay a third party to provide the warranty goods or services. If the use of fair value is elected, any upfront costs and fees related to the item must be recognized in earnings and cannot be deferred, such as debt issuance costs. The fair value election is irrevocable and generally made on an instrument-by-instrument basis, even if a company has similar instruments that it elects not to measure based on fair value. At the adoption date, unrealized gains and losses on existing items for which fair value has been elected are reported as a cumulative adjustment to beginning retained earnings. Subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 159, changes in fair value are recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 159 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. Management is currently evaluating the effect that the adoption of SFAS No. 159 will have on the Company’s consolidated financial position and results of operations.  

In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R).” This statement requires a company to (a) recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan’s over funded status or a liability for a plan’s under funded status (b) measure a plan’s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer’s fiscal year, and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur (reported in comprehensive income). The requirement to recognize the funded status of a benefit plan and the disclosure requirements were effective and adopted by the Company as of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. The requirement to measure the plan assets and benefit obligations as of the date of the employer’s fiscal year–end statement of financial position is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. The adoption of this standard reduced the amount of pension and other post-retirement liabilities recorded by   

55  

Table of Contents 

 approximately $23 million as of December 31, 2006 due to the recognition of previously unrecognized, over-funded positions in certain of the Company’s non-US pension plans and due to the recognition of actuarially determined prior service credits associated with the Company’s U.S. based retiree benefit program. The Company expects to change its pension plan measurement date to December 31 effective in 2008. See “Pension and Other Post Retirement & Employee Benefit Plans” above and Notes 9 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 (FIN 48) “Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes – an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109”, to clarify certain aspects of accounting for uncertain tax positions, including issues related to the recognition and measurement of those tax positions. The Company adopted FIN 48 as of January 1, 2007, as required. As a result of the implementation, the Company recognized a decrease of $63 million in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as an increase to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings.  

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123 R), which requires the company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for all equity awards. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.  

In November 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 151, "Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4." SFAS No. 151 amends Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 43, Chapter 4, to clarify that abnormal amounts of idle facility expense, freight, handling costs and wasted materials (spoilage) should be recognized as current-period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overhead to inventory be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. SFAS No. 151 was effective in the Company’s first quarter of 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 151 did not have a significant impact on the Company's results of operations, financial position or cash flows.  

  ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK