PART I 

     Item 1. Business. 

 OVERVIEW  

 Aon plc's strategy is to be the preeminent professional service firm in the world, focused on the topics of risk and people. Aon plc (which may be referred to as "Aon," "the Company," "we," "us," or "our") is the leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human resource consulting and outsourcing, delivering distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions. Our predecessor, Aon Corporation, was incorporated in 1979 under the laws of Delaware. Aon is the parent corporation of both long-established and acquired companies. On April 2, 2012, we completed the change of our jurisdiction of incorporation from Delaware to the U.K. and moved our corporate headquarters to London. Additionally, we completed a reorganization of our corporate structure of the group of companies controlled by our predecessor, Aon Corporation, as holding company of the Aon group, pursuant to which Aon Corporation merged with one of its indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries and Aon plc became the publicly-held parent company of the Aon group. We sometimes refer to this transaction herein as the Redomestication. Moving our global headquarters to the U.K. is expected to enhance our focus on growth, product and broking innovations at Aon Broking, talent development and financial flexibility. The transaction is expected to support our strategy and is expected to deliver significant value to our shareholders.  

 We have approximately 65,000 employees and conduct our operations through various subsidiaries in more than 120 countries and sovereignties.  

 We serve clients through the following reportable segments:   

•Risk Solutions acts as an advisor and insurance and reinsurance broker, helping clients manage their risks via consultation, as well as negotiation and placement of insurance risk with insurance carriers through our global distribution network.  

•HR Solutions partners with organizations to solve their most complex benefits, talent and related financial challenges, and improve business performance by designing, implementing, communicating and administering a wide range of human capital, retirement, investment consulting, health care, compensation and talent management strategies.   

 Our clients are globally diversified and include all segments of the economy (individuals through personal lines, mid-market companies and large global companies) and every industry in the economy in over 120 countries globally. This diversification of our customer base provides stability in different economic scenarios that may affect specific industries, customer segments or geographies.  

 Over the last five years we have focused our portfolio on higher margin, capital light professional services businesses that have high recurring revenue streams and strong free cash flow generation. Aon drives its capital decision making process around return on invested capital ("ROIC"). This focus on ROIC, measured on a cash on cash basis, led to a number of significant portfolio changes:    

•In April 2008, we completed the sale of our Combined Insurance Company of America ("CICA") and Sterling Insurance Company ("Sterling") subsidiaries, which represented the majority of the operations of our former Insurance Underwriting segment.  

•In August 2009, we completed the sale of our remaining property and casualty insurance underwriting operations that were in run-off. The results of all of these operations are reported in discontinued operations for all periods presented.   

2 

•In November 2008, we expanded our Risk Solutions product offerings through the merger with Benfield Group Limited ("Benfield"), a leading independent reinsurance intermediary. Benfield products have been integrated with our existing reinsurance products.  

•In October 2010, we completed the acquisition of Hewitt Associates, Inc. ("Hewitt"), one of the world's leading human resource consulting and outsourcing companies. Hewitt operates globally together with Aon's existing consulting and outsourcing operations under the newly created Aon Hewitt brand in our HR Solutions segment.   

 Following the acquisitions of Benfield in 2008 and Hewitt in 2010, the Company has successfully transformed the portfolio towards higher-margin, capital light professional services businesses with 66% of total revenues in Risk Solutions and 34% of total revenues in HR Solutions, resulting in higher-margin recurring revenue streams and strong free cash flow generation characteristics.  

 BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

 Risk Solutions  

 The Risk Solutions segment generated approximately 66% of our consolidated total revenues in 2012, and has approximately 31,000 employees worldwide. We provide risk and insurance brokerage and related services in this segment.  

 Principal Products and Services  

 We operate in this segment through two similar transactional product lines: retail brokerage and reinsurance brokerage. In addition, a key component of this business is our risk consulting services.  

 Retail brokerage encompasses our retail brokerage services, affinity products, managing general underwriting, placement, and captive management services. The Americas' operations provide products and services to clients in North, Central and South America, the Caribbean, and Bermuda. Our International operations in the United Kingdom; Europe, Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific offer similar products and services to clients throughout the rest of the world.  

 Our employees draw upon our global network of resources, industry-leading data and analytics, and specialized expertise to deliver value to clients ranging from small and mid-sized businesses to multi-national corporations. We work with clients to identify their business needs and help them assess and understand their total cost of risk. Once we have gained an understanding of our clients' risk management needs, we are able to leverage our global network and implement a customized risk approach with local Aon resources. The outcome is a comprehensive risk solution provided locally and personally. The Aon Client Promise® enables our colleagues around the globe to describe, benchmark and price the value we deliver to clients in a unified approach, based on the ten most important criteria that our clients believe are critical to managing their total cost of risk.  

 Knowledge and foresight, unparalleled benchmarking and carrier knowledge are the qualities at the heart of our professional services excellence. Delivering superior value to clients and differentiation from competitors will be driven through key Aon Broking initiatives, such as the development of the Global Risk Insight Platform® ("GRIP") in 2010, which uniquely positions us to provide our clients and insurers with additional market insight as well as new product offerings and facilities. GRIP helps insurers strengthen their value proposition to Aon clients by providing them with cutting-edge analytics in preparation for renewal season and business planning consultation regarding strategy, definition of risk appetite, and areas of focus. GRIP provides our clients with insights into market conditions, premium rates and best practices in program design, across all industries and economic centers.  

 As a retail broker, we serve as an advisor to clients and facilitate a wide spectrum of risk management solutions for property liability, general liability, professional and directors' and officers'  

3 

liability, workers' compensation, various healthcare products, as well as other exposures. Our business is comprised of several specialty areas structured around specific product and industry needs.  

 We deliver specialized advice and services in such industries as technology, financial services, agribusiness, aviation, construction, health care and energy, among others. Through our global affinity business, we provide products for professional liability, life, disability income and personal lines for individuals, associations and businesses around the world.  

 In addition, we are a major provider of risk consulting services, including captive management, that provide our clients with alternative vehicles for managing risks that would be cost-prohibitive or unavailable in traditional insurance markets.  

 Our health and benefits consulting practice advises clients about structuring, funding, and administering employee benefit programs, which attract, retain, and motivate employees. Benefits consulting and brokerage includes health and welfare, executive benefits, workforce strategies and productivity, absence management, data-driven health, compliance, employee commitment, and elective benefits services.  

 Reinsurance brokerage offers sophisticated advisory services in program design and claim recoveries that enhance the risk/return characteristics of insurance policy portfolios, improve capital utilization, and evaluate and mitigate catastrophic loss exposures worldwide. An insurance or reinsurance company may seek reinsurance or other risk-transfer solutions on all or a portion of the risks it insures. To accomplish this, our reinsurance brokerage services use dynamic financial analysis and capital market alternatives, such as transferring catastrophe risk through securitization. Reinsurance brokerage also offers capital management transaction and advisory services.  

 We act as a broker or intermediary for all classes of reinsurance. We place two main types of property and casualty reinsurance: treaty reinsurance, which involves the transfer of a portfolio of risks, and facultative reinsurance, which entails the transfer of part or all of the coverage provided by a single insurance policy. We also place specialty lines such as professional liability, workers' compensation, accident, life and health.  

 We also provide actuarial, enterprise risk management, catastrophe management and rating agency advisory services. We have developed tools and models that help our clients understand the financial implications of natural and man-made catastrophes around the world. Aon Benfield Securities provides global capital management transaction and advisory services for insurance and reinsurance clients. In this capacity, Aon Benfield Securities is recognized as a leader in:    

•the structuring, underwriting and trading of insurance-linked securities;   

•the arrangement of financing for insurance and reinsurance companies, including Lloyd's syndicates; and   

•providing advice on strategic and capital alternatives, including mergers and acquisitions.   

 In addition, our Inpoint business is a leading provider of consulting services to the insurance and reinsurance industry, helping carriers improve their performance to achieve growth and profitability.  

 Compensation  

 Our Risk Solutions segment generates revenues through commissions, fees from clients, and compensation from insurance and reinsurance companies for services we provide to them. Commission rates and fees vary depending upon several factors, which may include the amount of premium, the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular services provided to a client, insurer or reinsurer, and the capacity in which we act. Payment terms are consistent with current industry practice.  

4 

 We typically hold funds on behalf of clients as a result of premiums received from clients and claims due to clients that are in transit to and from insurers. These funds held on behalf of clients are generally invested in interest-bearing premium trust accounts and can fluctuate significantly depending on when we collect cash from our clients and when premiums are remitted to the insurance carriers. We earn interest on these accounts; however, the principal is segregated and not available for general operating purposes.  

 Competition  

 The Risk Solutions business is highly competitive and very fragmented, and we compete with two other global insurance brokers, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Willis Group Holdings Ltd., as well as numerous specialists, regional and local firms in almost every area of our business. We also compete with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents; and with other businesses that do not fall into the categories above, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms, and consultants that provide risk-related services and products.  

 Seasonality  

 The Risk Solutions segment typically experiences higher revenues in the first and fourth calendar quarters of each year, primarily due to the timing of policy renewals.  

 HR Solutions  

 The HR Solutions segment generated approximately 34% of our consolidated total revenues in 2012, and has approximately 29,000 employees worldwide with operations in the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Europe, South Africa, Latin America, and the Asia Pacific region.  

 Principal Products and Services  

 We provide products and services in this segment primarily under the Aon Hewitt brand, which was formed following the acquisition of Hewitt.  

 Aon Hewitt works to maximize the value of clients' human resources spending, increase employee productivity, and improve employee performance. Our approach addresses a trend towards more diverse workforces (demographics, nationalities, cultures and work/lifestyle preferences) that require more choices and flexibility among employers — so that they can provide benefit options suited to individual needs.  

 We work with our clients to identify options in human resource outsourcing and process improvements. The primary areas where companies choose to use outsourcing services include benefits administration, core human resource processes, workforce and talent management.  

 Aon Hewitt offers a broad range of human capital services in the following practice areas:  

 Retirement specializes in providing global actuarial services, defined contribution consulting, pension de-risking, tax and ERISA consulting, and pension administration.  

 Compensation focuses on compensation advisory/counsel including: compensation planning design, executive reward strategies, salary survey and benchmarking, market share studies and sales force effectiveness assessments, with special expertise in the financial services and technology industries.  

 Strategic Human Capital delivers advice to complex global organizations on talent, change and organizational effectiveness issues, including talent strategy and acquisition, executive on-boarding,  

5 

performance management, leadership assessment and development, communication strategy, workforce training and change management.  

 Investment consulting advises public and private companies, other institutions and trustees on developing and maintaining investment programs across a broad range of plan types, including defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans, endowments and foundations.  

 Benefits Administration applies our HR expertise primarily through defined benefit (pension), defined contribution (401(k)), and health and welfare administrative services. Our model replaces the resource-intensive processes once required to administer benefit plans with more efficient, effective, and less costly solutions.  

 Exchanges is building and operating health care exchanges that provide employers with a cost effective alternative to traditional employee and retiree healthcare, while helping individuals select the insurance that best meets their needs.  

 Human Resource Business Process Outsourcing ("HR BPO") provides market-leading solutions to manage employee data; administer benefits, payroll and other human resources processes; and record and manage talent, workforce and other core HR process transactions as well as other complementary services such as absence management, flexible spending, dependent audit and participant advocacy.  

 Compensation  

 HR Solutions revenues are principally derived from fees paid by clients for advice and services. In addition, insurance companies pay us commissions for placing individual and group insurance contracts, primarily life, health and accident coverages, and pay us fees for consulting and other services that we provide to them. Payment terms are consistent with current industry practice.  

 Competition  

 Our HR Solutions business faces strong competition from other worldwide and national consulting companies, as well as regional and local firms. Competitors include independent consulting firms and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology, and financial services firms, large financial institutions, and pure play outsourcers. Some of our competitors provide administrative or consulting services as an adjunct to other primary services. We believe that we are one of the leading providers of human capital services in the world.  

 Seasonality  

 Due to buying patterns in the markets we serve, revenues tend to be slightly higher in the fourth quarter.  

 Licensing and Regulation  

 Our business activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of countries in which we operate, as well as U.S. federal and state laws. See the discussion contained in the "Risk Factors" section in Part I, Item 1A of this report for information regarding how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.  

 Risk Solutions  

 Regulatory authorities in the states or countries in which the operating subsidiaries of our Risk Solutions segment conduct business may require individual or company licensing to act as producers,  

6 

brokers, agents, third party administrators, managing general agents, reinsurance intermediaries, or adjusters.  

 Under the laws of most states in the U.S. and most foreign countries, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to granting, renewing and revoking producers', brokers' and agents' licenses to transact business in the state or country. The operating terms may vary according to the licensing requirements of the particular state or country, which may require, among other things that a firm operates in the state or country through a local corporation. In a few states and countries, licenses may be issued only to individual residents or locally owned business entities. In such cases, our subsidiaries either have such licenses or have arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the state or country.  

 Our subsidiaries must comply with laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are enforced by federal and state agencies in the U.S., by the Financial Services Authority ("FSA") in the U.K., and by various regulatory agencies and other supervisory authorities in other countries through the granting and revoking of licenses to do business, licensing of agents, monitoring of trade practices, policy form approval, limits on commission rates, and mandatory remuneration disclosure requirements.  

 Insurance authorities in the U.S. and certain other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate, including the FSA in the U.K., also have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations generally require the segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them.  

 Further, certain of our business activities within the Risk Solutions segment are governed by other regulatory bodies, including investment, securities and futures licensing authorities. In the U.S., we use Aon Benfield Securities, Inc., a U.S.-registered broker-dealer and investment advisor, member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") and Securities Investor Protection Corporation, and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Aon, for capital management transaction and advisory services and other broker-dealer activities.  

 Set forth below is a description of a matter reported pursuant to Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 and Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act. Concurrently with this annual report, we are filing a notice pursuant to Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act that the matter has been disclosed in this annual report.  

 In or around June 2005 , the reinsurance brokerage business of a U.K.-based Aon subsidiary placed two reinsurance policies on behalf of insurance carriers Asia Insurance Company and Central Insurance Iran (Bimeh Markazi) (the "Primary Carriers"), each of which is believed to be affiliated with the Government of Iran. Each policy related to the reinsurance of a portion of the Primary Carriers' insurance coverage of Mahan Air, an Iranian airline that, on October 12, 2011, was added to the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of Treasury. Beginning around June 2006, in connection with a loss covered by the reinsurance policies, the Primary Carriers sought to recover approximately $600,000 in reinsurance claims on behalf of Mahan Air. The claims funds were remitted by reinsurers to the Aon U.K. subsidiary, but, pursuant to company policy, the Aon subsidiary placed a hold on the funds and did not release the payment to the Primary Carriers due to the involvement of Specially Designated Nationals ("SDNs"). These activities occurred prior to the date on which the Aon U.K. subsidiary became subject to what is now the Iranian Transactions and Sanctions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. Part 560.  

 During 2012, a representative of the Primary Carriers inquired on two occasions as to whether the funds could be released. On both occasions, the Aon U.K. subsidiary advised that due to Aon policy, the funds could not be released because of Mahan Air's status as an SDN. The Aon U.K. subsidiary  

7 

did not earn any revenue or net income in 2012 from these activities, and it intends to continue to hold the property in accordance with company policy and applicable laws.  

 HR Solutions  

 Certain of the retirement-related consulting services provided by Aon Hewitt and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to the pension and financial laws and regulations of applicable jurisdictions, including oversight and/or supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in the U.S., the FSA in the U.K., and regulators in other countries. Aon Hewitt subsidiaries that provide investment advisory services are regulated by various U.S. federal authorities including the SEC and FINRA, as well as authorities on the state level. In addition, other services provided by Aon Hewitt and its subsidiaries and affiliates, such as trustee services, and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services, are subject in various jurisdictions to pension, investment, and securities and/or insurance laws and regulations and/or supervision by national regulators.  

 Clientele  

 Our clients operate in many businesses and industries throughout the world. No one client accounted for more than 1% of our consolidated total revenues in 2012. Additionally, we place insurance with many insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2012.  

 Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic Area of Operation  

 Financial information relating to the types of services provided by us and the geographic areas of our operations is incorporated herein by reference to Note 18 "Segment Information" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

 Employees  

 At December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 66,000 employees, of which approximately 23,000 worked in the U.S.  

 Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements  

 This report contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements relate to expectations or forecasts of future events. They use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "project," "intend," "plan," "potential," and other similar terms, and future or conditional tense verbs like "could," "may," "might," "should," "will" and "would." You can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. For example, we may use forward-looking statements when addressing topics such as: market and industry conditions, including competitive and pricing trends; changes in our business strategies and methods of generating revenue; the development and performance of our services and products; changes in the composition or level of our revenues; our cost structure and the outcome of cost-saving or restructuring initiatives; the outcome of contingencies; dividend policy; the expected impact of acquisitions and dispositions; pension obligations; cash flow and liquidity; future actions by regulators; and the impact of changes in accounting rules. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain  

8 

risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include:   

•general economic conditions in different countries in which Aon does business around the world, including conditions in the European Union relating to sovereign debt and the continued viability of the Euro;  

•changes in the competitive environment;  

•changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could influence the return on invested assets;   

•changes in the funding status of our various defined benefit pension plans and the impact of any increased pension funding resulting from those changes;  

•rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds;  

•fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could impact revenue and expense;   

•the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions and ERISA class actions;  

•the impact of any investigations brought by regulatory authorities in the U.S., U.K. and other countries;   

•the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, including potential liabilities arising from errors and omission claims against us;  

•failure to retain and attract qualified personnel;  

•the impact of, and potential challenges in complying with, legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate, particularly given the global scope of our business and the possibility of conflicting regulatory requirements across jurisdictions in which we do business;   

•the effect of the Redomestication on our operations and financial results, including the reaction of our clients, employees and other constituents, the effect of compliance with applicable U.K. regulatory regimes or the failure to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits;   

•the extent to which we retain existing clients and attract new businesses and our ability to incentivize and retain key employees;  

•the extent to which we manage certain risks created in connection with the various services, including fiduciary and advisory services, among others, that we currently provide, or will provide in the future, to clients;  

•the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings from the acquisition of Hewitt will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period;  

•the risk that the Hewitt businesses will not be integrated successfully;   

•our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, and the ability to achieve those cost savings;  

•the potential of a system or network disruption resulting in operational interruption or improper disclosure of personal data;  

•any inquiries relating to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws and with U.S. and non-U.S. trade sanctions regimes; and  

•our ability to grow and develop companies that we acquire or new lines of business.   

9 

 Any or all of our forward-looking statements may turn out to be inaccurate, and there are no guarantees about our performance. The factors identified above are not exhaustive. Aon and its subsidiaries operate in a dynamic business environment in which new risks may emerge frequently. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. We are under no obligation (and expressly disclaim any obligation) to update or alter any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Further information about factors that could materially affect Aon, including our results of operations and financial condition, is contained in the "Risk Factors" section in Part I, Item 1A of this report.  

 Website Access to Reports and Other Information  

 Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through our website (http://www.aon.com) as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also posted on our website are the charters for our Audit, Compliance, Organization and Compensation, Governance/Nominating and Finance Committees, our Governance Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), we will post on our website any amendment to or waiver of the Code of Business Conduct applicable to any executive officer or director. The information provided on our website is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference.  

     Item 1A. Risk Factors.