Item 1A.   Risk Factors     

 Risks Relating to Edison International   

 Edison International may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay funds to Edison International.  

 Edison International is a holding company and, as such, Edison International has no operations of its own. Edison International’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds to Edison International. Prior to funding Edison International, Edison International’s subsidiaries have financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. Financial market and economic conditions may have an adverse effect on Edison International’s subsidiaries. See “Risks Relating to SCE” and “Risks Relating to EME” below for further discussion.  

 Edison International’s cash flows and earnings could be adversely affected by tax developments relating to Edison Capital’s lease transactions.  

 Edison Capital entered into certain types of lease transactions which have been challenged by the Internal Revenue Service. Edison International is currently engaged in attempts to settle such challenges, but if it is unable to do so on acceptable terms and is not successful in its defense of the tax treatment of those transactions, the payment of taxes could have a significant impact on cash flows. Also, the adoption of changes in accounting policies relating to the accounting for leases could cause a material effect on reported earnings by requiring Edison International to reverse earnings previously recognized as a current period adjustment and to report these earnings over the remaining life of the leases. More information regarding the lease transactions is contained in the MD&A under the heading “Other Developments — Federal Income Taxes.”  

 Edison International and its subsidiaries are subject to costs and other effects of legal proceedings as well as changes in or additions to applicable tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation, and accounting standards.  

 Edison International and its subsidiaries are subject to costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims, as well as the effect of new, or changes in, tax laws, rates or policies, rates of inflation and accounting standards.  

 Edison International’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and adversely affect them.  

 Edison International’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulation and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs. SCE and EMG devote significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The U.S. Congress is deliberating over competing proposals to regulate GHG emissions. In addition, the attorneys general of several states, including California, certain environmental advocacy groups, and numerous state regulatory agencies in the United States have been focusing considerable attention on GHG emissions from coal-fired power plants and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement GHG controls could adversely affect operations, particularly of the coal-fired plants. The continued operation of SCE and EMG facilities, particularly the coal-fired facilities, may require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls. In addition, future environmental laws and regulations, and future enforcement proceedings that may be taken by environmental authorities, could affect the costs and the manner in which these subsidiaries conduct business. Current and future state laws and regulations in California could increase  

 35   
 the required amount of power that must be procured from renewable resources. Furthermore, changing environmental regulations could make some units uneconomical to maintain or operate. If the affected subsidiaries cannot comply with all applicable regulations, they could be required to retire or suspend operations at such facilities, or to restrict or modify the operations of these facilities, and their business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.   

 Risks Relating to SCE   

 SCE’s financial viability depends upon its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.  

 SCE is a regulated entity subject to CPUC jurisdiction in almost all aspects of its business, including the rates, terms and conditions of its services, procurement of electricity for its customers, issuance of securities, dispositions of utility assets and facilities and aspects of the siting and operations of its electricity distribution systems. SCE’s ongoing financial viability depends on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, in its CPUC-approved rates and its ability to pass through to its customers in rates its FERC-authorized revenue requirements. SCE’s financial viability also depends on its ability to recover in rates an adequate return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. If SCE is unable to recover any material amount of its costs in rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on capital, its financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected.  

 SCE’s energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could adversely affect its financial condition, liquidity, and earnings.  

 SCE obtains energy, capacity, and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants and contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover in customer rates reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE’s cash flows remain subject to volatility resulting from its procurement activities. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance of procurement activities with its procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs.  

 Many of SCE’s power purchase contracts are tied to market prices for natural gas. Some of its contracts also are subject to volatility in market prices for electricity. SCE seeks to hedge its market price exposure to the extent authorized by the CPUC. SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on favorable terms or fully recover the costs of hedges in rates, which could adversely affect SCE’s liquidity and results of operation.  

 In its power purchase contracts and other procurement arrangements, SCE is exposed to risks from changes in the credit quality of its counterparties, many of whom may be adversely affected by the current conditions in the financial markets. If a counterparty were to default on its obligations, SCE could be exposed to potentially volatile spot markets for buying replacement power or selling excess power.  

 SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access capital markets or the cost of capital were to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations could be adversely affected.  

 SCE’s ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest, refinance debt, and fund its operations and planned capital expenditure projects depends on its cash flow and access to the capital markets. SCE’s ability to arrange financing and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, including its levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. Market conditions which could adversely affect SCE’s financing costs and availability include:  

  •   current financial market and economic conditions;   

  •   market prices for electricity or gas;    

 36   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 SCE may not be successful in obtaining additional capital for these or other reasons. The failure to obtain additional capital from time to time may have a material adverse effect on SCE’s liquidity and operations.  

 SCE is subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.  

 SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE’s business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. The CPUC regulates SCE’s retail operations, and the FERC regulates SCE’s wholesale operations. The NRC regulates SCE’s nuclear power plants. The construction, planning, and siting of SCE’s power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy Commission (for plants 50 MW or greater), and the CPUC. The construction, planning and siting of transmission lines that are outside of California are subject to the regulation of the relevant state agency. Additional regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over some of SCE’s operations and construction projects include the California Air Resources Board, the California State Water Resources Control Board, the California Department of Toxic Substances Control, the California Coastal Commission, the US EPA, the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services, the U.S. Forest Service, Regional Water Quality Boards, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the United States Department of Energy, the NRC, and various local regulatory districts.  

 SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE’s business could be adversely affected. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE or SCE’s facilities in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on SCE’s business or result in significant additional costs because of SCE’s need to comply with those requirements.  

 There are inherent risks associated with operating nuclear power generating facilities.  

 Spent fuel storage capacity could be insufficient to permit long-term operation of SCE’s nuclear plants.  

 SCE operates and is majority owner of San Onofre and is part owner of Palo Verde. The United States Department of Energy has defaulted on its obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel from commercial nuclear industry participants by January 31, 1998. If SCE or the operator of Palo Verde were unable to arrange and maintain sufficient capacity for interim spent-fuel storage now or in the future, it could hinder operation of the plants and impair the value of SCE’s ownership interests until storage could be obtained, each of which may have a material adverse effect on SCE.  

 Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident.  

 Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection which is currently approximately $12.5 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde nuclear generating stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $300 million per site. If the public liability limit above is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. This could include an additional assessment on all licensed reactor operators as a measure for raising further revenue. If this were to occur, a tension could exist between the federal government’s attempt to impose revenue-raising measures upon SCE and the CPUC’s willingness to allow SCE to pass this liability along to its customers, resulting in undercollection of SCE’s costs. There can be no assurance of SCE’s ability to recover uninsured costs in the event federal appropriations are insufficient.  

 37   
 SCE’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities.  

 SCE owns and operates extensive electricity facilities that are interconnected to the United States western electricity grid. SCE is also undertaking large-scale new infrastructure construction. The construction of infrastructure involves numerous risks, including risks related to permitting, governmental approvals, and construction delays. The operation of SCE’s facilities and the facilities of third parties on which it relies involves numerous risks, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The occurrence of any of these events could result in lower revenues or increased expenses and liabilities, or both, which may not be fully recovered through insurance, rates or other means in a timely manner or at all.  

 SCE’s insurance coverage may not be sufficient under all circumstances and SCE may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance.  

 SCE’s insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which it may be subject. A loss for which SCE is not fully insured could materially and adversely affect SCE’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, due to rising insurance costs and changes in the insurance markets, insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to SCE.   

 Risks Relating to EME   

 The global financial crisis may have a material adverse impact on EME’s access to capital necessary to fund contractual obligations and the ability of EME’s counterparties to perform their contractual obligations.  

 Financial market and economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on EME’s business and financial condition. The capital markets were not available to EME during the fourth quarter of 2008, and market uncertainty has continued into 2009. EME’s ability to raise capital has been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by volatile and unpredictable global market and economic conditions. Even after the capital markets recover, recent disruptions in the credit markets may have lasting effects on the availability of credit, cost of borrowing, and terms and conditions of new borrowings.  

 In September 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc., a lender in EME’s credit agreement representing a commitment of $36 million, declined requests for funding under that agreement. Thereafter, in October 2008, it filed for bankruptcy protection. While the Lehman Commercial Paper bankruptcy is not expected to have a material adverse effect on EME, the situation may worsen if other lenders under the credit agreement file for bankruptcy or otherwise fail to perform their obligations.  

 38   
 Liquidity is essential to EME’s business. EME cannot provide assurance that its projected sources of capital will be available when needed or that its actual cash requirements will not be greater than expected. Lack of available capital may affect EME’s ability to complete environmental improvements of the Illinois Plants as prescribed by the CPS, which could lead to the eventual shutdown of a material part of the Illinois Plants. Lack of available capital could also affect EME’s ability to complete the development of sites for renewable projects deploying current turbine commitments, which could lead to postponement or cancellation of the turbine commitments subject to the provisions of the related contracts. In addition to the potential effect on EME’s liquidity, the global financial crisis could have a negative effect on the markets in which EME and its subsidiaries sell power, purchase fuel and perform other trading and marketing activities. In recent years, global financial institutions have been active participants in such markets. As such financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital constraints in response to the financial crisis, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets, which could have a negative effect on EME’s ability to hedge and transact with creditworthy counterparties. In addition, EME is exposed to the risk that its counterparties, including customers, suppliers and business partners, may fail to perform according to the terms of their contractual arrangements. Deterioration in the financial condition of EME’s counterparties as a result of the global financial crisis, and the resulting failure to pay amounts owed or to perform obligations in excess of posted collateral, could have a negative effect on EME’s business and financial condition.  

 EME has substantial interests in merchant energy power plants which are subject to market risks related to wholesale energy prices.  

 EME’s merchant energy power plants do not have long-term power purchase agreements. Because the output of these power plants is not committed to be sold under long-term contracts, these projects are subject to market forces which determine the amount and price of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from the power plants. The factors that influence the market price for energy, capacity and ancillary services include:  

  •   prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas and fuel oil, and associated transportation;   

  •   the extent of additional supplies of capacity, energy and ancillary services from current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generation facilities or technologies that may be able to produce electricity at a lower cost than EME’s generating facilities and/or increased access by competitors to EME’s markets as a result of transmission upgrades;   

  •   transmission congestion in and to each market area and the resulting differences in prices between delivery points;   

  •   the market structure rules established for each market area and regulatory developments affecting the market areas, including any price limitations and other mechanisms adopted to address volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical stability of the system;   

  •   the ability of regional pools to pay market participants’ settlement prices for energy and related products;   

  •   the cost and availability of emission credits or allowances;   

  •   the availability, reliability and operation of competing power generation facilities, including nuclear generating plants where applicable, and the extended operation of such facilities beyond their presently expected dates of decommissioning;   

  •   weather conditions prevailing in surrounding areas from time to time; and   

  •   changes in the demand for electricity or in patterns of electricity usage as a result of factors such as regional economic conditions and the implementation of conservation programs.    

 In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced concurrently with its use. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to significant and unpredictable price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time. There is no assurance that EME’s merchant energy power plants will be successful in selling power into their markets or that the prices received for their power will generate positive cash flows. If EME’s merchant energy power plants do not  

 39   
 meet these objectives, they may not be able to generate enough cash to service their own debt and lease obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on EME.  

 EME’s financial results can be affected by changes in fuel prices, fuel transportation cost increases, and interruptions in fuel supply.  

 EME’s business is subject to changes in fuel costs, which may negatively affect its financial results and financial position by increasing the cost of producing power. The fuel markets can be volatile, and actual fuel prices can differ from EME’s expectations.  

 Although EME attempts to purchase fuel based on its known fuel requirements, it is still subject to the risks of supply interruptions, transportation cost increases, and fuel price volatility. In addition, fuel deliveries may not exactly match energy sales, due in part to the need to purchase fuel inventories in advance for reliability and dispatch requirements. The price at which EME can sell its energy may not rise or fall at the same rate as a corresponding rise or fall in fuel costs.  

 EME may not be able to hedge market risks effectively.  

 EME is exposed to market risks through its ownership and operation of merchant energy power plants and through its power marketing business. These market risks include, among others, volatility arising from the timing differences associated with buying fuel, converting fuel into energy and delivering energy to a buyer. EME uses forward contracts and derivative financial instruments, such as futures contracts and options, to manage market risks and exposure to fluctuating electricity and fuel prices. However, EME cannot provide assurance that these strategies successfully mitigate market risks.  

 EME may not cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility, and the level of coverage will vary over time. Fluctuating commodity prices may negatively affect EME’s financial results to the extent that assets and positions have not been hedged.  

 The effectiveness of EME’s hedging activities may depend on the amount of working capital available to post as collateral in support of these transactions, either in support of performance guarantees or as a cash margin. The amount of credit support that must be provided typically is based on the difference between the price of the commodity in a given contract and the market price of the commodity. Significant movements in market prices can result in a requirement to provide cash collateral and letters of credit in very large amounts. Without adequate liquidity to meet margin and collateral requirements, EME could be exposed to the following:  

  •   a reduction in the number of counterparties willing to enter into bilateral contracts, which would result in increased reliance on short-term and spot markets instead of bilateral contracts, increasing EME’s exposure to market volatility; and   

  •   a failure to meet a margining requirement, which could permit the counterparty to terminate the related bilateral contract early and demand immediate payment for the replacement value of the contract.    

 As a result of these and other factors, EME cannot predict the effect that risk management decisions may have on its businesses, operating results or financial position.  

 EME’s development projects or future acquisitions may not be successful.  

 EME’s future financial condition, results of operation and cash flows will depend in large part upon its ability to successfully implement its long-term strategy, which includes the development and acquisition of electric power generation facilities, with an emphasis on renewable energy (primarily wind and solar) and gas-fired power plants. EME may be unable to identify attractive acquisition or development opportunities and/or to complete and integrate them on a successful and timely basis. Furthermore, implementation of this strategy may be affected by factors beyond EME’s control, such as increased competition, legal and regulatory developments, price volatility in electric or fuel markets, and general economic conditions.  

 40   
 In support of its development activities, EME has entered into commitments to purchase wind turbines for future projects and may make substantial additional commitments in the future. In addition, EME expends significant amounts for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal and other expenses before it can determine whether it will win a competitive bid, or whether a project is feasible or economically attractive.  

 Historically, wind projects have received federal subsidies in the form of production tax credits. Currently, production tax credits are available for new wind projects placed in service by December 31, 2012. If the deadline for production tax credits is not extended again, EME’s development activities related to wind projects slated for completion after December 31, 2012, could be adversely affected.  

 EME’s development activities are subject to risks including, without limitation, risks related to project siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project agreements, including power-purchase agreements. Moreover, recent economic conditions may affect the willingness of local utilities to enter into new power-purchase agreements due to uncertainties over future load requirements, among other factors. As a result of these risks, EME may not be successful in developing new projects or the timing of such development may be delayed beyond the date that turbines are ready for installation. Projects under development may be adversely affected by delays in turbine deliveries or start-up problems related to turbine performance. If a project under development is abandoned, EME would expense all capitalized development costs incurred in connection with that project, and could incur additional losses associated with any related contingent liabilities. If EME is not successful in developing new projects, it may be required to cancel turbine orders, or sell turbines that were purchased and such cancellation and/or sales may result in substantial losses.  

 Finally, EME cannot provide assurance that its development projects or acquired assets will generate sufficient cash flow to support the indebtedness incurred to acquire them or the capital expenditures needed to develop them, or that EME will ultimately realize a satisfactory rate of return.  

 A substantial portion of wind turbines purchased by EME may not perform as expected during start-up or operations, thereby adversely affecting the expected return on investment.  

 EME has purchased a significant number of wind turbines in support of its renewable energy activities. The turbines of one turbine manufacturer have experienced rotor blade cracks, and the turbines of another turbine manufacturer have also experienced blade problems. EME cannot provide assurance that repairs or replacements of the affected turbines will be timely or effective or that expected performance levels will be achieved. Significant delays in meeting commercial operation deadlines and/or reductions in project output could subject projects to damages under their power purchase agreements and, potentially, the risk of termination under some agreements. Turbine problems have also impacted EME’s ability to secure project financing for these projects. EME cannot predict at this time the amount of damages that will be recovered by EME from the turbine suppliers. Furthermore, limited data is presently available regarding the performance of new wind turbines of a size over 2 MW over an extended period of time. Accordingly, EME cannot provide assurance that it will earn its expected return over the life of the projects.  

 Competition could adversely affect EME’s business.  

 The independent power industry is characterized by numerous capable competitors, some of whom may have more extensive experience in the acquisition and development of power projects, larger staffs, and greater financial resources than EME. Several participants in the wholesale markets, including many regulated utilities, have a lower cost of capital than most merchant generators and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation assets without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. This could affect EME’s ability to compete effectively in the markets in which those entities operate.  

 Newer plants owned by EME’s competitors are often more efficient than EME’s facilities. This may put some of EME’s facilities at a competitive disadvantage to the extent that its competitors are able to produce more power from each increment of fuel than EME’s merchant facilities are capable of producing. Over time, some  

 41   
 of EME’s facilities may become obsolete in their markets, or be unable to compete, because of the construction of newer, more efficient power plants.  

 In addition to the competition already existing in the markets in which EME presently operates or may consider operating in the future, EME is likely to encounter significant competition as a result of further consolidation of the power industry by mergers and asset reallocations, which could create larger competitors, as well as new market entrants. In addition, regulatory initiatives may result in changes in the power industry to which EME may not be able to respond in as timely and effective manner as its competitors.  

 EME’s projects may be affected by general operating risks and hazards customary in the power generation industry. EME may not have adequate insurance to cover all these hazards.  

 The operation of power generation facilities involves many operating risks, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of or damage to the environment, and suspension of operations. The occurrence of one or more of the events listed above could decrease or eliminate revenues generated by EME’s projects or significantly increase the costs of operating them, and could also result in EME’s being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, potentially including environmental cleanup costs, personal injury, property damage, fines and penalties. Equipment and plant warranties, guarantees and insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances to cover lost revenues or increased expenses. A decrease or elimination in revenues generated by the facilities or an increase in the costs of operating them could decrease or eliminate funds available to meet EME’s obligations as they become due and could have a material adverse effect on EME. A default under a financing obligation of a project entity could result in a loss of EME’s interest in the project.  

 EME is subject to extensive environmental regulation and permitting requirements that may involve significant and increasing costs.  

 EME’s operations are subject to extensive environmental regulations with respect to, among other things, air quality, water quality, waste disposal, and noise. EME is required to obtain, and comply with conditions established by, licenses, permits and other approvals, in order to construct, operate or modify its facilities. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject EME to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, or actions by regulatory agencies seeking to curtail EME’s operations. See “— Risks relating to Edison International — Edison International’s subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and adversely affect them” above for additional discussion of environmental regulation risks.  

 42   
 EME is subject to extensive energy industry regulation.  

 EME’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies. EME’s projects are subject to federal laws and regulations that govern, among other things, transactions by and with purchasers of power, including utility companies, the development and construction of generation facilities, the ownership and operations of generation facilities, and access to transmission. Under limited circumstances where exclusive federal jurisdiction is not applicable or specific exemptions or waivers from state or federal laws or regulations are otherwise unavailable, federal and/or state utility regulatory commissions may have broad jurisdiction over non-utility owned electric power plants. Generation facilities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation of a project.  

 The FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, where it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires mitigation. In addition, many of EME’s facilities are subject to rules, restrictions and terms of participation imposed and administered by various RTOs and ISOs. For example, ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to facilitate market functions. Such actions may materially affect EME’s results of operations.  

 There is no assurance that the introduction of new laws or other future regulatory developments will not have a material adverse effect on EME’s business, results of operations or financial condition, nor is there any assurance that EME will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for its projects. If projects cannot comply with all applicable regulations, EME’s business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.  

 EME and its subsidiaries have a substantial amount of indebtedness, including long-term lease obligations.  

 As of December 31, 2007, EME’s consolidated debt was $3.8 billion. In addition, EME’s subsidiaries have $3.9 billion of long-term power plant lease obligations that are due over a period ranging up to 27 years. The substantial amount of consolidated debt and financial obligations presents the risk that EME and its subsidiaries might not have sufficient cash to service their indebtedness or long-term lease obligations and that the existing corporate debt, project debt and lease obligations could limit the ability of EME and its subsidiaries to grow their business, to compete effectively or to operate successfully under adverse economic conditions or to plan for and react to business and industry changes. If EME’s or a subsidiary’s cash flows and capital resources were insufficient to allow it to make scheduled payments on its debt, EME or its subsidiaries might have to reduce or delay capital expenditures (including environmental improvements required by the CPS, which could in turn lead to unit shutdowns), sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance the debt. The terms of EME’s or its subsidiaries’ debt may not allow these alternative measures, the debt or equity may not be available on acceptable terms, and these alternative measures may not satisfy all scheduled debt service obligations.  

 In addition, in connection with the entry into new financings or amendments to existing financing arrangements, EME’s financial and operational flexibility may be further reduced as a result of more restrictive covenants, requirements for security and other terms that are often imposed on sub-investment grade entities.  

 Restrictions in the instruments governing EME’s indebtedness and the indebtedness and lease obligations of its subsidiaries limit EME’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to enter into specified transactions that EME or they otherwise may enter into.  

 The instruments governing EME’s indebtedness and the indebtedness of its subsidiaries contain financial and investment covenants. Restrictions contained in these documents or documents EME or its subsidiaries enter in the future could affect, and in some cases significantly limit or prohibit, EME’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur, refinance, and prepay debt, make capital expenditures, pay dividends and make other distributions, make investments, create liens, sell assets, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, issue equity interests, enter into transactions with affiliates, create restrictions on the  

 43   
 ability to pay dividends or make other distributions and engage in mergers and consolidations. These restrictions may significantly impede EME’s ability and the ability of its subsidiaries to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, to grow its business or to compete effectively. In addition, these restrictions may significantly impede the ability of EME’s subsidiaries to make distributions to EME.  

 The creditworthiness of EME’s customers, suppliers, transporters and other business partners could affect EME’s business and operations.  

 EME is exposed to risks associated with the creditworthiness of its key customers, suppliers and business partners, many of whom may be adversely affected by the current conditions in the financial markets. Deterioration in the financial condition of EME’s counterparties increases the possibility that EME may incur losses from the failure of counterparties to perform according to the terms of their contractual arrangements.  

 EME’s operations depend on contracts for the supply and transportation of fuel and other services required for the operation of its generation facilities and are exposed to the risk that counterparties to contracts will not perform their obligations. If a fuel supplier or transporter failed to perform under a contract, EME would need to obtain alternate supplies or transportation, which could result in higher costs or disruptions in its operations. If the defaulting counterparty is in poor financial condition, damages related to a breach of contract may not be recoverable. Accordingly, the failure of counterparties to fulfill their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on EME’s financial results.  

 The accounting for EME’s hedging and proprietary trading activities may increase the volatility of its quarterly and annual financial results.  

 EME engages in hedging activities in order to mitigate its exposure to market risk with respect to electricity sales from its generation facilities, fuel utilized by those facilities and emission allowances. EME generally attempts to balance its fixed-price physical and financial purchases and sales commitments in terms of contract volumes and the timing of performance and delivery obligations through the use of financial and physical derivative contracts. EME also uses derivative contracts with respect to its limited proprietary trading activities, through which EME attempts to achieve incremental returns by transacting where it has specific market expertise. These derivative contracts are recorded on its balance sheet at fair value pursuant to SFAS No. 133. Some of these derivative contracts do not qualify under SFAS No. 133 for hedge accounting, and changes in their fair value are therefore recognized currently in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. As a result, EME’s financial results will at times be volatile and subject to fluctuations in value primarily due to changes in electricity prices.  

 44   
  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments    

 None.  

  Item 2.    Properties