Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.    

 This section includes a discussion of our operations for the three years ended December 31, 2008. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Overview  

 In 2008, we saw significant changes in the environment in which we operate, including severe economic uncertainty, increasing market volatility and continued tightening of credit markets, as well as a merger of two of the largest industry competitors. The market conditions in 2008 contributed to record high fuel and commodity prices during most of the year and nearly unprecedented drops in these commodity prices in the second half of the year. We often note that we are a recession resilient industry, but in challenging economic times, reduced consumer and business spending means less waste is being produced. Additionally, businesses across the country are experiencing slower demands for their products and services and a tightening of the credit markets, which makes it more difficult for many of our customers to pay their bills, leading to decreases in the services they request and, in some cases, cancelling our services all together.  

 Against this backdrop, we believe that our results of operations show just how successful we have been in improving our business. The highlights in 2008 include:  

    •   An increase in revenues of $78 million in 2008 as compared with the prior year, driven by internal revenue growth on base business due to yield of 2.8%;   

    •   Income from operations as a percentage of revenue of 16.7% in 2008 as compared with 16.9% in 2007, in spite of:    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

    (i)   a $33 million non-cash charge for an increase in the estimated present value of recorded obligations for environmental remediation liabilities due to a sharp decline in risk-free interest rates at year-end; and   

    (ii)   $50 million of costs associated with labor related matters, which were primarily for the withdrawal of certain collective bargaining units from underfunded multi-employer pension funds, compared with $33 million of costs incurred for labor disruptions in 2007;    

    •   Strong and consistent diluted earnings per share, which was $2.19 in 2008 compared with $2.23 in 2007; and   

    •   An increase in cash flow generated from operating activities of 5.6%, from $2,439 million in 2007 to $2,575 million in 2008.    

 We experienced revenue increases during each of the first three quarters of 2008 as compared with 2007, followed by a significant decline in revenues in the fourth quarter caused primarily by the effect of the recycling commodities markets and the decrease in revenues from our fuel surcharge program. Our pricing program, which focuses on ensuring that we receive appropriate pricing for all of our services, continued to provide significant increases in our revenues from base business yield during 2008, reflecting our commitment to pricing discipline  

 21   
 despite the economic environment. We are committed to our pricing excellence program, and do not intend to take volumes at prices that do not cover our costs and provide strong operating margins.  

 Our operating costs increased by $64 million, or less than one percent, in 2008 as compared with 2007. The largest contributors to the increase were the result of conditions discussed above. The negative effect of these cost increases was offset, in part, by benefits from our focus on operating efficiencies, managing fixed costs and reducing variable costs as our volumes decline due to (i) the slowdown in the economy; (ii) our pricing program; and (iii) divestitures.  

 Our selling, general and administrative expenses increased by $45 million, or 3.1%, in 2008 as compared with 2007. The increase is largely attributable to increased labor costs as a result of merit increases, headcount increases, higher compensation costs associated with our equity-based compensation program for our senior employees, and higher insurance and benefit costs. We have also seen an increase in bad debt expense as a result of the weakened economy. Finally, we have incurred significant costs for our business development initiatives, which are focused on gaining new customers and entering new lines of business that are complementary to our core operations. These are costs that we believe are necessary to position Waste Management as a leading environmental solutions provider.  

 As is our practice, we are including free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We also believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors greater insight into how we view our liquidity. Nonetheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

 We calculate free cash flow as shown in the table below (in millions), which may not be the same as similarly titled measures presented by other companies:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our free cash flow in 2008 exceeded the $1.4 billion we targeted for the year, which we believe is indicative of our continued ability to generate strong cash flow from our operations even in a challenging economic environment. The decrease in our free cash flow when comparing 2008 with 2007 is due to decreased proceeds from divestitures, which is largely a result of having fewer underperforming operations to sell as part of our fix-or-seek-exit initiative, offset in large part by growth in our net cash provided by operating activities.  

 Outlook  

 In 2008, we experienced challenges associated with changing market conditions, which caused significant volatility in fuel and recyclable commodity prices, and the tightening of the economy, which has put negative pressure on both consumer and business spending, resulting in less consumption and waste produced. However, we are encouraged that our 2008 results demonstrate that the cornerstones of our business are resilient in a difficult economic environment. We believe we are well positioned to weather the current economic downturn. In 2009, we will focus on (i) ensuring that we are operating efficiently; and (ii) generating strong and consistent free cash flow.  

 In February 2009, we announced that we are taking steps to further streamline our organization by consolidating many of our Market Areas. As a result of our restructuring, the 45 separate Market Areas that we previously operated have been consolidated into 25 Areas. We currently estimate that this restructuring will eliminate over  

 22   
 1,000 employee positions throughout the Company and result in a restructuring charge of between $40 million and $50 million. We expect to recognize most of this charge during the first quarter of 2009. This realignment is the next step in our efforts to lower costs and further standardize processes and improve productivity, and we currently estimate that it will provide annualized cost savings in excess of $100 million.  

 Although we expect that our net cash provided by operating activities may be negatively affected by general economic conditions, we believe that we will continue to generate strong cash flow from operations, which, along with our available cash, will provide sufficient liquidity to allow us to return value to our shareholders. Our 2009 capital allocation program provides for up to $1.3 billion in aggregate dividend payments, share repurchases, acquisitions and debt reductions. In 2009, we have significant debt repayment obligations, and while we currently intend to refinance a significant portion of the required repayments on a long-term basis, it is possible that we may not have access to the credit markets on acceptable terms. If the credit markets are not available to us, or are not available on terms we deem acceptable, we expect to rely on our available cash, our existing credit facility and the cash we generate from our operations to meet our debt repayment and other obligations. Our discretionary spending includes acquisitions of assets and businesses, dividends, repurchases of our common stock and certain capital expenditures. To the extent operating cash flows decline or are needed to support our debt repayment obligations, we have the ability to reduce our discretionary spending and still deliver superior service to our customers and a strong financial performance for our stockholders.  

 Over the years, the recyclables that we process have been subject to significant market price fluctuations, and in the first three quarters of 2008, increases in the prices of recycling commodities contributed to our revenue growth, margin expansion and earnings. However, our fourth quarter 2008 operating results reflect the significant dislocation in the commodities markets, including substantial reductions in demand both domestically and internationally. In this environment, we have experienced sharp declines in commodity prices and a degree of difficulty in selling recyclable commodities, including at contractually defined prices. We currently expect this market downturn to reduce our revenues and negatively affect our earnings and operating cash flows in 2009. Further, a sustained period of depressed commodity prices and/or demand for recyclables could result in a significant decline in the estimated fair value of WMRA, which could require us to record a non-cash impairment charge to their goodwill.  

 As discussed in our Overview, the cost of fuel also fell significantly in the second half of 2008. We do not expect future volatility in fuel prices to significantly affect our income from operations. However, we do expect the sharp decline in fuel prices to significantly reduce (i) the revenue provided by our fuel surcharge program; and (ii) our direct and indirect fuel costs in 2009 as compared with 2008.  

 Technology Update — On March 20, 2008, we filed a lawsuit in state court in the Southern District of Texas against SAP AG and SAP America, Inc., alleging fraud and breach of contract. The lawsuit relates to our 2005 software license from SAP for a waste and recycling revenue management system and agreement for SAP to implement the software on a fixed-fee basis. We have been assigned a trial date in October 2009. As we continue to assess the alternatives available to us, we may determine that the best course of action is to abandon the SAP revenue management system, which would result in an impairment charge of between $45 million and $55 million.  

 Basis of Presentation of Consolidated and Segment Financial Information  

 Accounting Changes — Effective January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157 for assets and liabilities recognized at fair value on a recurring basis. Our adoption of SFAS No. 157 during the first quarter of 2008 resulted in the recognition of a $6 million charge to operating expenses and a corresponding $3 million credit to minority interest expense for the re-measurement of the fair value of environmental remediation recovery assets accounted for in accordance with Statement of Position No. 96-1, Environmental Remediation Liabilities. The adoption of SFAS No. 157 did not materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 17 for information about our fair value measurements.  

 Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FIN 48 and FSP No. 48-1. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns. In addition, FIN 48 provides guidance on the de-recognition, classification and disclosure of tax positions, as well as the accounting for related interest and penalties. FSP No. 48-1 provides guidance associated  

 23   
 with the criteria that must be evaluated in determining if a tax position has been effectively settled and should be recognized as a tax benefit.  

 Refer to Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the impact of the implementation of these new accounting pronouncements on our results of operations and financial position.  

 Reclassification of Segment Information — During the second quarter of 2008, we moved certain Canadian business operations from the Western Group to the Midwest Group to facilitate improved business execution. We have reflected the impact of this change for all periods presented to provide financial information that consistently reflects our current approach to managing our operations.  

 Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

 In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, stockholders’ equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments and self-insurance reserves and recoveries, as described below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

 Landfills — The cost estimates for final capping, closure and post-closure activities at landfills for which we have responsibility are estimated based on our interpretations of current requirements and proposed or anticipated regulatory changes. We also estimate additional costs, pursuant to the requirements of SFAS No. 143, based on the amount a third party would charge us to perform such activities even when we expect to perform these activities internally. We estimate the airspace to be consumed related to each final capping event and the timing of construction related to each final capping event and of closure and post-closure activities. Because landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations are measured at estimated fair value using present value techniques, changes in the estimated timing of construction of future landfill final capping and closure and post-closure activities would have an effect on these liabilities, related assets and results of operations.  

 Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

 Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to specific capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

 24   
 Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure maintenance and monitoring. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

 Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is then used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

 Expansion Airspace — We include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

    •   Personnel are actively working to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals for an expansion of an existing landfill;   

    •   It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located;   

    •   We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;   

    •   There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion;   

    •   Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and   

    •   Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post-closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design.    

 For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if these criteria are no longer met, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval of the Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 42 landfill sites with expansions at December 31, 2008, 19 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Ten of these landfills required approval by the Chief Financial Officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining nine landfills required approval primarily due to the permit application processes not meeting the one- or five-year requirements, as a result of state-specific permitting procedures.  

 Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor, or AUF, is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and then adjusted to account for settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate, and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent  

 25   
 multi-level review by our engineering group and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

 When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, and closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

 After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

 It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates, higher final capping, closure or post-closure rates, or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that the expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of the landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment. If it is determined that the likelihood of receiving an expansion permit has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

 Environmental Remediation Liabilities — We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party, or PRP, investigations, settlements, certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on several estimates and assumptions.  

 We estimate costs required to remediate sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

    •   Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;   

    •   Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;   

    •   The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and   

    •   The typical allocation of costs among PRPs unless the actual allocation has been determined.    

 Asset Impairments — Our long-lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We review the carrying value of our long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. In order to assess whether a potential impairment exists, the assets’ carrying values are compared with their undiscounted expected future cash flows. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment about factors such as general economic conditions and projected growth rates,  

 26   
 and our estimates often vary from cash flows eventually realized. Impairments are measured by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset; (ii) actual third-party valuations; and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market environment for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs.  

 There are other considerations for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as described below.  

 Landfills — Certain impairment indicators require significant judgment and understanding of the waste industry when applied to landfill development or expansion projects. For example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the ordinary course of business and not necessarily be considered indicators of impairment of our landfill assets due to the unique nature of the waste industry.  

 Goodwill — At least annually, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. We assess whether an impairment exists by comparing the fair value of each Group to its carrying value, including goodwill. We rely on discounted cash flow analysis, which requires significant judgments and estimates about the future operations of each Group, to develop our estimates of fair value. Additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired.  

 Self-insurance reserves and recoveries — We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, generally is estimated with the assistance of external actuaries and by factoring in pending claims and historical trends and data. Our estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly different than our ultimate obligations if variables such as the frequency or severity of future incidents are significantly different than what we assume. Estimated insurance recoveries related to recorded liabilities are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

 Results of Operations  

 Operating Revenues  

 Our operating revenues in 2008 were $13.4 billion, compared with $13.3 billion in 2007 and $13.4 billion in 2006. We manage and evaluate our operations primarily through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western, Wheelabrator and WMRA Groups. These six operating Groups are our reportable segments. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year provided by our six operating Groups and our Other waste services:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 27   
 Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, Wheelabrator and recycling services. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the weight, volume and type of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Our Wheelabrator revenues are based on the type and volume of waste received at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs and fees charged for the sale of energy and steam. Recycling revenue, which is generated by our WMRA Group as well as recycling operations embedded in the operations of our four geographic operating Groups, generally consists of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for fuel. Our “other” revenues include our in-plant services, methane gas recovery, Port-O-Let® services, street and parking lot sweeping services, portable self-storage, fluorescent lamp recycling and healthcare solutions services. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The mix of operating revenues from our different services is reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions) and includes internal revenue growth calculated as a percentage of revenues from related business and as a percentage of total Company revenues:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 28   
  (a)    These percentages are calculated by dividing the amount of the current year increase by the prior year’s related business revenue adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($130 million and $320 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively). The table below summarizes the related business revenues for each year, which were used to calculate the percentages of related business:   

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (b)    These percentages are calculated by dividing the amount of the current year increase or decrease by the prior year’s total company revenue ($13,310 million and $13,363 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively) adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($130 million and $320 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively).   

 Base Business — Yield on base business reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, disposal and waste-to-energy operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from base business yield includes not only price and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business; and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

 In both 2008 and 2007, our pricing excellence initiative was the primary contributor to our revenue growth from base business yield. Although our pricing programs are contributing to yield improvements in each of our core solid waste lines of business, the increase in revenue from base business yield has been driven by our collection operations in each reported period. Increased collection revenues due to yield were more than offset by revenue declines from lower collection volumes. However, we continue to find that, in spite of collection volume declines, increased yield on base business and a focus on controlling variable costs provide notable margin improvements and earnings expansion in our collection line of business.  

 Throughout 2008 and 2007, we also experienced increases in revenue due to yield on base business from our pricing excellence initiative at our transfer stations and the municipal solid waste streams at our landfills. The increases in transfer station revenues have been the most significant in the Eastern portion of the United States. At our landfills, municipal solid waste revenue growth from yield has been the most significant in our Southern Group, although the Midwest and Western Groups also provided notable revenue growth from yield in this line of business. In 2007, we also experienced increases in revenue due to yield on base business in the special waste and construction and demolition waste streams at our landfills.  

 In addition to the revenue growth provided by our pricing initiative, we saw an increase in revenue from yield at our waste-to-energy facilities in 2008. This increase was largely due to annual rate increases for electricity under long-term contracts and favorable energy market pricing, which is generally indexed to natural gas prices.  

 Revenues from our environmental fee, which is included in base business yield, were $181 million, $121 million and $76 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

 Commodity — For the first nine months of 2008, revenues increased $178 million due to higher recycling prices as compared with the prior year period. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, a rapid decline in commodity prices due to a significant decrease in the demand for commodities both domestically and  

 29   
 internationally caused a year-over-year revenue decrease of $97 million. In 2008, average prices for old corrugated cardboard decreased 9% and average prices for old newsprint increased by 14%. However, when comparing commodity prices during the fourth quarter of 2008 with the comparable prior year period, average prices for old corrugated cardboard decreased by 58% and average prices for old newsprint decreased by 30%.  

 In 2007, average prices for old corrugated cardboard increased by 62% and average prices for old newsprint increased by 39% when compared with 2006, which drove the $306 million of revenue growth from commodity yield in 2007.  

 Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — Fuel surcharges increased revenues year-over-year by $189 million in 2008. This increase is due to our continued effort to pass on our higher fuel costs to our customers through fuel surcharges. Although our fuel surcharge program is designed to respond to changes in the market price for fuel, there is an administrative delay between the time our fuel costs change and when we are able to make the corresponding change in our fuel surcharges. This delay negatively affected our ability to fully recover our cost increases in the first six months of 2008 as the increases in our fuel surcharges consistently lagged the sharp increases in fuel costs throughout the first half of the year. However, the cost of fuel began to decline during the third quarter of 2008, allowing us to fully recover the fuel cost increases we incurred during the year.  

 Fuel surcharges increased revenues year-over-year by $29 million in 2007. Market prices for fuel were relatively flat for the first nine months of 2007, but increased sharply during the fourth quarter. Accordingly, all of the revenue increase due to fuel surcharges in 2007 was generated during the fourth quarter, and we were unable to fully recover our higher fuel costs for the period.  

 The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to the pass-through of fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal governmental agencies at our landfills and transfer stations. These mandated fees have not had a significant impact on the comparability of revenues for the periods included in the table above.  

 Volume — The decline in our revenues due to lower volumes when comparing 2008 with 2007 has been driven by declines in our collection volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower transfer station, recycling and third-party disposal volumes. Decreases in 2008 revenue due to lower volumes are discussed in more detail below:  

 Our revenues from collection volumes continue to be affected by our focus on improving margins through increased pricing. However, the slowdown in the economy has also had a significant impact on our industrial collection line of business as a result of the continued slowdown in both residential and commercial construction activities across the United States. While our commercial collection line of business tends to be relatively recession resistant, we have experienced some volume declines in this business that we attribute to the sluggish economy.  

 Declines in revenue due to lower third-party volumes in our transfer station operations have been the most notable in our Eastern and Southern Groups and can generally be attributed to the effects of pricing and sluggish economic conditions. The declines in our revenues due to lower volumes in our recycling operations are attributable to the drastic decline in the demand for recyclables in late 2008, both domestically and internationally.  

 We have experienced declines in third-party revenue at our landfills due to reduced construction and demolition and municipal solid waste volumes throughout 2008, although the volume decline in our construction and demolition waste stream was at a slower rate than it had been in 2007 largely as a result of hurricane-related volume increases in our Southern Group. These volume declines have been offset, in part, by an increase in special waste disposal volumes, primarily in our Southern Group.  

 The decline in our revenues due to lower volumes when comparing 2007 with 2006 was driven by declines in our collection volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower transfer station and third-party disposal volumes. Decreases in 2007 revenue due to lower volumes are discussed in more detail below:  

 Collection volume declines significantly affected the revenues of each of our collection lines of business in each geographic operating Group, but they were the most significant in our industrial collection business due to the significant slowdown in residential construction across the United States.  

 30   
 In 2007, declines in revenue due to lower third-party volumes in our transfer station operations were the most notable in our Eastern Group and were generally due to the effects of pricing. We also experienced declines in third-party revenue at our landfills due to reduced disposal volumes. The most significant declines were in our construction and demolition waste, particularly in our Southern Group. The reduction in construction and demolition volumes was largely due to the significant slowdown in residential construction across the United States. The volume declines for our municipal solid waste disposal operations were the most significant in our Midwest Group due primarily to our focus on pricing increases.  

 Waste-to-energy and recycling revenues also declined in 2007 due to volume decreases. In our waste-to-energy business, the decrease was largely due to the termination of an operating and maintenance agreement in May 2007. The revenue decline due to lower third-party volumes in our recycling business was primarily attributable to the decreases in certain brokerage activities and the closure of a plastics processing facility.  

 Acquisitions and Divestitures — Revenues increased $117 million in 2008 and $37 million in 2007 due to acquisitions, principally in the collection, transfer and recycling businesses, although we also made acquisitions in 2008 in our “Other” business as we focus on entering new lines of business. Divestitures accounted for decreased revenues of $130 million in 2008 and $320 million in 2007. These divestitures were primarily comprised of collection operations and, to a lesser extent, transfer station and recycling operations. In the second, third and fourth quarters of 2008, revenue growth from acquisitions exceeded revenue declines from divestitures, a trend we had not seen in over two years. This change reflects (i) that there are less under-performing operations that are being considered for divestiture and (ii) the resulting shift of focus to accretive acquisitions.  

 Operating Expenses  

 Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs included below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are driven by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily the rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on asset retirement and environmental remediation obligations, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include workers’ compensation and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include, among other costs, equipment and facility rent and property taxes.  

 31   
 The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The changes in our operating expenses for 2008 and 2007 compared with the prior years can largely be attributed to the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 32   
    •   Union-related labor issues — Our 2008 operating expenses were significantly affected by a labor disruption associated with the renegotiation of a collective bargaining agreement in Milwaukee, Wisconsin and the related agreement of the bargaining unit to withdraw from the underfunded Central States Pension Fund, which is discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These activities increased the operating expenses of our Midwest Group by $32 million during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. Approximately $24 million of these costs have been included in the “Labor and related benefits” category, $21 million of which were associated with charges related to the bargaining unit agreeing to our proposal to withdraw them from the underfunded Central States Pension Fund. The remaining $8 million has been included in our “Other” category and was related to security and the deployment and lodging costs incurred for the Company’s replacement workers who were brought to Milwaukee from across the organization.    

 Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we incurred another $18 million in “Labor and related benefits” charges associated with the withdrawal of certain bargaining units in our Midwest and Eastern Groups from underfunded multi-employer pension plans.  

 In 2007, our Western Group incurred “Other” operating expenses of $33 million for security, labor, lodging, travel and other costs incurred as a result of labor disruptions in Oakland and Los Angeles, California.  

    •   Changes in risk-free interest rates — We recognized a $33 million charge to landfill operating costs during the fourth quarter of 2008 due to a sharp decline in United States Treasury rates, which are used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the discount rate used was reduced from 4.00% to 2.25%. During 2007, we recorded an $8 million charge to reduce the discount rate from 4.75% to 4.00% and during 2006 we recorded a $6 million decrease in expense to reflect an increase in the rate from 4.25% to 4.75%.    

 Many of the cost increases summarized above are due to general economic and market conditions over which we have little or no control. After considering the significant impacts of market-driven factors, we are encouraged that our results continue to reflect our focus on (i) identifying operational efficiencies that translate into cost savings; (ii) managing our fixed costs and reducing our variable costs as volumes decline due to our pricing program and the downturn in the economy; and (iii) reducing our costs in light of recent divestitures.  

 Other items affecting the comparability of our operating expenses by category for the three years presented include the following:  

 Labor and related benefits  

    •   In each year, wages increased due to annual merit adjustments, although these higher costs have been more than offset by headcount reductions due to operational efficiencies and divestitures.   

    •   We experienced additional overtime and other labor costs due to severe winter weather conditions during the first quarter of 2008 in our Midwest Group.   

    •   Our accrued bonus expenses were lower in 2008 because our performance against targets established by our incentive plans was not as strong as it had been in either 2007 or 2006.    

 Transfer and disposal costs  

    •   During 2008 and 2007, these costs decreased due to volume declines and divestitures.   

    •   During 2008 and 2007, these costs further decreased due to our focus on improving internalization.    

 Disposal and franchise fees and taxes  

    •   The favorable resolution of a disposal tax matter in our Eastern Group reduced these expenses by $18 million during 2007 and $3 million during 2008.    

 Landfill operating costs  

    •   In 2008, these costs included the unfavorable impact of the January 1, 2008 adoption of SFAS No. 157, which resulted in a $6 million charge.    

 33   
    •   During 2007, we recognized an $8 million charge for a revision in our estimate of remediation costs associated with one of our prior operations.    

 Risk management  

    •   Over the last three years, we have been successful in reducing these costs, which can be primarily attributed to our continued focus on safety and reduced accident and injury rates.   

    •   For 2008, the decrease in expense was largely associated with reduced actuarial projections of workers’ compensation costs and reduced auto and general liability claims for current claim periods.   

    •   For 2007, the decrease in expense was largely associated with reduced actuarial projections of auto and general liability claims and, to a lesser extent, reduced workers’ compensation costs, all primarily related to prior claim periods.    

 Other  

    •   In 2007, we incurred $21 million of lease termination costs associated with the purchase of one of our independent power production plants that had previously been operated through a lease agreement.   

    •   In 2008 and 2007, we had an increase in gains recognized on the sales of assets due to our focus on identifying under-utilized assets in order to increase our efficiency.    

 Selling, General and Administrative  

 Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

 The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 A significant portion of the $45 million increase in our “Selling, general and administrative” expenses in 2008 was as a result of our focus on business development initiatives, including gaining new customers and entering new lines of business. We estimate that these initiatives increased our expenses by nearly $19 million when comparing 2008 with 2007. Approximately $8 million of the $19 million increase is associated with increased consulting costs and has been included in “Professional fees.” The remaining cost increases can generally be attributed to increased headcount, advertising and travel and entertainment costs.  

 Other significant changes in our selling, general and administrative expenses during the reported periods are summarized below:  

 Labor and related benefits — The increases in 2008 and 2007 are primarily attributable to (i) higher salaries and hourly wages due to merit raises; (ii) higher compensation costs due to an increase in headcount driven by an increase in the size of our sales force and our focus on our people and business development initiatives; and (iii) higher non-cash compensation costs associated with the equity-based compensation provided for by our long-term incentive plans. In 2008, we also experienced higher insurance and benefit costs. These increases were  

 34   
 partially offset by lower bonus expenses accrued in 2008 because our performance against targets established by our incentive plan was not as strong as it had been in either 2007 or 2006.  

 Professional fees — We incurred significant costs in both 2008 and 2007 that are of a non-recurring nature. In 2008, we incurred over $7 million of legal and consulting costs to support our previously proposed acquisition of Republic Services, Inc. In 2007, our consulting fees were higher due to increased spending for various strategic initiatives, including the support and development of the SAP waste and recycling revenue management system, which we discontinued development of in early 2008. For information related to the current status of our pending litigation against SAP, refer to Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Provision for bad debts — The increase in our provision for bad debts in 2008 is due to the effects of the weakened economy, which has increased collection risks associated with certain customers.  

 Other — As discussed above, our continued focus on our sales, marketing and other initiatives and identifying new customers resulted in increases in our advertising costs and travel and entertainment costs in 2008. The comparability of these costs for the periods presented has also been affected by net charges of approximately $2 million in 2007 and $20 million in 2006 to record our estimated obligations for unclaimed property. Additionally, in both 2007 and 2006, our other costs increased due to higher sales and marketing costs and higher travel and entertainment costs due partially to the development of our revenue management system and our efforts to implement various initiatives.  

 Depreciation and Amortization  

 Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded due to capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction, asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the estimated remaining permitted and expansion capacity of a site; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event; and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, either using a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to ten years depending on the type of asset.  

 The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In both 2008 and 2007, the decrease in depreciation on tangible property and equipment is largely due to (i) components of enterprise-wide software becoming fully-depreciated; and (ii) our focus on identifying operational efficiencies as we shed unprofitable business, which has allowed us to retire or sell under-utilized assets.  

 The decrease in amortization of landfill airspace expense in 2008 and 2007 is largely due to volume declines as a result of (i) the slowdown in the economy; (ii) our pricing program, which has significantly reduced our collection volumes; and (iii) the redirection of waste to third-party disposal facilities in certain regions due to either the closure of our own landfills or the current capacity constraints of landfills where we are working on procuring an expansion permit. The comparability of our amortization of landfill airspace for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006 has also been affected by adjustments recorded in each year for changes in estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, landfill amortization expense was reduced by $3 million, $17 million and $1 million, respectively, for the effects of these  

 35   
 changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulting from the revised estimates was associated with final capping changes that were generally the result of (i) concerted efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our landfills and volume declines, both of which have allowed us to delay spending for final capping activities; (ii) landfill expansions that resulted in reduced or deferred final capping costs; or (iii) completed final capping construction that cost less than anticipated.  

 Restructuring  

 Management continuously reviews our organization to determine if we are operating under the most advantageous structure. As discussed in Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in February 2009 we announced that we were taking steps to streamline our organization by consolidating many of our Market Areas and realigning our Corporate support organization. In 2008, we recognized $2 million of restructuring expenses for the reorganization of customer service functions in our Western Group and the realignment of certain operations in our Southern Group. In the first quarter of 2007, we restructured certain operations and functions, resulting in the recognition of a charge of approximately $9 million. We incurred an additional $1 million of costs for this restructuring during the second quarter of 2007, increasing total costs incurred to $10 million. Approximately $7 million of the 2007 restructuring costs was incurred by our Corporate organization, $2 million was incurred by our Midwest Group and $1 million was incurred by our Western Group. These charges included approximately $8 million for employee severance and benefit costs and approximately $2 million related to operating lease agreements.  

 The most significant cost savings we have obtained through these restructurings have been attributable to the labor and related benefits component of our “Selling, general and administrative” expenses.  

 (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items  

 The following table summarizes the major components of “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items” for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (Income) expense from divestitures (including held-for-sale impairments) — The net gains from divestitures in all three years were a result of our fix-or-seek-exit initiative. In 2008, these gains were primarily related to the divestiture of underperforming collection operations in our Southern Group; in 2007, the gains were related to the divestiture of underperforming collection, transfer and recycling operations in our Eastern, Western, Southern and WMRA Groups; and in 2006, the gains were primarily related to the divestiture of underperforming collection operations in our Western Group. Gains recognized from divestitures in 2006 were partially offset by the recognition of aggregate impairment charges of $18 million, which were principally recognized by our Eastern Group, for business operations held for sale as required by SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  

 Impairments of assets held-for-use — During 2008, we recognized a $4 million impairment charge primarily as a result of a decision to close a landfill in our Southern Group. During 2007, we recognized $12 million in impairment charges due to impairments recognized for two landfills in our Southern Group. The impairments were necessary as a result of the re-evaluation of our business alternatives for one landfill and the expiration of a contract that we had expected would be renewed that had significantly contributed to the volumes for the second landfill. The $24 million of impairment charges recognized during 2006 was primarily related to the impairment of a landfill in our Eastern Group as a result of a change in our expectations for future expansions and the impairment of under-performing operations in our WMRA Group.  

 36   
 Other — In 2006, we recognized a $26 million charge for the impact of an arbitration ruling against us related to the termination of a joint venture relationship in 2000.  

 Income From Operations by Reportable Segment  

 The following table summarizes income from operations by reportable segment for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *    Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison.   

 Operating segments — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our geographic operating segments during the three-year period ended December 31, 2008, are (i) increased revenue from yield on base business as a result of our pricing strategies, particularly in our collection operations; (ii) declines in revenues due to lower volumes, which can be attributed to pricing competition, the significant downturn in construction and the slowdown of the general economy; and (iii) our continued focus on controlling costs through operating efficiencies. For the first nine months of 2008, our Groups also experienced an unfavorable effect on operating income of significantly higher fuel costs. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, fuel costs decreased significantly enough to reverse this trend, resulting in an immaterial impact to the full year. See additional discussion in the Operating Revenues section above.  

 Summarized below are the other significant items specific to each operating segment’s results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:  

 Eastern — The Group’s operating income for the year ended December 31, 2008 was negatively affected by a $14 million charge related to the withdrawal of certain collective bargaining units from underfunded multi-employer pension plans. This charge was offset, in part, by a reduction in landfill amortization expense as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. The Group’s operating income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was favorably affected by (i) net divestiture gains of $33 million; (ii) an $18 million decrease in disposal fees and taxes due to the favorable resolution of a disposal tax matter; and (iii) a reduction in landfill amortization expense as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. The Group’s operating income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was negatively affected by $26 million in impairment charges associated with (i) businesses being sold as part of our divestiture program; and (ii) a change in our expectations for future operations of a landfill. In 2006, the Group also incurred $14 million of strike-related costs incurred primarily in the New York City area.  

 Midwest — The Group’s 2008 operating results were negatively affected by $44 million of additional operating expenses primarily incurred as a result of a labor dispute in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Included in the labor dispute expenses is a $32 million charge related to the withdrawal of certain of the Group’s bargaining units from underfunded multi-employer pension plans. In addition, the Group experienced unfavorable weather conditions in the first quarter of 2008. Positively affecting operating results both in 2008 and in 2007  

 37   
 were divestiture gains of $4 million in 2008 and $1 million in 2007 and reductions in landfill amortization expense resulting from changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations.  

 Southern — During 2008, the increase in the Group’s operating income is largely due to $29 million of divestiture gains, offset, in part, by a $3 million landfill impairment charge. During 2007, the Group recorded $12 million of impairment charges attributable to two of its landfills. These charges were largely offset by gains on divestitures of $11 million.  

 Western — The Group’s 2008 operating results were negatively affected by an increase in landfill amortization expense as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. In 2007, labor disputes negatively affected the Group’s operating results by $37 million, principally as a result of “Operating” expenses incurred for security, deployment and lodging costs for replacement workers. Gains on divestitures of operations were $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared with $48 million for 2006.  

 Wheelabrator — The Group’s 2008 operating results were favorably affected by increases in market rates for energy during the second half of 2008. The decline in operating income for the year ended December 31, 2007 was driven by a $21 million charge recorded in the first quarter of 2007 for the early termination of a lease agreement. The early termination was due to the Group’s purchase of an independent power production plant that it had previously operated through a lease agreement. Additionally, the termination of an operating and maintenance agreement in May 2007 resulted in a decline in revenue and operating income compared with the prior year.  

 WMRA — During the first nine months of 2008 and throughout all of 2007, the Group’s operating income benefited from substantial increases in market prices for commodities. Also during these periods, the Group experienced income growth due to an increased focus on maintaining or reducing rebates made to suppliers. During the fourth quarter of 2008, however, commodity prices dropped sharply as a result of a significant decrease in the demand for commodities both domestically and internationally. This significant decline in commodity prices resulted in operating losses that more than offset the income generated during the first nine months of the year. Higher than normal operating expenses, including higher subcontractor, repair and maintenance, and facility start-up costs, also negatively affected the Group’s operating income throughout 2008. The comparison of the Group’s operating income for the periods presented has also been affected by (i) $7 million of net gains on divestitures in 2007 and (ii) the recognition in 2006 of $10 million of charges for a loss from a divestiture and an impairment of certain under-performing operations, which were slightly more than offset by savings associated with the Group’s cost control efforts.  

 Significant items affecting the comparability of the remaining components of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 are summarized below:  

 Other — The unfavorable change in operating results in 2008 when compared with 2007 is the result of costs being incurred to support our increased focus on the identification and development of new lines of business that will complement our core business. The unfavorable change in operating results in 2007 when compared with 2006 is largely related to (i) certain year-end adjustments recorded in consolidation related to our reportable segments that were not included in the measure of segment income from operations used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed; and (ii) the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity in April 2006.  

 Corporate and Other — The decline in expenses in 2008 as compared with 2007 was primarily due to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 38   
 The expense declines noted above were largely offset by the impacts of the following:  

    •   a $32 million charge to landfill operating costs for the closed landfills that are managed by our closed sites management group through our Corporate organization, due to a sharp decline in United States Treasury rates in late 2008, which caused an increase in the present value of our environmental remediation obligations; and    

 • costs incurred for the potential acquisition of Republic during the third quarter of 2008.  

 The decline in expenses when comparing 2007 with 2006 was primarily due to:  

 • significantly lower risk management costs largely due to our focus on safety and controlling costs;  

    •   a reduction in expenses from the discontinuation of depreciation for certain enterprise-wide software; and   

    •   a $20 million charge recorded in 2006 to recognize unrecorded obligations associated with unclaimed property.    

 The expense declines noted above were offset, in part, by the impacts of the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Other Components of Net Income  

 The following table summarizes the other major components of our income for the year ended December 31 for each respective period (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *    Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison. Refer to the explanations of these items below for a discussion of the relationship between current year and prior year activity.   

 Interest Expense  

 Although our outstanding debt balances are relatively consistent year-over-year, the decline in interest costs when comparing 2008 with 2007 is generally related to (i) the maturity of higher rate debt that we have refinanced at lower interest rates; (ii) significant declines in market interest rates, which impact the interest expense associated with our interest rate swaps and our variable rate debt; and (iii) the early redemption of $244 million of 8.75% senior notes during the second quarter of 2008, which resulted in the recognition of a reduction in interest expense of approximately $10 million for the immediate recognition of fair value adjustments associated with terminated interest rate swaps that had been deferred and were being amortized over the life of the debt. The decrease in interest expense when comparing 2007 with 2006 is largely related to a decrease in our average debt balances.  

 We use interest rate derivative contracts to manage our exposure to changes in market interest rates. The combined impact of active and terminated interest rate swap agreements resulted in a net interest expense decrease of $50 million for 2008 and net interest expense increases of $11 million for 2007 and $4 million for 2006. Our active interest rate swaps decreased our interest expense in 2008 by $8 million compared with an increase in interest expense in 2007 from active hedges of $48 million. The significant change in the impact of our active interest rate swaps when comparing 2008 with 2007 has been driven by the decrease in short-term market interest rates, which  

 39   
 drive our periodic interest obligations under our active swap agreements. Our periodic interest obligations under these agreements are based on a spread from the three-month LIBOR, which was as low as 1.43% in late 2008 and as high as 5.62% in the second half of 2007. In 2008, the year-over-year change in the impact of interest rate swaps is also due to our terminated swaps, which caused a $42 million reduction in interest expense in 2008 compared with a $37 million reduction in interest expense in 2007. Our terminated interest rate swaps are expected to reduce interest expense by $18 million in 2009, $11 million in 2010, and $5 million in 2011.  

 Interest Income  

 When comparing 2008 with 2007, the decrease in interest income is primarily due to (i) significant declines in market interest rates; (ii) the recognition of $7 million in interest income during the first quarter of 2007 for the favorable resolution of a disposal tax matter in our Eastern Group; and (iii) a decrease in our average cash and investment balances. When comparing 2007 with 2006, the decrease in interest income is primarily due to (i) a decrease in our average cash and investment balances; and (ii) $14 million of interest income realized in 2006 on tax refunds received from the IRS for the settlement of several federal audits.  

 Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

 During the reported periods, our “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” was primarily related to our equity interests in two coal-based synthetic fuel production facilities. The equity losses generated by the facilities were offset by the tax benefit realized as a result of these investments as discussed below within Provision for income taxes.  

 Our equity in the losses of these facilities was $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $42 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $41 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The significant decline in these losses in 2008 as compared with the prior year periods is due to the expiration of our investments at the end of 2007. The comparability of the losses incurred in 2007 and 2006 is primarily affected by (i) the impact of the partial phase-out of Section 45K credits during each year on our contractual obligations associated with funding the facilities’ losses; (ii) the temporary suspension of operations at the facilities in 2006; and (iii) the recognition of a cumulative adjustment necessary to appropriately reflect our life-to-date obligations to fund the costs of operating the facilities and the value of our investment, which was recognized in 2006. Refer to Note 8 for additional information related to the impact of these investments.  

 Minority Interest  

 On December 31, 2003, we consolidated two limited liability companies that own three waste-to-energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator Group as a result of our implementation of FIN 46(R). Our minority interest expense for 2008, 2007 and 2006 is primarily related to the other members’ equity interest in the earnings of these entities. Additional information related to these investments is included in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Provision for Income Taxes  

 We recorded a provision for income taxes of $669 million in 2008, $540 million in 2007 and $325 million in 2006. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 38.1%, 31.7% and 22.1% for each of the three years, respectively. At current income levels, we expect that our 2009 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 40%. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is primarily affected by (i) increases in our income before taxes; (ii) differences in the impacts of tax audit settlements; and (iii) the impact of non-conventional fuel tax credits, which expired at the end of 2007. The impacts of tax audit settlements and non-conventional fuel tax credits, which are the items that had the most significant impacts on the comparability of our effective tax rate during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, are summarized below:  

    •   Tax audit settlements — When excluding the effect of interest income, the settlement of various tax audits resulted in a reduction in income tax expense of $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 (representing a 1.5 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate), $40 million for the year ended    

 40   
      December 31, 2007 (representing a 2.3 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate) and $149 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 (representing a 10.1 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate).    

    •   Non-conventional fuel tax credits — Through December 31, 2007, non-conventional fuel tax credits were derived from our landfills and our investments in the two coal-based, synthetic fuel production facilities discussed in the Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities section above. Pursuant to Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code, these tax credits were phased-out if the price of oil exceeded an annual average as determined by the IRS. Based on an estimated phase-out of 69% of Section 45K tax credits generated during 2007, our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007 included $50 million of non-conventional fuel tax credits. These tax credits resulted in a 2.9 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007. In April 2008, the IRS published the phase-out percentage that must be applied to Section 45K tax credits generated in 2007, which was 67.2%. Our provision for income taxes for the first quarter of 2008 included an adjustment of our 2007 year-end estimate to the final 2007 phase-out, which resulted in the recognition of a $3 million benefit. Our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2006 included $71 million of non-conventional fuel tax credits, resulting in a 4.8 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate. Non-conventional fuel tax credits expired at the end of 2007 pursuant to Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code.    

 Other items that have affected our reported income taxes during the reported periods include the following:  

    •   Canadian tax rate changes and the related revaluation of deferred tax balances resulted in a $30 million tax benefit during 2007 compared with a $20 million tax benefit in 2006. We did not have any comparable adjustments during the year ended December 31, 2008.   

    •   We recorded reductions to income tax expense of $8 million in 2008, $9 million in 2007 and $20 million in 2006 due to state-related tax items. These impacts were generally due to either (i) the revaluation of net accumulated deferred tax liabilities as a result of a decrease in our effective state tax rate or (ii) the expected utilization of state net operating loss and credit carryforwards.    

 Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

 We owned or operated 267 solid waste and six hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2008 and we owned or operated 271 solid waste and six hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the expected remaining capacity in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills is shown below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2008 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 32 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 42 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 39 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.  

 41   
 The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2008, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    From an operating perspective, landfills we operate through lease agreements are similar to landfills we own because we own the landfill’s operating permit and will operate the landfill for the entire lease term, which in many cases is the life of the landfill. We are usually responsible for the closure and post-closure obligations of the landfills we lease.  

  (b)    For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. The property owner is generally responsible for closure and post-closure obligations under our operating contracts.   

 The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impact of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted; and (iv) decreases due to our decision to no longer pursue an expansion permit.  

  (b)    We received expansion permits at 28 of our landfills during 2008 and 17 of our landfills during 2007, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills.  

  (c)    Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate; and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.   

 42   
 The tons received at our landfills in 2008 and 2007 are shown below (in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 When a landfill we own or operate (i) reaches its permitted waste capacity; (ii) is permanently capped; and (iii) receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, management of the site, including remediation activities, is generally transferred to our closed sites management group. In addition to the 273 active landfills we managed at December 31, 2008, we managed 195 closed landfills.  

 Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to make a landfill ready to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

 The following table reflects the total cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2008 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 As of December 31, 2008, we estimate that we will spend approximately $500 million in 2009, and approximately $1 billion in 2010 and 2011 combined for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

 43   
 Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations and its Interpretations, and are discussed in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

 The following table reflects our landfill liabilities and our environmental remediation liabilities as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2008 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    The significant increase in our environmental remediation liabilities for revisions in cost estimates and interest rate assumptions is largely related to the decline in the risk-free discount rate used to estimate the present value of the obligations. The impact of this revision in estimate is discussed further below.   

 Landfill Costs and Expenses — As disclosed in the Operating Expenses section above, our landfill operating costs include interest accretion on asset retirement obligations, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs, and other landfill site costs. The following table summarizes these costs for each of the three years indicated (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The increase in these costs in 2008 can largely be attributed to a significant decline in the risk-free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities, which is based on the rate for United States Treasury bonds with a term approximating the weighted-average period until settlement of the underlying obligations. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded a $33 million charge to “Operating” expenses, offset in part by a $6 million reduction in “Minority interest” expense, to reduce the discount rate from 4.00% to 2.25%. We recorded an $8 million charge to “Operating” expenses during the fourth quarter of 2007 to reduce the discount rate from 4.75% to 4.00% and a $6 million decrease in “Operating” expenses during the fourth quarter of 2006 to increase the discount rate from 4.25% to 4.75%. Additionally, in 2008, our leachate collection costs were higher in our Eastern Group and Midwest Group due to increased precipitation and operational changes in these regions.  

 44   
 Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of “Depreciation and amortization” expense, includes the following:  

    •   the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and   

    •   the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs.    

 Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life, and are, therefore, amortized on a per ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Final capping asset retirement costs are attributed to a specific final capping event, and are, therefore, amortized on a per ton basis using each discrete capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per ton amortization rates.  

 The following table calculates our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per ton basis:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Different per ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 273 landfills, and per ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to the next due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities; and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes received across the Company year-over-year. The comparability of our total Company average landfill airspace amortization expense per ton for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 has also been affected by the recognition of reductions to amortization expense for changes in our estimates related to our final capping, closure and post-closure obligations. Landfill amortization expense was reduced by $3 million in 2008, $17 million in 2007 and $1 million in 2006, for the effects of these changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulted from revisions in the estimated timing or cost of final capping events that were generally the result of (i) concerted efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our landfills and volume declines, both of which have allowed us to delay spending for final capping activities; (ii) landfill expansions that resulted in reduced or deferred final capping costs; or (iii) completed final capping construction that cost less than anticipated.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at waste-to-energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; and (vi) repaying debt and discharging other obligations. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through our capital allocation program that provides for dividend payments, share repurchases and investments in acquisitions that we believe will be accretive and provide continued growth in our business.  

 45   
 Summary of Cash, Short-Term Investments, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

 The following is a summary of our cash, short-term investments available for use, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash and cash equivalents — Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit and money market funds that invest in United States government obligations, all of which have original maturities of three months or less.  

 Restricted trust and escrow accounts — Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of funds held in trust for the construction of various facilities or repayment of our debt obligations, funds deposited for purposes of settling landfill closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations and insurance escrow deposits. These balances are primarily included within long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion.  

 Debt — We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2008 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008 can primarily be attributed to (i) net debt repayments of $260 million; (ii) non-cash proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings, net of principal payments made directly from trust funds of $169 million; (iii) a $78 million increase in the carrying value of our debt due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps; and (iv) the impacts of accounting for other non-cash changes in our balances due to foreign currency translation, interest and capital leases.  

 We have approximately $1.2 billion of scheduled debt maturities during the next twelve months. We have classified approximately $509 million of these borrowings as long-term as of December 31, 2008 based on our intent and ability to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis.  

 46   
 We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions) at December 31 categorized by facility:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    WMI’s $2.4 billion revolving credit facility matures in August 2011. At December 31, 2008, $1,803 million of letters of credit and $300 million of borrowings were outstanding under the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $297 million. The increase in our utilization of this facility during 2008 is due to the expiration of our $350 million letter of credit facility in December 2008.  

  (b)    This $350 million letter of credit facility expired in December 2008, and the letters of credit that had previously been supported by this facility were issued under the revolving credit facility.  

  (c)    At December 31, 2008, we have a $175 million letter of credit and term loan agreement that expires in June 2010 and a $105 million letter of credit and term loan agreement that expires in June 2013. At December 31, 2008, no borrowings were outstanding under these agreements, and we had $8 million of unused and available capacity. At December 31, 2007, we also had a $15 million letter of credit and term loan agreement that expired in June 2008.  

  (d)    These letters of credit are outstanding under various arrangements that do not provide for a committed credit capacity.   

 Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

 The following is a summary of our cash flows for the year ended December 31 for each respective period (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2008 and 2007 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 47   
      2007 effective tax rates is discussed in the Provision for income taxes section above. In addition, the overpayment of income taxes in 2006 reduced our 2007 tax payments.    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2007 and 2006 are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Net Cash Used in Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 48   
      decrease in proceeds from divestitures in 2008 was largely a result of having fewer underperforming operations to sell as part of our fix-or-seek-exit initiative.    

    •   Capital expenditures — We used $1,221 million during 2008 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,211 million in 2007 and $1,329 million in 2006. Capital expenditures in 2006 were higher than either 2007 or 2008 due to relatively high levels of fleet capital spending done in advance of significant mandated changes in heavy-duty truck engines beginning in January 2007.   

    •   Purchases and sales of short-term investments — Net sales of short-term investments provided $184 million of cash in 2007, compared with $122 million during 2006. We used proceeds from the sale of our short-term investments to provide cash that we used to fund our common stock repurchases, dividend payments and debt repayments, which are discussed below. We did not hold any short-term investments during 2008.   

    •   Net receipts from restricted funds — Net funds received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are largely generated from the issuance of tax-exempt bonds for our capital needs, contributed $178 million to our investing activities in 2008 compared with $120 million in 2007 and $253 million in 2006.    

 Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

    •   Share repurchases and dividend payments — Our 2008, 2007 and 2006 share repurchases and dividend payments have been made in accordance with capital allocation programs approved by our Board of Directors.    

 We paid $410 million for share repurchases in 2008 as compared with $1,421 million in 2007 and $1,072 million in 2006. We repurchased approximately 12 million, 40 million and 31 million shares of our common stock in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The significant decline in share repurchases during 2008 is largely attributable to the suspension of our share repurchases in connection with our proposal to acquire all of the outstanding stock of Republic Services, Inc. When the proposal was withdrawn in October 2008, we determined that, given the state of the financial markets, it would be prudent to suspend repurchases for the foreseeable future.  

 We paid an aggregate of $531 million in cash dividends during 2008 compared with $495 million in 2007 and $476 million in 2006. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.22 in 2006, to $0.24 in 2007 and to $0.27 in 2008. The impact of the year-over-year increases in the per share dividend has been partially offset by a reduction in the number of our outstanding shares as a result of our share repurchase program.  

 In December 2008, our Board of Directors approved a new capital allocation program that includes the authorization for up to $1.3 billion in combined cash dividends, common stock repurchases, debt reduction and acquisitions in 2009. At this time, the Board of Directors also announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments will be $0.29 per share. All future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future prospects and other factors the Board may deem relevant.  

    •   Proceeds and tax benefits from the exercise of options and warrants — The exercise of common stock options and warrants and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $44 million of financing cash inflows during 2008 compared with $168 million during 2007 and $340 million in 2006. We believe the relatively large impact of stock option and warrant exercises in 2006 was due to the substantial increase in the market value of our common stock during 2006 and the accelerated vesting of all outstanding stock options in December 2005 because the acceleration made additional options available for exercise.    

 49   
    •   Net debt repayments — Net debt repayments were $260 million in 2008, $256 million in 2007 and $500 million in 2006. The following summarizes our most significant cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions):    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 This summary excludes the impacts of non-cash borrowings and debt repayments. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, these non-cash financing activities were primarily associated with our tax-exempt bond financings. Proceeds from tax-exempt bond issuances, net of principal repayments made directly from trust funds, were $169 million in 2008, $144 million in 2007 and $157 million in 2006.  

    •   Accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances — Changes in our accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances are reflected as “Other” financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There are significant changes in these accrued liability balances as of each year-end, which is generally attributable to the timing of cash deposits.    

 Summary of Contractual Obligations  

 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 50   
  (a)    Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

  (b)    Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2008 include $347 million of fixed rate tax-exempt bonds and $40 million of tax-exempt project bonds subject to repricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  (c)    Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods. In addition, $35 million of our future debt payments and related interest obligations will be made with debt service funds held in trust and included as long-term “Other assets” within our December 31, 2008 Consolidated Balance Sheet.  

  (d)    Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

  (e)    Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For these contracts, we have estimated our future obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. This approach has resulted in a significant decline in our reported contractual obligations associated with our waste paper purchase agreements due to the sharp decline in commodity prices late in 2008. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table will not be indicative of our actual cash flow obligations associated with these contracts should the market prices for the recyclable commodities recover. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.   

 We have contingencies that are not considered reasonably likely. As a result, the impact of these contingencies has not been included in the above table. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these contingencies.  

 Liquidity Impacts of Uncertain Tax Positions  

 As discussed in Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long-term “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 We are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our third-party guarantee arrangements are generally established to support our financial assurance needs and landfill operations. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2008 nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 51   
 Seasonal Trends and Inflation  

 Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes generally experienced by our Southern Group, can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. However, for several reasons, including significant start-up costs, such revenue often generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. The operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities.  

 While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of fuel, have affected our operating margins in recent periods, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

 New Accounting Pronouncements  

 SFAS No. 157 — Fair Value Measurements  

 In February 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position FAS 157-2, Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157, which delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157 for all non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities, except those that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2008, we have not applied the provisions of SFAS No. 157 to our asset retirement obligations, which are accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 143. FSP FAS 157-2 establishes January 1, 2009 as the effective date of SFAS No. 157 with respect to these fair value measurements for the Company. We do not currently expect the application of the fair value framework established by SFAS No. 157 to non-financial assets and liabilities measured on a non-recurring basis to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. However, we will continue to assess the potential effects of SFAS No. 157 as additional guidance becomes available.  

 SFAS No. 141(R) — Business Combinations  

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations, which establishes principles for how the acquirer recognizes and measures in the financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. This statement also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring the goodwill acquired in the business combination and determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009. The portions of the statement that relate to business combinations completed before the effective date will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. However, our adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will significantly impact our accounting and reporting for future acquisitions, principally as a result of (i) expanded requirements to value acquired assets, liabilities and contingencies at their fair values; and (ii) the requirement that acquisition-related transaction and restructuring costs be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized as a part of the cost of the acquisition.  

 SFAS No. 160 — Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51  

 In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements — an amendment of ARB No. 51, which establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It states that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. SFAS No. 160 will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2009 and must be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which must be applied  

 52   
 retrospectively for all periods presented. The adoption of SFAS No. 160 will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. However, it could impact our accounting for future transactions.  

  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.