Item 1A.    Risk Factors.    

 In an effort to keep our shareholders and the public informed about our business, we may make “forward-looking statements.” Forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. Forward-looking statements generally include statements containing:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 You should view these statements with caution. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. They are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. All phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. Any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. Additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. The following discussion should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto. Outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2009 and beyond.  

 General economic conditions can adversely affect our revenues and our operating margins.  

 Our business is affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. Although our services are of an essential nature, a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. Additionally, consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers and our ability to increase customers’ pricing. During weak economic conditions we may also be adversely impacted by customers’ inability to pay us in a timely manner, if at all, due to their financial difficulties, which could include bankruptcies. The availability of credit in the second half of 2008 was severely limited, which negatively affected business and consumer spending generally. If our customers do not have access to capital, we do not expect that our volumes will improve or that we will increase new business.  

 We have $2.8 billion of debt as of December 31, 2008 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates because of the combined impact of our variable rate tax-exempt bonds and our interest rate swap agreements. Therefore, any increase in interest rates can significantly increase our interest expenses. Additionally, the unavailability of credit on favorable terms can adversely impact our growth, development and capital spending plans.  

 The waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected.  

 We encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. In North America, the industry consists of two national waste management companies, regional companies and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources. We compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. These counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. Also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage.  

 In addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts. When this happens, we may roll-back prices or offer lower pricing to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business.  

 11   
 If we do not successfully manage our costs, or do not successfully implement our plans and strategies to improve margins, our income from operations could be lower than expected.  

 In recent years, we have implemented several profit improvement initiatives aimed at lowering our costs and enhancing our revenues.  

 We have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we have continued our fuel surcharge program, all of which have increased our internal revenue growth. The loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. We continue to seek to divest under-performing and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. We may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of under-performing and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. Additionally, in February 2009 we announced that we had taken steps to realign our field operations to combine several of our Market Areas in an effort to achieve greater economies of scale in our local and regional operations and our Corporate organization to provide support functions more efficiently. If we are not able to fully or successfully implement our plans and strategies for any reason, many of which are out of our control, we may not see the expected improvements in our income from operations or our operating margins.  

 The seasonal nature of our business causes our quarterly results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results.  

 Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes generally experienced by our Southern Group, actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. However, for several reasons, including significant start-up costs, such revenue often generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. The operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities.  

 For these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period.  

 We cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety laws, and cannot guarantee that they will not be material.  

 We could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. Under current law, we could even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. Also, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and under applicable law we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. Any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 In the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, and may in the future, become involved in a variety of legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. These include proceedings in which:  

    •   agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and    

 12   
    •   local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage.    

 We generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. If we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments.  

 The waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures.  

 Stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the United States and Canada have a substantial impact on our business. A large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. Among other things, they may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as:  

    •   limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities or expanding existing facilities;   

    •   limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes;   

    •   limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; or   

    •   mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste, including requirements to recycle rather than landfill certain waste streams.    

 Regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. Future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. The costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial.  

 In order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. The permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations.  

 Governmental authorities may enact climate change regulations that could increase our costs to operate.  

 Environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the United States have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely affect our collection and disposal operations. Additionally, certain of the states in which we operate are contemplating air pollution control regulations that are more stringent than existing and proposed federal regulations. Changing environmental regulations could require us to take any number of actions, including the purchase of emission allowances or installation of additional pollution control technology, and could make some operations less profitable, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  

 Significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses.  

 The price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. We have seen average quarterly fuel prices increase by as much as 56% on a year-over-year basis and decrease by as much as 9% on a year-over-year basis within the last two years. We need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations. Supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. Additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses  

 13   
 increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. We have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers’ contracts prohibit any pass through of the increased costs. We may initiate other programs or means to guard against the rising costs of fuel, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so or that such programs will be successful. Regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, the increased operating costs will decrease our operating margins.  

 We have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities.  

 The amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. We believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide, and therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily required levels. We face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. We also carry a broad range of insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. We use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. The inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. To the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results.  

 In addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to environmental closure and post-closure obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon WMI financial guarantees. We currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. We do not anticipate any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining financial assurance instruments in the future, although general economic factors may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments. Additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. It is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. Other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due.  

 We may record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets.  

 In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. Events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. If we determine a development or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. We also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. The recent downturn in the recycling commodities market could potentially cause the carrying value of WMRA’s assets to be lower than their fair value, resulting in an impairment to goodwill.  

 We may be required to incur charges against earnings if we determine that events such as those described cause impairments. Any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  

 Our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices.  

 Our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. The majority of the recyclables that we process for  

 14   
 sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard, known as OCC, and old newsprint, or ONP. The fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities can affect our operating income and cash flows, as we experienced in 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the monthly market prices for OCC and ONP fell by 79% and 72%, respectively, from their high points within the year. The decline in market prices for commodities resulted in a fourth quarter 2008 year-over-year decrease in revenue of almost $100 million. Additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers. Therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase and in some circumstances, the rebates may have floors even as market prices decrease, which could eliminate any expected profit margins.  

 Additionally, there may be significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations. The marketing and sales of energy related products by our landfill gas and waste-to-energy operations are generally pursuant to long-term sales agreements. Therefore, market volatility does not cause our quarterly results to fluctuate significantly. However, as longer-term agreements expire and are up for renewal, or as market prices remain at lower levels for sustained periods, our revenues will be adversely affected. Additionally, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. In the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly electricity prices have ranged from increases of as much as 26% to decreases of as much as 5%.  

 The development and acceptance of alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity.  

 Our customers are increasingly using alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting. In addition, some state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. Although such mandates are a useful tool to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services.  

 Our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions.  

 Labor unions constantly make attempts to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. Certain groups of our employees have already chosen to be represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with some of the groups. Additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. Considerable attention has been focused on proposed legislation that could amend the National Labor Relations Act that would make it easier for unions to become recognized as the bargaining representative for employees. Depending on the form of legislation, if any, that is ultimately enacted, it is reasonably possible that our operating expenses would increase as a result of the provisions of such legislation. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, or future legislation requires us to submit the terms of employment to binding arbitration in the event an agreement cannot be reached in a timely manner, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes, or unfavorable terms in agreements that result from arbitration. Any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  

 Currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements.  

 We are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. The timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. Additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity.  

 15   
 We are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected.  

 We may experience problems with either the operation of our current information technology systems or the development and deployment of new information technology systems that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. We encountered problems with the revenue management application that we had been piloting throughout 2007, resulting in the termination of the pilot, which has impeded our ability to realize improved operating margins as a result of a new system. Inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. There can be no assurances that our issues related to the licensed application will not ultimately result in an impairment charge, which could be material.  

 Additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.  

 We may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations.  

 Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods.  

 Unforeseen circumstances could result in a need for additional capital.  

 We currently expect to meet our anticipated cash needs for capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments, acquisitions and other cash expenditures with our cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary and available, additional financings. However, materially adverse events, including recent economic conditions, may reduce our cash flows from operations. Our Board of Directors has approved a capital allocation program for 2009 that provides for up to $1.3 billion in aggregate dividend payments, share repurchases, acquisitions and debt reductions. In December 2008, we announced that we expect future quarterly dividend payments, when declared by the Board of Directors, to be $0.29 per share. If the impact on our cash flows from operations is significant, we may need to reduce capital expenditures, acquisition activity or dividend declarations unless we are able to incur indebtedness to either pay for these activities or refinance our scheduled debt maturities. In light of the recent state of the credit markets, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain additional financings on acceptable terms. In these circumstances, we would likely use our revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. As of December 31, 2008, we had $297 million of capacity under our revolving credit facility.  

 In the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. Additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. Any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate.  

  Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.    

 None.  

  Item 2.    Properties.