Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.    

 In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. As of December 31, 2008, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. However, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance.  

 We have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. These analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. The effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by the sensitivity analyses. Fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements.  

 Interest Rate Exposure. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. As of December 31, 2008, 33% of our total debt is at variable interest rates, compared with 34% at December 31, 2007. An instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $595 million at December 31, 2008 and $445 million at December 31, 2007. As disclosed in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, there have not been any material changes in the amount or type of debt or derivatives outstanding since December 31, 2007; nor has there been a material change in the extent of our exposure to variability in interest rates. Accordingly, the significant increase when comparing the effect of the one percentage point increase at December 31, 2008 with December 31, 2007 can be attributed to a substantial decline in risk-free interest rates, which are used in the discounted cash flow analysis performed to support this disclosure. This analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on items other than our outstanding debt and interest rate derivatives, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest.  

 We are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have $381 million and $418 million of assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts primarily included within long-term “Other assets” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post-closure and environmental remediation activities at our disposal facilities and are, therefore, invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and U.S. government agency debt securities. Because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant.  

 Currency Rate Exposure. From time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany Canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. Our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. In addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the Company.  

 53   

  Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.