PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

“Newell Brands” or the “Company” refers to Newell Brands Inc. (formerly, Newell Rubbermaid Inc.) alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we,” “us” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. The Company was founded in Ogdensburg, New York in 1903 and is incorporated in Delaware. The Company’s principal executive office is located at 221 River Street, Hoboken, New Jersey 07030, and the Company’s telephone number is 201-610-6600.  

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports  

The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellbrands.com. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K.  

GENERAL  

Newell Brands is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that help people make life better every day, where they live, learn, work and play. Our products are marketed under a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Paper Mate®, Sharpie®, Dymo®, EXPO®, Parker®, Elmer’s®, Coleman®, Jostens®, Marmot®, Rawlings®, Oster®, Sunbeam®, FoodSaver®, Mr. Coffee®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Graco®, Baby Jogger®, NUK®, Calphalon®, Rubbermaid®, Contigo®, First Alert®, Waddington and Yankee Candle®. The Company sells its products in nearly 200 countries around the world and has operations on the ground in nearly 100 of these countries.  

During 2017, the Company continued to execute the Growth Game Plan, the multi-year strategy that was updated in late 2016 for the new broader portfolio. The Growth Game Plan enables the simplification of the organization and frees up resources to invest in growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities in support of the Company’s brands. The changes being implemented in the execution of the Growth Game Plan are considered key enablers to building a more profitable and cash flow generative company, with global reach.  

As part of the Growth Game Plan, the Company has transformed from a holding company to an operating company, consolidating its 32 business units into 16 global divisions while investing to extend its design, innovation, brand development and E-commerce capabilities across a broader set of categories. The new global divisions are the key commercial nodes in the Company, including a Global E-commerce division with responsibility for all E-commerce activity across the enterprise. The divisions generally align to the four areas of strategic focus for the Company of Live, Learn, Work, and Play. The new structure became effective January 1, 2017.  

During 2017, the Company acquired Smith Mountain, a leading provider of premium home fragrance products, sold primarily under the WoodWick® Candle brand; Sistema Plastics, a leading provider of food storage and beverage containers in Australia, New Zealand, U.K, and parts of Europe; and Chesapeake Bay Candle, a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of premium candles and other home fragrance products, focused on consumer wellness and natural fragrance.  

During 2016, the Company committed to plans to divest several other businesses and brands to strengthen the portfolio to better align and focus the portfolio for growth and margin development. To that end, during 2017 the Company sold its Tools business, its Rubbermaid® consumer storage totes business, its stroller business under the Teutonia® brand, its Lehigh business, its firebuilding business, its triathlon apparel business under the Zoot® and Squadra® brands and its Winter Sports business.  

In January 2018, Newell Brands announced that it will explore a series of strategic initiatives to accelerate its transformation plan, improve operational performance, reduce debt and leverage and enhance shareholder value. The Company is planning on focusing its portfolio on core consumer divisions. The Company is exploring strategic options for industrial and commercial product assets, including Waddington, Process Solutions, Rubbermaid Commercial Products and Mapa, as well as several smaller consumer businesses, including Rawlings, Goody, Rubbermaid Outdoor, Closet, Refuse and Garage, and U.S. Playing Cards. The accelerated transformation plan would significantly reduce operational and systems complexity, exposure to economic cycles and resin commodities and focus the Company’s remaining portfolio on leading brands in global consumer-facing categories that can leverage Newell Brands’ advantaged capabilities in brands, innovation, design and E-commerce.  

3  

Table of Contents 

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES  

Newell Brands is committed to building leading brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer superior performance and value. The Company intends to continue to leverage its portfolio of leading brands to create a margin structure that allows for further increases in brand investment.  

During 2016, the Company launched the Growth Game Plan, which is its strategy to simplify the organization and free up resources to invest in growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities in support of the Company’s brands. The changes being implemented in the execution of the Growth Game Plan are considered key enablers to building a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable company.  

The Growth Game Plan encompasses the following strategic elements:  

The Newell Brands Vision  

The Newell Brands vision for the Company is grounded in three core characteristics of the business: its geographic reach with sales in nearly 200 countries and territories, its presence in a broad set of large growing household product categories, and its portfolio of leading brands that make a difference in the lives of consumers every day. The Company asserts that it impacts lives through the broad geographic reach of its business system, through its category presence and leading brands that touch consumers at home, in school, at work, and where they play. The Company’s vision is that Newell Brands makes life better for hundreds of millions of consumers every day, where they live, learn, work, and play.  

The Newell Brands DNA and Ambition  

The Newell Brands DNA represents an aspirational set of behaviors that define the culture the company aspires to create. The Newell Brands DNA and Ambition serve as a call to action for the Company’s employees, challenging them to grow, transform, lead, and win. The Company captures our ambition with our employees as follows:  

We believe growth and scale benefits drive value creation and we achieve our potential by putting the consumer first in everything that we do. Our portfolio is a powerful collection of leading brands in large, growing, unconsolidated global categories. Over time we are choice-fully building a more international business that reaches the consumer wherever they want to buy our brands. Our strategy is designed to achieve meaningful relative market share advantage in our core categories. We will win by combining Brand Development (insights, product design, innovation, brand communication) with Every Day Great Execution, partnering with our customers to build our categories and maximize reach, availability, and visibility. We are a transformative company in the stretching ambitions we pursue. The clarity of our strategy and the decisive way that we put our choices into action is a distinctive characteristic of our leaders. Money flows to growth and we are true to our entrepreneurial roots by focusing on impact in the market place. This process creates growth missions for our empowered teams. We build our people as we build new business. We expect our people and our ideas to be judged as leaders in our business community. Our brands are better together. We win by acting as one operating company that has the scale and capabilities to outgrow, out execute, and out spend our competition. Our strong financial foundation of cash generation creates a platform for scaling this model through strategic M&A in our core categories.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Organizational Structure  

Newell Brands makes life better for hundreds of millions of consumers every day, where they live, learn, work, and play. The Company achieves this impact through its leading portfolio of brands, its commitment to further strengthen those brands, and by deploying its brands to new markets around the world. In order to align reporting with the Company’s Growth Game Plan strategy and organization structure, effective January 1, 2017, Newell Brands is reporting its financial results in five segments as Live, Learn, Work, Play and Other. All prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current reporting structure. For financial information about segments, please see the information provided in Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which is incorporated by reference herein.  

The Company’s reportable segments are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Live  

The Live segment manufactures or sources, markets and distributes a diverse line of household products. Kitchen appliances and home environment products are primarily sold under the Crock-Pot®, FoodSaver®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster®, Sistema® and Sunbeam® trademarks. Aluminum and stainless steel cookware and bakeware are sold under the Calphalon® trademark. The Live segment also has rights to sell various small appliance products, in substantially all of Europe under the Breville® brand name. Home fragrance products are primarily sold under the Chesapeake Bay Candle®, WoodWick® and Yankee Candle® trademark. Baby gear and infant care and health products are sold under the Baby Jogger®, Graco®, NUK® and Tigex® trademarks. Home storage products are sold under the Sistema® and Rubbermaid® trademark. The Live segment also utilizes an extensive licensing strategy to extend the reach of the brands across categories, geographies and strategic product extensions.  

The Live segment primarily markets its products directly to club, department store, drug/grocery, mass merchant, specialty retailers and distributors, as well as our Yankee Candle retail stores.  

Learn  

The Company’s Learn segment includes the Writing and Fine Writing businesses, which have market share growth potential by further building strong brands like Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, and Expo® and deploying the portfolio into new geographies. The Elmer’s®, Labeling and Fine Writing businesses focus investment on innovation and brand support in existing markets. The Writing business designs, manufactures or sources and distributes writing instruments, adhesives, cutting products and labeling solutions, primarily for use in business and the home. The Segment’s largest writing instrument factory is based in the U.S.A (Tennessee). Permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters and art supplies are primarily sold under the Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Prismacolor® and Mr. Sketch® trademarks. Ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction supplies are primarily sold under the Paper Mate®, InkJoy®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America and certain areas in Latin America), Sharpie®, Mongol® and Liquid Paper® trademarks. Activity-based adhesives and cutting products are primarily sold under the Elmer’s®, Krazy Glue® (a trademark of Toagosei Co. Ltd. used with permission) and X-Acto® trademarks. Fine writing instruments are primarily sold under the Parker®, Waterman® and Rotring® trademarks. The Writing business’s on-demand labeling solutions are primarily sold under the Dymo® Office trademark. Additionally, the Learn segment also includes the Company’s Jostens business, which provides a product portfolio of high-quality class and championship rings and other jewelry, caps and gowns, diplomas, varsity jackets, yearbooks and other accessories.  

5  

Table of Contents 

The Learn segment generally markets its products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, travel retail, on-line and other retailers. The Jostens business markets and sells in the academic and achievement channel, under which we primarily serve U.S. high schools, colleges and universities, marketing and selling products to administrators, students and their parents. Jostens relies primarily on a network of independent sales representatives to sell its scholastic products in K-12 schools and an internal sales team to sell products to colleges and universities.  

Work  

The Work segment offers a broad portfolio of cleaning and commercial brands, including Rubbermaid®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Quickie®, Spontex® and MAPA® that are found in homes, hospitals, schools, stadiums and other commercial settings. The Work segment’s Waddington business is a major global packaging manufacturer and marketer serving the foodservice, bakery, deli, produce and confectionary markets whose products include containers, serving ware, drinkware and cutlery; and upscale disposable plastic products.  

The Work segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, commercial products distributors, select contract customers and other professional customers.  

Play  

The Play segment manufactures or sources, markets and distributes global consumer active lifestyle products for outdoor and outdoor-related activities, and primarily sells its products under the Berkley®, Coleman®, Contigo®, Ex Officio®, Marmot®, Rawlings®, and Shakespeare® trademarks. The businesses within the Play segment, such as camping, fishing and technical apparel, invest and innovate in brands in existing markets within the Growth Game Plan.  

The Play segment primarily markets its products directly to club, department store, drug/grocery, mass merchant, sporting goods and specialty retailers and distributors.  

Other  

The Other segment manufactures, markets and distributes a wide variety of plastic products including closures, contact lens packaging, medical disposables, plastic cutlery and rigid packaging under Jarden Plastic Solutions. The Jarden Applied Materials business produces specialty nylon polymers, conductive fibers and monofilament used in various products. Jarden Zinc Products business manufactures a line of industrial zinc products marketed globally for use in the architectural, automotive, construction, electrical component and plumbing markets. The Other segment’s largest factory is based in the U.S.A. (South Carolina). The Other segment also sells beauty products, vacuum cleaning systems and gaming products.  

The Other segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, commercial products distributors, select contract customers and other professional customers. The zinc products business is the sole source supplier of copper-plated zinc penny blanks to the United States Mint and a major supplier to the Royal Canadian Mint, as well as a supplier of brass, bronze and nickel-plated finishes on steel and zinc for coinage to other international markets.  

OTHER INFORMATION  

Multi-Product Offering  

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income, and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.  

Foreign Operations  

Information regarding the Company’s 2017, 2016 and 2015 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company’s Venezuelan operations.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods  

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate, glass, plastic, expanded polystyrene, extinguisher powder, nylon, paper, plastic resin, sawdust, tin plate, wax and wood, natural rubber, electrical components, glass fiber, magnesium, adhesives, various paper-related packaging materials and metals, including steel, stainless steel, aluminum copper and gold. The Company’s resin purchases principally comprise polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester.  

The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. Historically, the Company has experienced inflation in sourced product costs due to currency fluctuations and increased input and labor costs. For a limited number of product lines, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, certain businesses within the Company’s Live segment rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products. Specifically, the Baby division has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products.  

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.  

Backlog  

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.  

Seasonal Variations  

Sales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales, operating income and operating cash flow in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume combined with the accounting for fixed costs, such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company tends to generate the majority of its operating cash flow in the third and fourth quarters of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments, customer program payments, working capital requirements and credit terms provided to customers.  

Patents and Trademarks  

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks include Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Elmer’s®, Parker®, Waterman®, Dymo®, Rubbermaid®, Contigo®, Goody®, Calphalon®, Graco®, Baby Jogger®, Aprica®, Bionaire®, Coleman®, Crock-Pot®, First Alert®, FoodSaver®, Health o Meter®, Marmot®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster®, Quickie®, Rawlings®, Rival®, Shakespeare®, Stearns®, Sistema®, Sunbeam® and Yankee Candle®.  

Customers/Competition  

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, craft stores, direct-to-consumer channels, specialty retailers and wholesalers, commercial distributors, e-commerce companies and Yankee Candle retail stores. Additionally, we distribute our Jostens and Waddington products through the academic and achievement channel and foodservice channel, respectively. The dominant share of the market represented by large mass merchandisers, together with consumer shopping patterns, contributes to a market environment in which dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.  

Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, which compete with the Company’s products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established. Our Yankee Candle retail stores compete primarily with specialty candle and personal care retailers and a variety of other retailers, including department stores, gift stores and national specialty retailers that carry candles.  

7  

Table of Contents 

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining leading brands and differentiated products that deliver superior value and performance; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; producing and procuring products at a competitive cost; and experienced management. In addition, the Company focuses on building consumer loyalty and increased consumer demand through increased investment in consumer insights and using those insights to develop innovative products and product features that meet consumers’ needs.  

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailers, including discount, drug/grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; contract stationers; and e-commerce companies. The Company’s largest customer, Walmart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 13.7%, 13.5% and 10.9% of net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, across substantially all segments. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2017 included (in alphabetical order): amazon, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Costco, Lowe’s, Office Depot, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us and Walmart.  

Environmental Matters  

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Research and Development  

The Company’s research and development efforts focus on developing new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs. The Company’s product development efforts begin with consumer insights. The Company has consolidated its consumer marketing and insight capabilities into a global center of excellence and is investing further to strengthen these capabilities. The Company continues to invest to strengthen its product design, research and development capabilities and has consolidated its design and innovation capabilities into a global center of excellence. The Company’s enhanced marketing and insight and research and development capabilities have been leveraged to implement a new ideation process throughout the business, resulting in idea fragments that feed the development of product concepts.  

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2017, the Company had approximately 49,000 employees worldwide. Approximately 12,000 of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. Management believes that our relationships with our employees and collective bargaining unions are satisfactory.  

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS