PART I  

 ITEM 1.   BUSINESS  

(a) General Development of the Business  

Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, the “Company” or “Colgate”) is a leading consumer products company whose products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world. Colgate was founded in 1806 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923.  

For recent business developments and other information, refer to the information set forth under the captions “Executive Overview,” “Results of Operations,” “Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges,” “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Outlook” in Part II, Item 7 of this report.  

(b) Financial Information about Segments  

Worldwide net sales and operating profit by business segment and geographic region during the last three years appear under the caption “Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this report and in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

(c) Narrative Description of the Business  

The Company manages its business in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Colgate is a global leader in Oral Care with the leading toothpaste brand throughout many parts of the world according to value share data provided by ACNielsen. Colgate’s Oral Care products include toothpaste, toothbrushes, oral rinses, dental floss and pharmaceutical products for dentists and other oral health professionals. Significant recent product launches include Colgate Max Fresh, Colgate Max White, Colgate Sensitive Multi Protection, Colgate Total Advanced Clean, Colgate Total Professional Clean, Colgate Max Fresh BURST and Colgate Herbal Seabuckthorn toothpastes; Colgate 360°, Colgate 360° Sensitive and Colgate Twister Fresh manual toothbrushes; Colgate 360° Sonic Power battery toothbrush and Colgate Plax Whitening mouth rinse.  

Colgate is a leader in many product categories of the Personal Care market. The Personal Care market includes shower gels, shampoos, conditioners, bar soaps, and deodorants and antiperspirants as well as liquid hand soaps in which Colgate is the market leader in the U.S. based on value share data provided by ACNielsen. Significant recent product launches include Palmolive Naturals Mint & Eucalyptus, Palmolive Pure Cashmere, Palmolive Thermal Spa Seabuckthorn, Protex Deo 12 and Protex Icy Cool bar soaps, Palmolive Thermal Spa Seabuckthorn shower gel, Palmolive BodYogurt body wash, Palmolive Pure Cashmere shower cream, Softsoap brand Nutra-Oil moisturizing body wash, Palmolive Caprice shampoo and Lady Speed Stick for Teens multi-form deodorant.  

Colgate manufactures and markets a wide array of products for Home Care, including Palmolive and Ajax dishwashing liquids, Fabuloso and Ajax household cleaners and Murphy’s Oil Soap. Colgate is a market leader in fabric conditioners with leading brands including Suavitel in Latin America and Soupline in Europe. Significant recent product launches in Home Care include Palmolive Scrub Buster with Micro Beads dish liquid, Soupline Aromatherapy and Suavitel fabric conditioners, Fabuloso liquid cleaner, Ajax Professional bucket dilutable cleaner and Ajax Professional glass cleaner.  

Sales of Oral, Personal and Home Care products accounted for 40%, 23% and 24%, respectively, of total worldwide sales in 2007. Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of the Company’s business in Greater Asia/Africa, comprising approximately 64% of sales in that region for 2007.  

Colgate, through its Hill’s Pet Nutrition segment (Hill’s), is a world leader in specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats with products marketed in over 90 countries around the world. Hill’s markets pet foods   

1  

Table of Contents 

 primarily under two trademarks: Science Diet, which is sold by authorized pet supply retailers, breeders and veterinarians for everyday nutritional needs; and Prescription Diet, a range of therapeutic products sold by veterinarians to help nutritionally manage disease conditions in dogs and cats. Significant recent Science Diet product launches include Science Plan Chunks in Gravy Feline pouches as well as the relaunch of Science Diet Nature’s Best Canine. Significant recent Prescription Diet product launches include Prescription Diet c/d Multicare Feline, Prescription Diet j/d Light Canine and Prescription Diet Hypo-Allergenic Treats for dogs and cats. Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for 13% of the Company’s total worldwide sales in 2007. For more information regarding the Company’s worldwide sales by product categories, refer to Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Research and Development  

Strong research and development capabilities and alliances enable Colgate to support its many brands with technologically sophisticated products to meet consumers’ oral, personal and home care and pet nutrition needs. Company spending related to research and development activities was $247.0 million, $241.5 million and $238.5 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents  

The Company’s products are generally marketed by a direct sales force at each individual operating subsidiary or business unit. In some instances, distributors or brokers are used. No single customer accounts for 10% or more of the Company’s sales.  

Most raw and packaging materials are purchased from other companies and are available from several sources. For certain materials, however, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry and government standards, which can require additional investment and take some period of time. Raw and packaging material commodities such as resins, tallow, corn and soybeans are subject to wide price variations. No single raw or packaging material represents a significant portion of the Company’s total material requirements.  

The Company’s products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace, which is experiencing increased trade concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. Products similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater resources than the Company. In addition, private label brands sold by retail trade chains are a source of competition for certain product lines of the Company. Product quality and innovation, brand recognition, marketing capability and acceptance of new products largely determine success in the Company’s business segments.  

Trademarks are considered to be of material importance to the Company’s business. The Company follows a practice of seeking trademark protection by all appropriate means in the U.S. and throughout the world where the Company’s products are sold. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Mennen, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, Elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Soupline, Suavitel, Hill’s Science Diet and Hill’s Prescription Diet. The Company’s rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they are used and registered. Although the Company actively develops and maintains a portfolio of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2007, the Company employed approximately 36,000 employees.  

Environmental Matters  

The Company has programs that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities meet or exceed standards established by applicable environmental rules and regulations. Capital expenditures for environmental   

2  

Table of Contents 

 control facilities totaled $15.6 million for 2007. For future years, expenditures are expected to be in the same range. For additional information regarding environmental matters refer to Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

(d) Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export Sales  

For financial data by geographic region, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7, of this report and in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Effective January 1, 2006, the Company modified the geographic reporting structure of its Oral, Personal and Home Care segment in order to address evolving markets and more closely align countries with similar consumer needs and retail trade structures. Management responsibility for Eastern European operations, including Russia, Turkey, Ukraine and Belarus, was transferred to Greater Asia management, and responsibility for operations in the South Pacific, including Australia, was transferred to European management. The financial information for 2005 has been reclassified to conform to the new reporting structure.  

(e) Available Information  

The Company’s website address is www.colgate.com. The information contained on the Company’s website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available, free of charge on its Internet website, its annual reports on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Also available on the Company’s website are the Company’s Code of Conduct and Corporate Governance Guidelines, the charters of the Committees of the Board of Directors and reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act of transactions in Company stock by directors and officers.  

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS