PART I  

  Item 1.  Business  

PepsiCo, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in 1919 and was reincorporated in North Carolina in 1986. When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” “PepsiCo” and the “Company” mean PepsiCo, Inc. and its divisions and subsidiaries.  

We are a leading global beverage, snack and food company. We manufacture or use contract manufacturers, market and sell a variety of salty, convenient, sweet and grain-based snacks, carbonated and non-carbonated beverages and foods in approximately 200 countries, with our largest operations in North America (United States and Canada), Mexico and the United Kingdom.  

Our commitment to sustainable growth, defined as Performance with Purpose, is focused on generating healthy financial returns while giving back to the communities we serve. This includes meeting consumer needs for a spectrum of convenient foods and beverages, reducing our impact on the environment through water, energy and packaging initiatives, and supporting our employees through a diverse and inclusive culture that recruits and retains world-class talent. In September 2008, we were again included on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. These indices are compiled annually.  

Our Divisions  

We are organized into three business units, as follows:  

    (1)  PepsiCo Americas Foods (PAF), which includes Frito-Lay North America (FLNA), Quaker Foods North America (QFNA) and all of our Latin American food and snack businesses (LAF), including our Sabritas and Gamesa businesses in Mexico;  

    (2)  PepsiCo Americas Beverages (PAB), which includes PepsiCo Beverages North America and all of our Latin American beverage businesses; and  

    (3)  PepsiCo International (PI), which includes all PepsiCo businesses in the United Kingdom, Europe, Asia, Middle East and Africa.  

1  

Table of Contents 

Our three business units are comprised of six reportable segments (referred to as divisions), as follows:  

    •    FLNA,  

    •    QFNA,  

    •    LAF,  

    •    PAB,  

    •    United Kingdom & Europe (UKEU), and  

    •    Middle East, Africa & Asia (MEAA).  

See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for financial information about our divisions and geographic areas.  

Frito-Lay North America  

FLNA manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets, sells and distributes branded snacks. These snacks include Lay’s potato chips, Doritos tortilla chips, Cheetos cheese flavored snacks, Tostitos tortilla chips, branded dips, Fritos corn chips, Ruffles potato chips, Quaker Chewy granola bars, SunChips multigrain snacks, Rold Gold pretzels, Santitas tortilla chips, Frito-Lay nuts, Grandma’s cookies, Gamesa cookies, Munchies snack mix, Funyuns onion flavored rings, Quaker Quakes corn and rice snacks, Miss Vickie’s potato chips, Stacy’s pita chips, Smartfood popcorn, Chester’s fries and branded crackers. FLNA branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. In addition, FLNA’s joint venture with Strauss Group manufactures, markets, sells and distributes Sabra refrigerated dips. FLNA’s net revenue was $12.5 billion, $11.6 billion and $10.8 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and approximated 29% of our total net revenue in both 2008 and 2007 and 31% of our total net revenue in 2006.  

Quaker Foods North America  

QFNA manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells cereals, rice, pasta and other branded products. QFNA’s products include Quaker oatmeal, Aunt Jemima mixes and syrups, Quaker grits, Cap’n Crunch cereal, Life cereal, Rice-A-Roni, Pasta Roni and Near East side dishes. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. QFNA’s net revenue was $1.9 billion in both 2008 and 2007 and $1.8 billion in 2006 and approximated 4% of our total net revenue in 2008 and 5% of our total net revenue in both 2007 and 2006.  

2  

Table of Contents 

Latin America Foods  

LAF manufactures, markets and sells a number of leading salty and sweet snack brands including Gamesa, Doritos, Cheetos, Ruffles, Sabritas and Lay’s. Further, LAF manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand cereals and snacks. These branded products are sold to independent distributors and retailers. LAF’s net revenue was $5.9 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.0 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively and approximated 14%, 12% and 11% of our total net revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

PepsiCo Americas Beverages  

PAB manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mountain Dew, Gatorade, 7UP (outside the U.S.), Tropicana Pure Premium, Sierra Mist, Mirinda, Tropicana juice drinks, Propel, Dole, Amp Energy, SoBe Lifewater, Naked juice and Izze. PAB also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea, coffee and water products through joint ventures with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name) and Starbucks. In addition, PAB licenses the Aquafina water brand to its bottlers and markets this brand. PAB sells concentrate and finished goods for some of these brands to authorized bottlers, and some of these branded finished goods are sold directly by us to independent distributors and retailers. The bottlers sell our brands as finished goods to independent distributors and retailers. PAB’s volume reflects sales to its independent distributors and retailers, as well as the sales of beverages bearing our trademarks that bottlers have reported as sold to independent distributors and retailers. Bottler case sales (BCS) and concentrate shipments and equivalents (CSE) are not necessarily equal during any given period due to seasonality, timing of product launches, product mix, bottler inventory practices and other factors. While our revenues are not based on BCS volume, we believe that BCS is a valuable measure as it quantifies the sell-through of our products at the consumer level. PAB’s net revenue was $10.9 billion, $11.1 billion and $10.4 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and approximated 25%, 28% and 29% of our total net revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

United Kingdom & Europe  

UKEU manufactures, markets and sells through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates, a number of leading salty and sweet snack brands including Lay’s, Walkers, Doritos, Cheetos and Ruffles. Further, UKEU manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand cereals and snacks. UKEU also manufactures, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, 7UP and Tropicana. In addition, through our acquisition of JSC Lebedyansky (Lebedyansky), we acquired Russia’s leading juice brands. These brands are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, UKEU operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, UKEU licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. UKEU also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever (under the Lipton brand name).  

3  

Table of Contents 

UKEU reports two measures of volume. Snack volume is reported on a system-wide basis, which includes our own sales and the sales by our noncontrolled affiliates of snacks bearing Company-owned or licensed trademarks. Beverage volume reflects Company-owned or authorized bottler sales of beverages bearing Company-owned or licensed trademarks to independent distributors and retailers (see PepsiCo Americas Beverages above). UKEU’s net revenue was $6.4 billion, $5.5 billion and $4.8 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively and approximated 15% of our total net revenue in 2008 and 14% of our total net revenue in both 2007 and 2006.  

Middle East, Africa & Asia  

MEAA manufactures, markets and sells through consolidated businesses as well as through noncontrolled affiliates, a number of leading salty and sweet snack brands including Lay’s, Doritos, Cheetos, Smith’s and Ruffles. Further, MEAA manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells many Quaker brand cereals and snacks. MEAA also manufactures, markets and sells beverage concentrates, fountain syrups and finished goods, under various beverage brands including Pepsi, Mirinda, 7UP and Mountain Dew. These brands are sold to authorized bottlers, independent distributors and retailers. However, in certain markets, MEAA operates its own bottling plants and distribution facilities. In addition, MEAA licenses the Aquafina water brand to certain of its authorized bottlers. MEAA also manufactures or uses contract manufacturers, markets and sells ready-to-drink tea products through an international joint venture with Unilever. MEAA reports two measures of volume (see United Kingdom & Europe above). MEAA’s net revenue was $5.6 billion, $4.6 billion and $3.4 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively and approximated 13%, 12% and 10% of our total net revenue in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

New Organizational Structure  

Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, we realigned certain countries within PI to be consistent with changes in geographic responsibility. As a result, our businesses in Turkey and certain Central Asia markets will become part of UKEU, which was renamed the Europe division. These countries were formerly part of MEAA, which was renamed the Asia, Middle East & Africa division. The changes did not impact the other existing reportable segments. Our historical segment reporting will be restated in 2009 to reflect the new structure. The division amounts and discussions reflected in this Form 10-K reflect the management reporting that existed through 2008.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Our Distribution Network  

Our products are brought to market through direct-store-delivery (DSD), customer warehouse and foodservice and vending distribution networks. The distribution system used depends on customer needs, product characteristics and local trade practices. These distribution systems are described under the heading “Our Distribution Network” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”  

Ingredients and Other Supplies  

The principal ingredients we use in our food and beverage businesses are aspartame, cocoa, corn, corn sweeteners, flavorings, flour, grapefruits and other fruits, juice and juice concentrates, oats, oranges, potatoes, rice, seasonings, sucralose, sugar, vegetable and essential oils, and wheat. Our key packaging materials include polyethylene terephthalate (PET) resin used for plastic bottles, film packaging used for snack foods, aluminum used for cans, glass bottles and cardboard. Fuel and natural gas are also important commodities due to their use in our plants and in the trucks delivering our products. These ingredients, raw materials and commodities are purchased mainly in the open market. We employ specialists to secure adequate supplies of many of these items and have not experienced any significant continuous shortages. The prices we pay for such items are subject to fluctuation. When prices increase, we may or may not pass on such increases to our customers. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on how we manage our commodity costs.  

Our Brands  

We own numerous valuable trademarks which are essential to our worldwide businesses, including Alegro, Amp Energy, Aquafina, Aunt Jemima, Cap’n Crunch, Cheetos, Cracker Jack, Diet Pepsi, Doritos, Duyvis, Frito-Lay, Fritos, Fruktovy Sad, Frustyle, Gamesa, Gatorade, Grandma’s, Izze, Lay’s, Life, Matutano, Mirinda, Mountain Dew, Mtn Dew, Mug, NAKED, Near East, Pasta Roni, Pepsi, Pepsi Max, Pepsi One, Propel, Quaker, Quaker Chewy, Quakes, Rice-A-Roni, Rold Gold, Ruffles, Sabritas, Sakata, 7UP and Diet 7UP (outside the United States), Sierra Mist, Simba, Smith’s, Snack a Jacks, SoBe, SoBe Lifewater, Sonric’s, Stacy’s, SunChips, Tonus, Tostitos, Tropicana, Tropicana Pure Premium, Tropicana Twister, TrueNorth, V Water, Walkers and Ya. We also hold long-term licenses to use valuable trademarks in connection with our products, including Lipton, Starbucks, Dole and Ocean Spray. Trademarks remain valid so long as they are used properly for identification purposes, and we emphasize correct use of our trademarks. We have authorized, through licensing arrangements, the use of many of our trademarks in such contexts as snack food joint ventures and beverage bottling appointments. In addition, we license the use of our trademarks on promotional items for the primary purpose of enhancing brand awareness.  

We either own or have licenses to use a number of patents which relate to some of our products, their packaging, the processes for their production and the design and operation of various equipment used in our businesses. Some of these patents are licensed to others.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Seasonality  

Our beverage and food divisions are subject to seasonal variations. Our beverage sales are higher during the warmer months and certain food sales are higher in the cooler months. Weekly beverage and snack sales are generally highest in the third quarter due to seasonal and holiday-related patterns, and generally lowest in the first quarter. However, taken as a whole, seasonality does not have a material impact on our business.  

Our Customers  

Our customers include authorized bottlers and independent distributors, including foodservice distributors and retailers. We normally grant our bottlers exclusive contracts to sell and manufacture certain beverage products bearing our trademarks within a specific geographic area. These arrangements provide us with the right to charge our bottlers for concentrate, finished goods and Aquafina royalties and specify the manufacturing process required for product quality.  

Retail consolidation and the current economic environment continue to increase the importance of major customers. In 2008, sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. (Wal-Mart), including Sam’s Club (Sam’s), represented approximately 12% of our total net revenue. Our top five retail customers represented approximately 32% of our 2008 North American net revenue, with Wal-Mart (including Sam’s) representing approximately 18%. These percentages include concentrate sales to our bottlers which are used in finished goods sold by them to these retailers. In addition, sales to The Pepsi Bottling Group (PBG) represented approximately 8% of our total net revenue in 2008. See “Our Customers” and “Our Related Party Bottlers” contained in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our customers, including our anchor bottlers.  

Our Competition  

Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. We compete against global, regional, local and private label manufacturers on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. In U.S. measured channels, our chief beverage competitor, The Coca-Cola Company, has a larger share of CSD (carbonated soft drinks) consumption, while we have a larger share of liquid refreshment beverages consumption. In addition, The Coca-Cola Company has a significant CSD share advantage in many markets outside the United States. Further, our snack brands hold significant leadership positions in the snack industry worldwide. Our snack brands face local and regional competitors, as well as national and global snack competitors, and compete on the basis of price, quality, product variety and distribution. Success in this competitive environment is dependent on effective promotion of existing products and the introduction of new products. We believe that the strength of our brands, innovation and marketing, coupled with the quality of our products and flexibility of our distribution network, allow us to compete effectively.  

6  

Table of Contents 

  (1)  The categories and category share information in the charts above are defined by the following source of the information: Information Resources, Inc. The above charts exclude data from certain customers such as Wal-Mart that do not report data to this service.  

Research and Development  

We engage in a variety of research and development activities. These activities principally involve the development of new products, improvement in the quality of existing products, improvement and modernization of production processes, and the development and implementation of new technologies to enhance the quality and value of both current and proposed product lines. Consumer research is excluded from research and development costs and included in other marketing costs. Research and development costs were $388 million in 2008, $364 million in 2007 and $282 million in 2006 and are reported within selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Regulatory Environment and Environmental Compliance  

The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, labeling, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets where we operate. It is our policy to abide by the laws and regulations around the world that apply to our businesses.  

7  

Table of Contents 

In the United States, we are required to comply with federal laws, such as the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act, laws governing equal employment opportunity, customs and foreign trade laws and regulations, laws regulating the sales of products in schools, and various other federal statutes and regulations. We are also subject to various state and local statutes and regulations, including California Proposition 65 which requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the State of California as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. Many food and beverage producers who sell products in California, including PepsiCo, may be required to provide warning labels on their products. See also “Risk Factors – Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation.”  

In many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of special importance to us due to our competitive position in those jurisdictions. We rely on legal and operational compliance programs, as well as local in-house and outside counsel, to guide our businesses in complying with applicable laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business.  

Legislation has been enacted in certain U.S. states and in certain of the countries in which our products are sold that requires collection and recycling of containers or that prohibits the sale of our beverages in certain non-refillable containers unless a deposit or other fee is charged. It is possible that similar or more restrictive legal requirements may be proposed or enacted in the future.  

The cost of compliance with U.S. and foreign laws does not have a material financial impact on our operations.  

We are subject to national and local environmental laws in the United States and in the foreign countries in which we do business, including laws relating to water consumption and treatment. We are committed to meeting all applicable environmental compliance requirements. Environmental compliance costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.  

Employees  

As of December 27, 2008, we employed approximately 198,000 people worldwide, including approximately 64,000 people within the United States. Our employment levels are subject to seasonal variations. We believe that relations with our employees are generally good.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Available Information  

We are required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The public may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are also available free of charge on our internet website at http://www.pepsico.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into this or any of our other filings with the SEC.  

Item 1A. Risk Factors