PART I

ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Note – Information in this section is as of year end unless otherwise noted. The year end is typically December 31, 2013 unless additional years are included or noted.

Fastenal Company (together with our subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as Fastenal or the Company or by terms such as we, our, or us) began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. We have 2,687 store locations. The various geographic areas in which we operate these store locations are summarized later in this document.

We employ 17,277 people. We characterize these personnel as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We sell industrial and construction supplies to end-users (typically business-to-business), and also have some 'walk-in' retail business. These industrial and construction supplies are grouped into eleven product lines described later in this document.

We operate 14 distribution centers in North America from which we distribute products to our store and in-plant locations. Eleven of these are in the United States, two are in Canada, and one is in Mexico.

Our Internet address for corporate and investor information is www.fastenal.com. The information contained on this website or connected to this website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report.

Development of the Business

We began in 1967 with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers in small, medium-sized, and, in subsequent years, large cities. We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer our customers a full line of products at convenient locations and to the high quality of our employees.

We opened our first store in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population of approximately 27,000. The following table shows our consolidated net sales for each fiscal year during the last ten years and the number of our store locations at the end of each of the last ten years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3
We operated the following number of store locations:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We select new locations for our stores based on their proximity to our distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for manufacturing and construction. In 2013, 2012, and 2011, we opened new stores at a rate of approximately 2%, 3%, and 5%, respectively. We expect to open 50 to 70 stores in 2014, or a rate of approximately 2% to 3%.

We stock all new stores with inventory drawn from all of our product lines. Subsequent to a new opening, store and district personnel may supplement the inventory offering to customize the selection to the needs of our local customer base.

We currently have several versions of selling locations. The first type of selling location – a Fastenal store location – is either (1) a ‘traditional’ store, which services a wide variety of customers and stocks a wide selection of the products we offer or (2) an ‘overseas’ store which focuses on manufacturing customers and on the fastener product line (this is the type of store format we have outside of North America).

In addition to the Fastenal store type discussed above, we also operate strategic account stores, strategic account sites, and ‘in-plant’ sites. A strategic account store is a unique location that sells to multiple large customers in a market. Because this location sells to multiple customers, it is included in our store count. A strategic account site is essentially the same, but it typically operates out of an existing store location, rather than a unique location; therefore, it is not included in our store count. An ‘in-plant’ site is a selling unit located in or near a customer’s facility that sells product solely to that customer. ‘In-plant’ sites are not included in the store count numbers as they represent a customer subset of an existing store.

We currently believe, based on the demographics of the marketplace in North America, that there is sufficient potential in this geographic area to support at least 3,500 total stores. Many of the new store locations may be in cities in which we currently operate. Fastenal has not operated outside of North America long enough to assess the market potential of those markets.

4
We opened the following stores in the last five years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

We plan to open additional stores outside of the United States in the future. The stores located outside the United States contributed approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in 2013, with approximately 61% of this amount attributable to our Canadian operations.

No assurance can be given that any of the expansion plans described above will be achieved, or that new store locations, once opened, will be profitable.

It has been our experience that near-term profitability has been adversely affected by the opening of new store locations. This adverse effect is due to the start-up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store generates its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it typically requires ten to twelve months for a new store to achieve its first profitable month, although this time frame has been longer in the current economic environment. Of the eleven stores opened in the first quarter of 2013, two were profitable in the fourth quarter of 2013.

5
The data in the following table shows the change in the average sales of our stores from 2012 to 2013 based on the age of each store. Included in the average monthly sales amounts, are sales from our non-store selling locations, such as our Holo-Krome®  business (included in the 2009 group, the year it was acquired). The stores opened in 2013 contributed approximately $18,620 (or approximately 0.6%) of our consolidated net sales in 2013, with the remainder coming from stores opened prior to 2013 or from our non-store business.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

3 The average sales include sales of stores open for less than the full fiscal year.

Several years ago, we introduced our FAST Solutions® (industrial vending) offering and it has been a rapidly expanding component of our business. We believe industrial vending is the next logical chapter in the Fastenal story and also believe it has the potential to be transformative to industrial distribution, both because of its benefits to our customers such as reduced consumption, reduced purchase orders, reduced product handling, and 24-hour product availability, and its benefits to us in that it allows us to strengthen our relationships with our customers and streamline the supply chain. We believe we have a 'first mover' advantage in industrial vending and are investing aggressively to maximize this advantage. 

We operate eleven regional distribution centers in the United States—Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, and Kansas, and three outside the United States – Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo Leon, Mexico. These 14 distribution centers give us over 2.7 million square feet of distribution capacity. These distribution centers are located so as to permit twice-a-week to five times-a-week deliveries to our stores using our trucks and overnight delivery by surface common carrier. As the number of stores increases, we intend to add new distribution centers. The distribution centers in Indiana and California also serve as a 'master' hub to support the needs of the stores in their geographic region as well as provide a broader selection of products for the stores serviced by the other distribution centers.

We currently operate our Georgia, Indiana, Ohio, Minnesota, and Texas distribution centers with 'automated storage and retrieval systems' or ASRS. These five distribution centers operate with greater speed and efficiency, and currently handle approximately 66% of our picking activity. The Indiana facility also contains our centralized replenishment facility for a portion of our industrial vending business. This operation is also highly automated. We intend to invest in this type of ASRS distribution infrastructure over the next several years at our California, Kansas, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Ontario, Canada locations.

Our information systems department develops, implements, and maintains the computer based technology used to support business functions within Fastenal. Corporate, e-Business, and distribution center systems are primarily supported from a central location(s), while each store uses a locally installed Point-Of-Sale (POS) system. The systems consist of both customized and purchased software. A dedicated Wide Area Network (WAN) is used to provide connectivity between systems and authorized users.

6
Trademarks and Service Marks

We conduct business under various trademarks and service marks, and we utilize a variety of designs and tag lines in connection with each of these marks, including First In Fasteners®. Although we do not believe our operations are substantially dependent upon any of our trademarks or service marks, we consider the ‘Fastenal’ name and our other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to our business.

Products

Our original product offerings were fasteners and other industrial and construction supplies, many of which are sold under the Fastenal® product name. This product line, which we refer to as the fastener product line, consists of two broad categories: threaded fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers; and miscellaneous supplies and hardware, such as various pins and machinery keys, concrete anchors, metal framing systems, wire rope, strut, rivets, and related accessories.

Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects, and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Many aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities. Variations from city to city that do exist typically relate to the types of businesses operating in a market or to the environmental conditions in a market. Therefore, we open each store with a broad selection of base stocks of inventory and then encourage the local store and district leaders to tailor the additional inventory to the local market demand as it develops.

Threaded fasteners accounted for approximately 90% of the fastener product line sales in 2013, 2012, and 2011 and approximately 38%, 40%, and 42% of our consolidated net sales in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.

Since 1993, we have added additional product lines. These product lines are sold through the same distribution channel as the original fastener product line. Our product lines include the following:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

1 We do not sell welding gases.

Each product line listed above may contain multiple product categories. During the last several years, we have added 'private label' brands (we often refer to these as 'exclusive brands') to our offering. These 'private label' brands represent approximately 10% of total sales; most of these 'private label' products are in the non-fastener product lines.

We plan to continue to add other products in the future.

Inventory Control

Our inventory stocking levels are determined using our computer systems, our sales personnel at the store, district, and region levels, and our product managers. The data used for this determination is derived from sales activity from all of our stores, from individual stores, and from different geographic areas. It is also derived from vendor information and from customer demographic information. The computer system monitors the inventory level for all stock items and triggers replenishment, or prompts a buyer to purchase, as necessary, based on an established minimum-maximum level. All stores stock a base inventory and may expand beyond preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by the district and store managers. Inventories in 

7
distribution centers are established from computerized data for the stores served by the respective centers. Inventory quantities are continuously re-balanced utilizing an automated transfer mechanism we call ‘inventory re-distribution’.

Manufacturing and Support Services Operations

In 2013, approximately 95% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards or to customer specific requirements. The remaining 5% related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by our manufacturing businesses or our support services. The manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners made to customers’ specifications or standard sizes manufactured under our Holo-Krome® product line. The services provided by the support services group include, but are not limited to, items such as tool repair, band saw blade welding, third-party logistics, and light manufacturing. We engage in these activities primarily as a service to our customers and expect these activities in the future to continue to contribute in the range of 4% to 10% of our consolidated net sales.

Sources of Supply

We use a large number of suppliers for the standard stock items we distribute. Most items distributed by our network can be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than 5% of our purchases in 2013.

Geographic Information

Information regarding our revenues and certain assets by geographic location is set forth in Note 8 of the 'Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements' included later in this Form 10-K under the heading ‘Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data’. Foreign currency fluctuations, changes in trade relations, or fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies could impact our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices and our foreign sales.

Customers and Marketing

We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer customers a full line of quality products at convenient locations, and to the superior service orientation and expertise of our employees. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment manufacturers and maintenance and repair operations. The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, mining companies, federal, state and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. During the fourth quarter of 2013, our total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 405,000.

During each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, no one customer accounted for 10% or more of our sales. We believe that our large number of customers, together with the varied markets that they represent, provide some protection to us from economic downturns that are not across multiple industries and geographic regions.

Direct marketing continues to be the backbone of our business through our local storefronts and selling personnel. We support our stores with multi-channel marketing including email marketing, catalogs, promotional flyers, events, online and store signage. Our national advertising has been focused on NASCAR® sponsorships over the past few years, including sponsoring No. 99 driver, Carl Edwards, in the Sprint Cup Series since 2012. Along with the NASCAR® sponsorship, we do limited print advertising across a variety of industry publications and Delta Sky magazine.

Seasonality

Seasonality has some impact on our sales. During the winter months, our sales to customers in the non-residential construction market typically slow due to inclement weather. Also, sales to our industrial production customers may decrease during the Fourth of July holiday period, the Thanksgiving holiday period (October in Canada and November in The United States), and the Christmas and New Year holiday period, due to plant shut-downs.

Competition

Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include both large distributors located primarily in large cities and smaller distributors located in many of the same smaller markets in which we have stores. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products are customer service, price, convenience, product availability, and cost saving solutions.

Some competitors use vans to sell their products in markets away from their main warehouses, while others rely on mail order, websites, or telemarketing sales. We, however, believe the convenience provided to customers by operating stores in small, 

8
medium, and large markets, each offering a wide variety of products, is a competitive selling advantage and the convenience of a large number of stores in a given area, taken together with our ability to provide frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution centers, makes possible the prompt and efficient distribution of products. We also believe our FAST Solutions® (industrial vending), combined with our local storefront, provides a unique way to provide to our customers convenient access to products and cost saving solutions in a business model not easily replicated by our competitors. Having trained personnel at each store also enhances our ability to compete (see ‘Employees’ below).

Employees

We employ a total of 17,277 full and part-time employees, most of whom are employed at a store location. A breakout of the number of employees, and their respective roles, is contained earlier in this document.

We believe the quality of our employees is critical to our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to our ability to open new stores in new markets. We foster the growth and education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training programs and by decentralizing decision-making. Wherever possible, our goal is to ‘promote from within’. For example, most new store managers are promoted from an outside sales position and district managers (who supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers.

The Fastenal School of Business (our internal corporate university program) develops and delivers a comprehensive array of industry and company specific education and training programs that are offered to all employees. Our school of business provides core curricula focused on key competencies determined to be critical to the success of our employees’ performance. In addition, we provide specialized educational tracks within various institutes of learning. These institutes of learning are advanced levels that provide specific concentrations of education and development and have been designed to focus on the critical aspects of our business. These institutes provide a focused educational experience to enhance employee performance in relevant business areas such as leadership, effective store best practices, sales and marketing, product education, and distribution.

Our sales personnel are compensated with a modest base salary and an incentive bonus arrangement that places emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store, district, and regional basis, while still attaining targeted levels of, among other things, gross profit and collections. As a result, a significant portion of our total employment cost varies with sales volume. We also pay incentive bonuses to our leadership personnel based on one or more of the following factors: sales growth, profit growth (before and after taxes), profitability, and return on assets, and to our other personnel for achieving pre-determined departmental, project, and cost containment goals.

None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are good.

Available Information

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our website at www.fastenal.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC.

9
ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS