PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

General Development and Description of Business and Business Segments  

Except as expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, as used herein, “Hasbro”, the “Company”, “we”, or “us”, means Hasbro, Inc., a Rhode Island corporation organized on January 8, 1926, and its subsidiaries.  

Overview  

We are a global company committed to Creating the World’s Best Play Experiences. We strive to do this through deep consumer engagement and the application of consumer insights, the use of immersive storytelling to build our brands, product innovation and development of global business reach. We apply these principles to leverage our beloved owned and controlled brands, including LITTLEST PET SHOP, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS, as well as our premier partner brands. From toys and games to television programming, motion pictures, digital gaming and a comprehensive licensing program, Hasbro fulfills the fundamental need for play and connection for children and families around the world. The Company’s wholly-owned Hasbro Studios creates entertainment brand-driven storytelling across mediums, including television, film and more. Successful execution of our brand blueprint involves re-imagining, re-inventing, and re-igniting our owned and controlled brands, and imagining, inventing and igniting new brands, through toy and game innovation, immersive entertainment offerings, including television programming and motion pictures, and a broad range of licensed products, ranging from traditional to high-tech and digital, all informed by storytelling and consumer insights.  

The Company’s brand architecture identifies franchise brands, challenger brands, gaming mega brands, key partner brands and new brands. The Company’s franchise and challenger brands represent Company-owned brands or brands, which if not entirely owned are broadly controlled by the Company, and which have been successful over the long term. Franchise brands are the Company’s most significant owned or controlled brands which it believes have the ability to deliver significant revenue over the long-term. Challenger brands are brands  

which have not yet achieved franchise brand status, but which the Company believes have the potential to do so  

1  

Table of Contents 

 with investment and time. The Company’s franchise brands are LITTLEST PET SHOP, MAGIC: THE GATHERING, MONOPOLY, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF, PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS, while challenger brands include BABY ALIVE, FURBY, FURREAL FRIENDS, KRE-O, PLAYSKOOL and PLAYSKOOL HEROES. The Company’s gaming mega brands are CONNECT 4, ELEFUN & FRIENDS, JENGA, THE GAME OF LIFE, OPERATION, SCRABBLE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT and TWISTER. Hasbro also seeks to imagine, invent and ignite new or archived brands by offering engaging branded play experiences. In addition to product offerings under Hasbro-owned brands or brands, which if not entirely owned, are broadly controlled by the Company, offerings may also include products which are branded and developed under key licenses from our partners. Significant partner brands include MARVEL characters, including SPIDER-MAN and THE AVENGERS, STAR WARS, DISNEY DESCENDANTS, JURASSIC WORLD, and SESAME STREET. Both MARVEL and STAR WARS are owned by The Walt Disney Company (“Disney”).  

Our innovative product offerings encompass a broad variety of toys including boys’ action figures, vehicles and playsets, girls’ toys, electronic toys, plush products, preschool toys and infant products, electronic interactive products, creative play and toy-related specialty products. Games offerings include face to face, trading card and digital game experiences played as board, off-the-board, digital, card, electronic, trading card and role-playing games.  

As part of our brand blueprint, we seek to build our brands through entertainment-based storytelling, including television and movies, digital gaming and out-licensing. Hasbro Studios LLC (“Hasbro Studios”) is our wholly-owned production studio, which is responsible for entertainment brand-driven storytelling across mediums, including the development and global distribution of television programming primarily based on our brands. This programming currently airs in markets throughout the world. Domestically, Hasbro Studios primarily distributes programming to Hub Television Network, LLC, formerly known as Hub Network and, as of October 13, 2014, now the Discovery Family Channel (the “Network”). The Network is a joint venture with Discovery Communications, Inc. (“Discovery”) which operates a cable television network in the United States dedicated to high-quality children’s and family entertainment and educational programming. Beginning in 2015, Hasbro Studios will begin distributing certain programming domestically to other outlets, including Cartoon Network. Internationally, Hasbro Studios distributes to various broadcasters and cable networks. Lastly, Hasbro Studios distributes programming globally on various digital platforms, including Netflix and iTunes. During 2014, we formed Allspark Pictures, Hasbro’s film label, and anticipate producing both animated and live action theatrical releases based on our brands. The Company’s storytelling initiatives support its strategy of growing its brands well beyond traditional toys and games and providing entertainment experiences for consumers of all ages accessible anytime in many forms and formats.  

In July 2013, the Company acquired a 70% majority stake in Backflip Studios, LLC (“Backflip”), a mobile game developer, based in Boulder, Colorado. The acquisition allows us to leverage Backflip’s existing and new intellectual properties while extending our own brands through mobile digital gaming. Finally, we license certain of our trademarks, characters and other property rights to third parties for use in connection with digital gaming, consumer promotions, and for the sale of non-competing toys and games and lifestyle products, or in certain situations, to utilize them for toy products where we consider the out-licensing of brands to be more effective.  

As we seek to grow our business in entertainment, licensing and digital gaming, we will continue to evaluate strategic alliances, acquisitions and investments, like Hasbro Studios, the Network and Backflip, which may complement our current product offerings, allow us entry into an area which is adjacent or complementary to our toy and game business, or allow us to further develop awareness of our brands and expand the ability of consumers to experience our brands in different forms and formats.  

Product Categories  

Our brand blueprint focuses on reinforcing storylines associated with our brands through several outlets, including television, motion pictures and digital media. Digital media encompasses digital gaming applications and the creation of digital environments for analog products through the use of complementary digital applications and websites which extend storylines and enhance play. While certain media-based entertainment benefit only one particular product category, others, specifically major motion pictures, can impact more than one product category.  

2  

Table of Contents 

 During 2014, the Company released products based on the theatrical release of TRANSFORMERS: AGE OF EXTINCTION from Paramount Pictures as well as three theatrical releases based on MARVEL properties, CAPTAIN AMERICA: THE WINTER SOLDIER, THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN 2, and GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY. In 2015, the Company anticipates product offerings based on the following planned theatrical releases: AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON from Marvel Studios, STAR WARS: THE FORCE AWAKENS from Lucasfilm Ltd. and JURASSIC WORLD from Universal Pictures.  

We market our brands under the following primary product categories: (1) boys; (2) games; (3) girls; and (4) preschool toys. Descriptions of these product categories are as follows:  

Boys’ franchise brands include the NERF line of sports and action products and TRANSFORMERS action figures and accessories. Our boys’ category also includes SUPER SOAKER water blasters, G.I. JOE action figures and accessories and entertainment-based licensed products based on popular movie, television and comic book characters, such as MARVEL and STAR WARS toys and accessories. In 2014, the TRANSFORMERS brand was supported by the major motion picture release of TRANSFORMERS: AGE OF EXTINCTION as well as an animated television series produced by Hasbro Studios which was distributed on a global basis. MARVEL products, particularly those based on CAPTAIN AMERICA and SPIDER-MAN, were supported by the 2014 major motion picture releases of CAPTAIN AMERICA: THE WINTER SOLDIER and THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN 2, respectively. MARVEL products were also supported by the re-introduction of archived MARVEL characters with the 2014 major motion picture release of GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY. AVENGERS, SPIDER-MAN and STAR WARS products were also each supported by animated television series produced and distributed by third parties in 2014 and 2013. In 2015, the Company expects to market products supported by the following major motion picture releases: AVENGERS: AGE OF ULTRON, STAR WARS: THE FORCE AWAKENS and JURASSIC WORLD. In addition to marketing and developing action figures and accessories for traditional play, the Company also develops and markets products designed for collectors, which has been a key component of the success of the TRANSFORMERS, STAR WARS and MARVEL brands.  

Our games category includes an assortment of well-known brands delivered on various platforms, including board, off-the-board, digital, trading card and role-playing games. Franchise brands included MAGIC: THE GATHERING and MONOPOLY, and other major game brands included BATTLESHIP, BOP-IT, CANDYLAND, CLUE, CONNECT 4, CRANIUM, DUEL MASTERS, ELEFUN & FRIENDS, GAME OF LIFE, JENGA, OPERATION, RISK, SORRY!, TRIVIAL PURSUIT, TWISTER, and YAHTZEE. In recent years, we have focused on investing more heavily in fewer initiatives and have centralized our games marketing and development. In conjunction with our focus on fewer initiatives, we focus on brands that can capitalize on the trend-driven nature of the gaming industry. We also continue to evolve our approach to gaming using consumer insights and offering gaming experiences relevant to consumer demand for face-to-face, off-the-board and other game play including the launch of new play patterns. In 2014, the game brands we focused on included SIMON, with the introduction of SIMON SWIPE, as well as THE GAME OF LIFE, TROUBLE, OPERATION, ELEFUN & FRIENDS, CONNECT 4 and CHUTES & LADDERS. Furthermore, and as mentioned above, in July 2013, we acquired a 70% majority stake in Backflip to expand our expertise and product offerings in the mobile gaming arena. Backflip’s game titles are distributed primarily through the Apple APP Store and GOOGLE Play Store. In 2014, Backflip game titles included DWARVEN DEN, PLUNDERNAUTS, SPELLFALL and SEABEARD. In 2015 and beyond, Backflip plans to introduce additional game titles based on Hasbro brands.  

In our girls’ category, we seek to provide a variety of contemporary and engaging play experiences. Girls’ franchise brands include LITTLEST PET SHOP, MY LITTLE PONY, NERF REBELLE and PLAY-DOH DOH VINCI. Girls’ challenger brands include BABY ALIVE, EASY BAKE, FURBY and FURREAL FRIENDS. The LITTLEST PET SHOP and MY LITTLE PONY brands were supported by television programming produced by Hasbro Studios in 2013 and 2014 and will continue to be supported by television programming in future years. These brands are further supported by digital gaming with licensed partners. In 2013, the MY LITTLE PONY brand was re-imagined with the successful launch of the brand extension MY LITTLE PONY EQUESTRIA GIRLS product line which was supported by the release of animated movies in 2013 and 2014. 2013 also marked expansion of our NERF brand into the girls’ category with the introduction of the popular NERF REBELLE  

3  

Table of Contents 

 brand, a line of action performance products marketed to girls. In 2014, we launched DOH VINCI, a new line of arts and crafts products, in the second quarter and re-launched our LITTLEST PET SHOP brand in the fourth quarter. Additionally, in September 2014, the Company’s strategic merchandising relationship with The Walt Disney Company expanded to include additional future product offerings, specifically small and fashion dolls, based on the DISNEY PRINCESS and FROZEN brands, commencing in 2016 and products based on the DISNEY DESCENDANTS brand beginning in 2015.  

Our preschool category encompasses a range of products for infants and preschoolers in various stages of development. In the preschool category, we are focused on our franchise brands and story-led initiatives where we believe we can differentiate our offerings and deliver higher profitability. Franchise brand offerings in the preschool category include PLAY-DOH and TRANSFORMERS. PLAY-DOH products include modeling compound and playsets. Other major preschool brands include PLAYSKOOL as well as products based on the MARVEL, STAR WARS and SESAME STREET portfolios of characters. MARVEL, STAR WARS and TRANSFORMERS RESCUE BOTS action figures and playsets included in the preschool category are marketed under the brand name PLAYSKOOL HEROES and are supported by television programming and theatrical entertainment. Our PLAYSKOOL brand also includes well-known core products such as MR. POTATO HEAD, SIT ‘N SPIN and GLOWORM, along with a line of infant toys including STEP START WALK’ N RIDE and ELEFUN BUSY BALL POPPER. In 2015, the Company plans to introduce a line of MY LITTLE PONY preschool products.  

Segments  

Organizationally, our three principal segments are U.S. and Canada, International and Entertainment and Licensing. The U.S. and Canada and International segments engage in the marketing and selling of various toy and game products described above. Our toy and game products are primarily developed by cross-functional teams, including members of our global development and global marketing groups, which also establish brand direction and assist the segments in establishing certain local marketing programs. The costs of these groups are allocated to the principal segments. Our U.S. and Canada segment covers the United States and Canada while the International segment primarily includes Europe, the Asia Pacific region and Latin and South America. The Entertainment and Licensing segment engages in the out-licensing of our trademarks, characters and other brand and intellectual property rights to third parties for non-competing products and also conducts our movie, television and digital gaming entertainment operations, including the operations of Hasbro Studios and Backflip. Our Global Operations segment is responsible for arranging product manufacturing and sourcing for the U.S. and Canada and International segments. Financial information with respect to our segments and geographic areas is included in note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

The Company’s strategy focuses on re-imagining, re-inventing, and re-igniting its existing brands, and imagining, inventing, and igniting new brands, globally through the development and marketing of innovative toy and game products, providing immersive entertainment experiences for our consumers, and expansion of our brands into other consumer products through broad licensing programs, including digital media and lifestyle products, all supported by storytelling and consumer insights. The following is a discussion of each segment.  

U.S. and Canada  

This segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories in the United States and Canada. The U.S. and Canada segment’s strategy is based on promoting our brands through innovation and reinvention of toys and games. This is accomplished through introducing new products and initiatives driven by consumer and marketplace insights and leveraging opportunistic toy and game lines and licenses. This strategy leverages efforts to increase consumer awareness of the Company’s brands through entertainment experiences, including motion pictures and television programming.  

International  

The International segment engages in the marketing and sale of our product categories to retailers and wholesalers in most countries in Europe, Latin and South America, and the Asia Pacific region and through  

4  

Table of Contents 

 distributors in those countries where we have no direct presence. We have offices in more than 35 countries contributing to sales in more than 120 countries. In addition to growing brands and leveraging opportunistic toy lines and licenses, we seek to grow our international business by continuing to expand into emerging markets in Eastern Europe, Asia and Latin and South America. Emerging markets are an area of high priority for Hasbro as they offer greater opportunities for revenue growth than developed markets. Key emerging markets include Russia, Brazil and the People’s Republic of China (“China”). In 2014, 2013 and 2012, net revenues in emerging markets grew 20%, 25% and 16%, respectively, from the prior years and represented more than 15% of our total consolidated net revenues in 2014.  

Entertainment and Licensing  

Our Entertainment and Licensing segment includes our lifestyle licensing, digital gaming, television and movie entertainment operations. Our lifestyle licensing category seeks to promote our brands through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to third parties for promotional and merchandising uses in businesses which do not compete directly with our own product offerings, such as apparel, publishing, home goods and electronics, or in certain situations, to utilize them for toy products where we consider the out-licensing of brands to be more effective.  

Our digital gaming business seeks to promote our brands largely through the out-licensing of our intellectual properties to a number of partners who develop and offer digital games for play on mobile devices, personal computers, and video game consoles based on those brands. In support of this strategy, in 2013, the Company acquired a 70% majority ownership in Backflip Studios, LLC (“Backflip”), a mobile game developer based in Boulder, Colorado, as we seek to complement out-licensing of certain of our brands with the development of internal digital gaming resources. Backflip’s product offerings include games for tablets and mobile devices including DRAGONVALE, NINJUMP and PAPER TOSS. New game brands released during 2014 include DWARVEN DEN, PLUNDERNAUTS, SPELLFALL and SEABEARD. Backflip also introduced two game brands under Hasbro brands, specifically NERFHOOPS and TWISTER TAP. In 2015 and beyond, Backflip intends to continue focusing on its existing game titles, particularly DRAGONVALE, and to launch new games, including more game offerings based on Hasbro brands. To further extend its brands into digital media and gaming, the Company also out-licenses its properties to a number of partners who develop and offer digital games and other gaming experiences based on those brands. One example of these digital gaming relationships is the Company’s agreement with Electronic Arts Inc. (“EA”) under which EA has the rights to develop several of Hasbro’s best-selling gaming brands for mobile platforms globally. Similarly, the Company has an agreement with Activision under which Activision offers digital games based on the TRANSFORMERS brand and with Ubisoft under which Ubisoft offers console games based on MONOPOLY, SCRABBLE, TRIVIAL PURSUIT and others. Lastly, we also license our brands to third parties engaged in other forms of gaming, including Scientific Games Corporation.  

To support our strategic objective of further developing our brands through television entertainment, we operate a wholly-owned studio, Hasbro Studios, which produces storytelling across mediums. This includes television programming primarily based on our brands, which is distributed on a global basis. In addition, Hasbro Studios has a coordinated development process which aligns with our 40% interest in a joint venture with Discovery that operates Discovery Family Channel, a cable television network in the United States. Discovery Family Channel is dedicated to providing high-quality children’s and family entertainment.  

In addition to the above, we also seek to promote and leverage our brands through major motion pictures. In October 2015, the Company plans to re-ignite an archived brand with the expected release of JEM AND THE HOLOGRAMS by Hasbro’s own, recently established film label, Allspark Pictures, in partnership with Universal Studios. In 2014, Paramount Pictures released the fourth major motion picture based on the TRANSFORMERS brand, TRANSFORMERS: AGE OF EXTINCTION, and Universal Pictures released a second motion picture based on a games brand, OUIJA. In 2013, G.I. JOE: RETALIATION, the second major motion picture based on the G.I. JOE brand, was released by Paramount Pictures. In May 2012, BATTLESHIP was released by Universal Pictures.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Major motion pictures and television programming based on our owned and controlled brands provide both storytelling and the ability for our consumers to experience these properties in a different format, which we believe can result in increased product sales, royalty revenues, and overall brand awareness. To a lesser extent, we can also earn revenue from our participation in the financial results of motion pictures and related home entertainment releases and through the distribution of television programming. Revenue from toy and game product sales is a component of the U.S. and Canada and International segments, while royalty revenues, including revenues earned from movies and television programming, is included in the Entertainment and Licensing segment.  

Global Operations  

In our Global Operations segment, we manufacture and source production of substantially all of our toy and game products. The Company owns and operates manufacturing facilities in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland which predominantly produce game products. Sourcing of our other production is done through unrelated third party manufacturers in various Far East countries, principally China, using a Hong Kong based wholly-owned subsidiary operation for quality control and order coordination purposes. See “Manufacturing and Importing” below for more details concerning overseas manufacturing and sourcing.  

Other Information  

To further extend our range of products in the various segments of our business, we sell a portion of our toy and game products to retailers on a direct import basis from the Far East. These sales are reflected in the revenue of the related segment where the customer is geographically located.  

Certain of our products are licensed to other companies for sale in selected countries where we do not otherwise have a direct business presence.  

Each of our four product categories, namely boys, games, girls and preschool, generate greater than 10% of our net revenues. For more information, including the amount of net revenues attributable to each of our four product categories, see note 18 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Working Capital Requirements  

Our working capital needs are financed primarily through cash generated from operations and, when necessary, proceeds from short-term borrowings. Our borrowings generally reach peak levels during the third or fourth quarter of each year. This corresponds to the time of year when our receivables also generally reach peak levels as part of the production and shipment of product in preparation for the holiday season. The strategy of retailers has generally been to make a higher percentage of their purchases of toy and game products within or close to the fourth quarter holiday consumer buying season, which includes Christmas. We expect that retailers will continue to follow this strategy. Our historical revenue pattern is one in which the second half of the year is more significant to our overall business than the first half. In 2014, the second half of the year accounted for approximately 65% of full year revenues with the third and fourth quarters accounting for 35% and 30% of full year net revenues, respectively.  

The toy and game business is also characterized by customer order patterns which vary from year to year largely because of differences each year in the degree of consumer acceptance of product lines, product availability, marketing strategies and inventory policies of retailers, the dates of theatrical releases of major motion pictures for which we offer products, and changes in overall economic conditions. As a result, comparisons of our unshipped orders on any date with those at the same date in a prior year are not necessarily indicative of our sales for that year. Moreover, quick response inventory management practices result in fewer orders being placed significantly in advance of shipment and more orders being placed for immediate delivery. Retailers generally time their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. Although the Company may receive orders from customers in advance, it is a general industry practice that these orders are subject to amendment or cancellation by customers prior to shipment and,  

6  

Table of Contents 

 as such, the Company does not believe that these unshipped orders, at any given date, are indicative of future sales. The types of programs that we plan to employ to promote sales in 2015 are substantially the same as those we employed in 2014 and in prior years.  

Historically, we commit to the majority of our inventory production and advertising and marketing expenditures for a given year prior to the peak fourth quarter retail selling season. Our accounts receivable increase during the third and fourth quarter as customers increase their purchases to meet expected consumer demand in the holiday season. Due to the concentrated timeframe of this selling period, payments for these accounts receivable are generally not due until later in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of the subsequent year. The timing difference between expenses paid and revenues collected sometimes makes it necessary for us to borrow varying amounts during the year. During 2014, we utilized cash from our operations, borrowings under our commercial paper program and uncommitted lines of credit as well as excess proceeds from the 2014 issuance of long-term debt to meet our cash flow requirements.  

Royalties and Product Development  

Our success is dependent on continuous innovation in our product and entertainment offerings, including both the continuing development of new brands and products and the redesign of existing products to drive consumer interest and market acceptance. Our toy and game products are developed by a global development group and the costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. In 2014, 2013 and 2012, we incurred expenses of $222,556, $207,591 and $201,197, respectively, on activities relating to the development, design and engineering of new products and their packaging (including products brought to us by independent designers) and on the improvement or modification of ongoing products. Much of this work is performed by our internal staff of designers, artists, model makers and engineers.  

In addition to the design and development work performed by our own staff, we deal with a number of independent toy and game designers for whose designs and ideas we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Rights to such designs and ideas, when acquired by us, are usually exclusive and the agreements require us to pay the designer a royalty on our net sales of the item. These designer royalty agreements, in some cases, also provide for advance royalties and minimum guarantees.  

We also produce a number of toys and games under trademarks and copyrights utilizing the names or likenesses of characters from movies, television shows and other entertainment media, for whose rights we compete with other toy and game manufacturers. Licensing fees for these rights are generally paid as a royalty on our net sales of the item. Licenses for the use of characters are generally exclusive for specific products or product lines in specified territories. In many instances, advance royalties and minimum guarantees are required by these license agreements.  

In 2014, 2013 and 2012, we incurred $305,317, $338,919 and $302,066, respectively, of royalty expense. In 2013, royalty expense included $63,801 related to the settlement of an arbitration award for a dispute between the Company and an inventor as well as the amendment of its license agreement with Zynga. Our royalty expense in any given year may also vary depending upon the timing of movie releases and other entertainment media.  

Marketing and Sales  

As we are focused on re-imagining, re-inventing and re-igniting our many brands and imagining, inventing and igniting new brands, we have a global marketing function which establishes brand direction and messaging, as well as assists the selling entities in establishing certain local marketing programs. This global marketing group works cross-functionally with the global development function to deliver a unified product and message. The costs of this group are allocated to the selling entities which comprise our principal operating segments. We also maintain sales and marketing functions in our selling entities which are responsible for local market activities and execution. Our products are sold globally to a broad spectrum of customers, including wholesalers, distributors, chain stores, discount stores, drug stores, mail order houses, catalog stores, department stores and other traditional retailers, large and small, as well as internet-based “e-tailers.” Our own sales forces account for the majority of sales of our products. Remaining sales are generated by independent distributors who sell our  

7  

Table of Contents 

 products, for the most part, in areas of the world where we do not otherwise maintain a direct presence. While we have thousands of customers, the majority of our sales are to large chain stores, distributors and wholesalers. While this concentration of customers provides us with certain benefits, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this also creates additional risks to our business associated with a major customer having financial difficulties or reducing its business with us. In addition, customer concentration may decrease the prices we are able to obtain for some of our products and reduce the number of products we would otherwise be able to bring to market. During 2014, net revenues from our three largest customers, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Target Corporation represented 16%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of consolidated global net revenues, and sales to our top five customers, including Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us, Inc. and Target, accounted for approximately 38% of our consolidated global net revenues. In the U.S. and Canada segment, approximately 59% of our net revenues were derived from these top three customers.  

We advertise many of our toy and game products extensively on television. In addition, we engage in digital marketing and advertising for our brands. Generally our advertising highlights selected items in our various product groups in a manner designed to promote the sale of not only the selected item, but also other items we offer in those product groups as well. Hasbro Studios produces entertainment based primarily on our brands which appears on Discovery Family Channel in the U.S., other major networks internationally and on various other digital platforms, such as Netflix and iTunes. Beginning in 2015, Hasbro Studios will begin distributing certain programming domestically to other outlets, including Cartoon Network. We introduce many of our new products to major customers during the year prior to the year of introduction of such products for retail sale. In addition, we showcase certain of our new products in New York City at the time of the American International Toy Fair in February, as well as at other international toy shows, including in Hong Kong and Nuremburg, Germany. In 2014, 2013 and 2012, we incurred $420,256, $398,098 and $422,239, respectively, in expense related to advertising and promotion programs. Certain entertainment-based products, such as products based on major motion pictures, generally do not require the same level of advertising that we spend on other non-entertainment based products.  

Manufacturing and Importing  

During 2014 substantially all of our products were manufactured in third party facilities in the Far East, primarily China, as well as in our two owned facilities located in East Longmeadow, Massachusetts and Waterford, Ireland.  

Most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also make use of electronic components. All of these materials are readily available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. There are certain chemicals (including phthalates and BPA) that national, state and local governments have restricted or are seeking to restrict or limit the use of; however, we do not believe these restrictions have or will materially impact our business. We generally enter into agreements with suppliers at the beginning of a fiscal year that establish prices for that year. However, significant volatility in the prices of any of these materials may require renegotiation with our suppliers during the year. Our manufacturing processes and those of our vendors include injection molding, blow molding, spray painting, printing, box making and assembly. The countries of the Far East, particularly China, constitute the largest manufacturing center of toys in the world and the substantial majority of our toy products are manufactured in China. The 1996 implementation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade reduced or eliminated customs duties on many of the products imported by us. We purchase most of our raw materials and component parts used in our owned manufacturing facilities from suppliers in the United States and certain other countries.  

We believe that the manufacturing capacity of our third party manufacturers, together with our own facilities, as well as the supply of components, accessories and completed products which we purchase from unaffiliated manufacturers, are adequate to meet the anticipated demand in 2015 for our products. Our reliance on designated external sources of manufacturing could be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply for our products, should such changes be necessary or desirable. However, if we were to be prevented from obtaining products from a substantial number of our current Far East suppliers due to political, labor or  

8  

Table of Contents 

 other factors beyond our control, our operations and our ability to obtain products would be severely disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured and production shifted to those new sources. The imposition of trade sanctions by the United States or the European Union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of “normal trade relations” status with, China, or other factors which increase the cost of manufacturing in China, such as higher Chinese labor costs or an appreciation in the Chinese Yuan, could significantly disrupt our operations and/or significantly increase the cost of the products which are manufactured in China and imported into other markets.  

Competition  

We are a worldwide leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of toys and games and other entertainment offerings, but our business is highly competitive. We compete with several large toy and game companies in our product categories, as well as many smaller United States and international toy and game designers, manufacturers and marketers. We also compete with companies that offer branded entertainment focused on children and their families. Competition is based primarily on meeting consumer entertainment preferences and on the quality and play value of our products. To a lesser extent, competition is also based on product pricing. In entertainment, Hasbro Studios and Discovery Family Channel compete with other children’s television networks and entertainment producers, such as Nickelodeon, Cartoon Network and Disney Channel, for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution.  

In addition to contending with competition from other toy and game and branded-play entertainment companies, we contend with the phenomenon that children are increasingly sophisticated and have been moving away from traditional toys and games at a younger age. Thereby, the variety of product and entertainment offerings available for children has expanded and product life cycles have shrunk as children move on to more sophisticated offerings at younger ages. This has been referred to as “children getting older younger” but may also be referred to as developmental compression. As a result, our products not only compete with those offerings produced by other toy and game manufacturers, we also compete, particularly in meeting the demands of older children, with entertainment offerings of many technology companies, such as makers of tablets, mobile devices, video games and other consumer electronic products.  

The volatility in consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment and low barriers to entry as well as the emergence of new technologies continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups to develop products that compete with our entertainment and toy and game offerings.  

Employees  

At December 28, 2014, we employed approximately 5,200 persons worldwide, approximately 2,700 of whom were located in the United States.  

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents  

We seek to protect our products, for the most part, and in as many countries as practical, through registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to the extent that such protection is available, cost effective, and meaningful. The loss of such rights concerning any particular product is unlikely to result in significant harm to our business, although the loss of such protection for a number of significant items might have such an effect.  

Government Regulation  

Our toy and game products sold in the United States are subject to the provisions of The Consumer Product Safety Act, as amended by the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008, (as amended, the “CPSA”), The Federal Hazardous Substances Act (the “FHSA”), The Flammable Fabrics Act (the “FFA”), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. In addition, a few of our products, such as the food mixes for our EASY-BAKE ovens, are also subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration.  

The CPSA empowers the Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “CPSC”) to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform safety standards. The CPSC has the authority to seek to declare a product “a banned hazardous  

9  

Table of Contents 

 substance” under the CPSA and to ban it from commerce. The CPSC can file an action to seize and condemn an “imminently hazardous consumer product” under the CPSA and may also order equitable remedies such as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. The FHSA provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned.  

Consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the United States and in many international markets including Canada, Australia and Europe. We utilize independent third party laboratories that employ testing and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the CPSA, the FHSA, the FFA, other applicable domestic and international product standards, and our own standards. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that our products are or will be hazard free. Any material product recall or other safety issue impacting our product could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, depending on the product and scope of the recall, could damage our reputation and could negatively affect sales of our other products as well.  

The Children’s Television Act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the United States Federal Communications Commission, the rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, as well as the laws of certain other countries, also place limitations on television commercials during children’s programming and on advertising in other forms to children, and on the collection of information from children, such as restrictions on collecting information from children under the age of thirteen subject to the provisions of the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act.  

We maintain programs to comply with various United States federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, health, safety and other matters.  

Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas  

The information required by this item is included in note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this report and is incorporated herein by reference.  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The following persons are the executive officers of the Company. Such executive officers are elected annually. The position(s) and office(s) listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s) held by such persons with the Company. The persons listed below generally also serve as officers and directors of certain of the Company’s various subsidiaries at the request and convenience of the Company.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer from 2006 to 2008.  

10  

Table of Contents 

 (2) Prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer from 2009 to 2013; prior thereto, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer from 2008 to 2009. Mr. Hargreaves is retiring as an officer and employee of the Company effective at the end of February 2015.  

 (3) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2009 to 2013; prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate Finance from 2008 to 2009.  

 (4) Prior thereto, Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer from 2013 to 2014; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Global Chief Development Officer from 2008 to 2013.  

 (5) Prior thereto, Senior Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary from 2010 to 2014; prior thereto, Vice President, Employment, Litigation and Compliance since 2006.  

 (6) Prior thereto, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer from 2013 to 2014; prior thereto, Senior Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer from 2008 to 2013.  

 (7) Prior thereto, President, North America from 2012 to 2013; prior thereto, President, Latin America, Asia Pacific and Emerging Markets from 2006 to 2012.  

Availability of Information  

Our internet address is http://www.hasbro.com. We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, available free of charge on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.