Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Historical results and percentage relationships set forth in the Consolidated Statements of Operations contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements, including trends which might appear, should not be taken as indicative of future operations. 

Executive Summary 

Kimco Realty Corporation is one of the nation’s largest publicly-traded owners and operators of neighborhood and community shopping centers. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had interests in 951 shopping center properties (the “Combined Shopping Center Portfolio”) aggregating 138.0 million square feet of gross leasable area (“GLA”) and 906 other property interests, primarily through the Company’s preferred equity investments, other real estate investments and non-retail properties, totaling approximately 34.4 million square feet of GLA, for a grand total of 1,857 properties aggregating 172.4 million square feet of GLA, located in 44 states, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Chile, Brazil and Peru. 

The Company is self-administered and self-managed through present management, which has owned and managed neighborhood and community shopping centers for over 50 years. The executive officers are engaged in the day-to-day management and operation of real estate exclusively with the Company, with nearly all operating functions, including leasing, asset management, maintenance, construction, legal, finance and accounting, administered by the Company. 

The Company’s vision is to be the premier owner and operator of shopping centers with its core business operations focusing on owning and operating neighborhood and community shopping centers through investments in North America. This vision will entail a shift away from non-retail assets that the Company currently holds. These investments include non-retail preferred equity investments, marketable securities, mortgages on non-retail properties and several urban mixed-use properties. The Company’s plan is to sell its non-retail assets and investments, realizing that the sale of these assets will be over a period of time given the current market conditions. If the Company accepts sales prices for these non-retail assets which are less than their net carrying values, the Company would be required to take impairment charges. In order to execute the Company’s vision, the Company’s strategy is to continue to strengthen its balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts, providing it the necessary flexibility to invest opportunistically and selectively, primarily focusing on neighborhood and community shopping centers. In addition, the Company continues to be committed to broadening its institutional management business by forming joint ventures with high quality domestic and foreign institutional partners for the purpose of investing in neighborhood and community shopping centers. 

The following highlights the Company’s significant transactions, events and results that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010: 

Portfolio Information: 

· 

Occupancy rose from 92.6% at December 31, 2009 to 93.0 % at December 31, 2010 in the Combined Shopping Center Portfolio. 

· 

Occupancy year over year remained at 92.4% for the U.S. shopping center combined. 

· 

Executed 2,703 leases, renewals and options totaling over 8.2 million square feet in the Combined Shopping Center Portfolio. 

Acquisition Activity: 

· 

Acquired 10 shopping center properties, an additional joint venture interest and two land parcels comprising an aggregate 1.7 million square feet of GLA, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $251.3 million including the assumption of approximately $138.8 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering seven of the properties. 

· 

Established four new unconsolidated joint ventures that acquired approximately $1.0 billion in assets. 

Disposition Activity: 

· 

During 2010, the Company monetized non-retail assets of approximately $130.0 million and reduced its non-retail book values by approximately $80.0 million. 

· 

Included in the monetization above are the disposition of (i) three properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $23.8 million and (ii) five properties from a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment for a sales price of approximately $40.8 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate profit participation of approximately $20.8 million, before income tax of approximately $1.0 million and noncontrolling interest of approximately $4.9 million.  

· 

Also included in the monetization above is the Company’s receipt of approximately $34.7 million in distributions from the Albertson’s joint venture, in which the Company recognized approximately $21.2 million of equity in income primarily from the joint ventures’ sale of 23 properties. 

16 

· 

Additionally, during 2010, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, nine land parcels for an aggregate sales price of approximately $25.6 million which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $3.4 million.  

· 

Additionally, during 2010, the Company (i) sold seven operating properties, which were previously consolidated, to two new joint ventures in which the Company holds noncontrolling equity interests for an aggregate sales price of approximately $438.1 million including the assignment of $159.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties and (ii) disposed of, in separate transactions, seven operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $100.5 million including the assignment of $81.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties. These transactions resulted in aggregate gains of approximately $4.4 million and aggregate losses/impairments of approximately $5.0 million. 

Capital Activity (for additional details see Liquidity and Capital Resources below): 

· 

Issued $150 million in Canadian denominated eight-year unsecured notes priced at 5.99%. 

· 

Repaid the remaining $287.5 million guaranteed credit facility related to a joint venture in which the Company has a 15% noncontrolling ownership interest. 

· 

Issued $175 million of 6.90% cumulative redeemable preferred stock. 

· 

Issued a $300 million seven and a half year unsecured bond priced at 4.3%. 

· 

Total year over year reduction in debt of approximately $375.4 million. 

Impairments: 

· 

The U.S. economic and market conditions stabilized during 2010 and capitalization rates, discount rates and vacancies had improved; however, overall declines in market conditions continued to have a negative effect on certain transactional activity as it related to select real estate assets and certain marketable securities. As such, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $39.1 million (including approximately $5.2 million which is classified within discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interests, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, investments in other real estate joint ventures, investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate under development and marketable securities and other investments. Potential future adverse market and economic conditions could cause the Company to recognize additional impairments in the future (see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financi al Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

· 

In addition to the impairment charges above, various unconsolidated joint ventures in which the Company holds noncontrolling interests recognized impairment charges relating to certain properties during 2010. The Company’s share of these charges was approximately $28.3 million, before an income tax benefit of approximately $3.2 million. These impairment charges are included in Equity in income of joint ventures, net in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations (see Notes 2 and 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

Critical Accounting Policies 

The Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and all entities in which the Company has a controlling interest, including where the Company has been determined to be a primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity in accordance with the consolidation guidance of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”). The Company applies these provisions to each of its joint venture investments to determine whether the cost, equity or consolidation method of accounting is appropriate. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. In preparing these financ ial statements, management has made its best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on, but not limited to, historical results, industry standards and current economic conditions, giving due consideration to materiality. The most significant assumptions and estimates relate to revenue recognition and the recoverability of trade accounts receivable, depreciable lives, valuation of real estate and intangible assets and liabilities, valuation of joint venture investments, marketable securities and other investments, realizability of deferred tax assets and uncertain tax positions. Application of these assumptions requires the exercise of judgment as to future uncertainties, and, as a result, actual results could materially differ from these estimates. 

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of its real estate properties, investments in joint ventures, marketable securities and other investments. The Company’s reported net earnings is directly affected by management’s estimate of impairments and/or valuation allowances. 

17 

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable 

Base rental revenues from rental property are recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the related leases. Certain of these leases also provide for percentage rents based upon the level of sales achieved by the lessee. These percentage rents are recorded once the required sales level is achieved. Operating expense reimbursements are recognized as earned. Rental income may also include payments received in connection with lease termination agreements. In addition, leases typically provide for reimbursement to the Company of common area maintenance, real estate taxes and other operating expenses.  

The Company makes estimates of the uncollectability of its accounts receivable related to base rents, straight-line rent, expense reimbursements and other revenues. The Company analyzes accounts receivable and historical bad debt levels, customer credit-worthiness and current economic trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. In addition, tenants in bankruptcy are analyzed and estimates are made in connection with the expected recovery of pre-petition and post-petition claims. The Company’s reported net earnings is directly affected by management’s estimate of the collectability of accounts receivable. 

Real Estate 

The Company’s investments in real estate properties are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred. Significant renovations and replacements, which improve and extend the life of the asset, are capitalized. 

Upon acquisition of real estate operating properties, the Company estimates the fair value of acquired tangible assets (consisting of land, building, building improvements and tenant improvements) and identified intangible assets and liabilities (consisting of above and below-market leases, in-place leases and tenant relationships), assumed debt and redeemable units issued at the date of acquisition, based on evaluation of information and estimates available at that date. Based on these estimates, the Company allocates the estimated fair value to the applicable assets and liabilities. Fair value is determined based on an exit price approach, which contemplates the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. If, up to one year from the acquisition date, information regarding fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is rece ived and estimates are refined, appropriate adjustments are made to the purchase price allocation on a retrospective basis. The Company expenses transaction costs associated with business combinations in the period incurred.  

Depreciation and amortization are provided on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: 

Buildings and building improvements 

15 to 50 years  

Fixtures, leasehold and tenant improvements 

Terms of leases or useful  

(including certain identified intangible assets) 

lives, whichever is shorter   

The Company is required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of its properties for purposes of determining the amount of depreciation to reflect on an annual basis with respect to those properties. These assessments have a direct impact on the Company’s net earnings. 

Real estate under development on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets represents ground-up development of neighborhood and community shopping center projects which may be subsequently sold upon completion or which the Company may hold as long-term investments. These assets are carried at cost. The cost of land and buildings under development includes specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved and other costs incurred during the period of development. The Company ceases cost capitalization when the property is held available for occupancy upon substantial completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from the completion of major construction activity. A gain on the sale of these assets is g enerally recognized using the full accrual method in accordance with the provisions of the FASB’s real estate sales guidance provided that various criteria relating to terms of the sale and subsequent involvement by the Company with the property are met. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may be impaired. A property value is considered impaired only if management’s estimate of current and projected operating cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) of the property over its remaining useful life is less than the net carrying value of the property. Such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors. To the extent impairment has occurred, the carrying value of the property would be adjusted to an amount to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

18 

When a real estate asset is identified by management as held-for-sale, the Company ceases depreciation of the asset and estimates the sales price of such asset net of selling costs. If, in management’s opinion, the net sales price of the asset is less than the net book value of such asset, an adjustment to the carrying value would be recorded to reflect the estimated fair value of the property. 

Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures 

The Company accounts for its investments in unconsolidated joint ventures under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant influence, but does not control, these entities. These investments are recorded initially at cost and are subsequently adjusted for cash contributions and distributions. Earnings for each investment are recognized in accordance with each respective investment agreement and, where applicable, are based upon an allocation of the investment’s net assets at book value as if the investment was hypothetically liquidated at the end of each reporting period. 

The Company’s joint ventures and other real estate investments primarily consist of co-investments with institutional and other joint venture partners in neighborhood and community shopping center properties, consistent with its core business. These joint ventures typically obtain non-recourse third-party financing on their property investments, thus contractually limiting the Company’s exposure to losses to the amount of its equity investment, and, due to the lender’s exposure to losses, a lender typically will require a minimum level of equity in order to mitigate its risk. The Company’s exposure to losses associated with its unconsolidated joint ventures is primarily limited to its carrying value in these investments. The Company, on a limited selective basis, obtained unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint ventur e partners for their proportionate amounts of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make.  

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the Company’s investments in unconsolidated joint ventures may be impaired. An investment’s value is impaired only if management’s estimate of the fair value of the investment is less than the carrying value of the investment and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the investment over the estimated fair value of the investment. 

The Company’s estimated fair values are based upon a discounted cash flow model for each specific property that includes all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and where applicable, any estimated debt premiums. Capitalization rates, discount rates and credit spreads utilized in these models are based upon rates that the Company believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for each respective property.  

Marketable Securities 

The Company classifies its existing marketable equity securities as available-for-sale in accordance with the FASB’s Investments-Debt and Equity Securities guidance. These securities are carried at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“OCI”). Gains or losses on securities sold are based on the specific identification method.  

All debt securities are generally classified as held-to-maturity because the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are stated at amortized cost, adjusted for any amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Debt securities which contain conversion features are generally classified as available-for-sale. These securities are carried at fair market value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders’ equity as a component of OCI. 

On a continuous basis, management assesses whether there are any indicators that the value of the Company’s marketable securities may be impaired. A marketable security is impaired if the fair value of the security is less than the carrying value of the security and such difference is deemed to be other-than-temporary. To the extent impairment has occurred, the loss shall be measured as the excess of the carrying amount of the security over the estimated fair value in the security.  

Realizability of Deferred Tax Assets and Uncertain Tax Positions 

The Company is subject to federal, state and local income taxes on the income from its activities relating to its TRS activities and subject to local taxes on certain non-U.S. investments. The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized based on future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the years in which temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in earnings in the period when the changes are enacted. 

19 

A reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance is required, if based on the evidence available, it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance should be sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. 

The Company considers all available evidence, both positive and negative, to determine whether, based on the weight of that evidence, a valuation allowance is needed. Information about an enterprise's current financial position and its results of operations for the current and preceding years is supplemented by all currently available information about future years.  

Future realization of the tax benefit of an existing deductible temporary difference or carryforward ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income of the appropriate character (for example, ordinary income or capital gain) within the carryback or carryforward period available under the tax law.  

The Company must use judgment in considering the relative impact of negative and positive evidence. The weight given to the potential effect of negative and positive evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. The more negative evidence that exists (a) the more positive evidence is necessary and (b) the more difficult it is to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed for some portion or all of the deferred tax asset. 

The Company believes, when evaluating deferred tax assets within its taxable REIT subsidiaries, special consideration should be given to the unique relationship between the Company as a REIT and its taxable REIT subsidiaries. This relationship exists primarily to protect the REIT’s qualification under the Code by permitting, within certain limits, the REIT to engage in certain business activities in which the REIT cannot directly participate. As such, the REIT controls which and when investments are held in, or distributed or sold from, its taxable REIT subsidiaries. This relationship distinguishes a REIT and taxable REIT subsidiary from an enterprise that operates as a single, consolidated corporate taxpayer.  

The Company primarily utilizes a twenty year projection of pre-tax book income and taxable income as positive evidence to overcome its significant negative evidence of a three-year cumulative pretax book loss. Although items of income and expense utilized in the projection are objectively verifiable there is also significant judgment used in determining the duration and timing of events that would impact the projection. Based upon the Company’s analysis of negative and positive evidence the Company will make a determination of the need for a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. If future income projections do not occur as forecasted, the Company will reevaluate the need for a valuation allowance. In addition, the Company can employ additional strategies to realize its deferred tax assets including transferring a greater portion of its property management business to the TRS, sale of certain built-in gain assets, and further reducing intercompany debt (see Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K).  

The Company recognizes and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions which requires significant judgment from management. Although the Company believes it has adequately reserved for any uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome of these matters will not be different. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in the Company’s income tax expense in the period in which a change is made, which could have a material impact on operating results (see Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). 

Results of Operations 

Comparison 2010 to 2009 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2010 and 2009, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 of $70.6 million, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009 and (ii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects, tenant buyouts and overall growth in the current portfolio, providing incremental revenues of approximately $9.5 million, for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, which was partially offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, primarily resulting from the sale of certain properties during 2010 and 2009. 

20 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2010 and 2009, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service, which resulted in lower capitalization of carry costs, partially offset by operating property dispositions during 2010 and 2009. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2010 and 2009, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service and (iii) tenant vacates, partially offset by certain operating property dispositions during 2010 and 2009. 

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $5.6 million to $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $15.0 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in interest income as a result of pay-downs and dispositions of mortgage receivables during 2010 and 2009. 

Management and other fee income decreased approximately $2.5 million to $39.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $42.4 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in property management fees of approximately $2.6 million from PL Retail, due to the Company’s acquisition of the remaining 85% ownership interest resulting in the Company’s consolidation of PL Retail in 2009, partially offset by an increase in other transaction related fees of approximately $0.1 million recognized during 2010.  

Interest, dividends and other investment income decreased approximately $11.8 million to $21.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $33.1 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a decrease in realized gains of approximately $5.2 million during 2010 resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during the corresponding period in 2009 as compared to 2010, (ii) a reduction in interest income of approximately $3.8 million due to repayments of notes in 2010 and 2009 and (iii) a decrease in interest and dividend income of approximately $1.9 million during 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, primarily resulting from the sale of investments in marketable securities during 2010 and 2009.  

Other (expense)/income, net changed approximately $9.9 million to an expense of approximately $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to income of approximately $5.6 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This change is primarily due to (i) a decrease in the fair value of an embedded derivative instrument of approximately $2.0 million relating to the convertible option of the Company’s investment in Valad notes, (ii) decreased gains from land sales of approximately $3.5 million, (iii) an increase in a legal settlement accrual of approximately $2.0 million relating to a previously sold ground-up development project and (iv) an increase in acquisition related costs of approximately $0.5 million. 

Interest expense increased approximately $18.4 million to $226.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $208.0 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This increase is due to higher average outstanding levels of debt during the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to 2009. 

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company incurred early extinguishment of debt charges aggregating approximately $10.8 million in connection with the optional make-whole provisions of notes that were repaid prior to maturity and prepayment penalties on five mortgages that the Company paid prior to their maturity. 

Income from other real estate investments increased approximately $7.1 million to $43.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $36.2 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This increase is primarily due to an increase in profit participation earned from capital transactions within the Company’s Preferred Equity Program during 2010 as compared to the corresponding period in 2009. 

During 2010, the Company disposed of a land parcel for a sales price of approximately $0.9 million resulting in a gain of approximately $0.4 million. Additionally, the Company recognized approximately $1.7 million in income on previously sold development properties during the year ended December 31, 2010.  

During 2009, the Company sold, in separate transactions, five out-parcels, four land parcels and three ground leases for aggregate proceeds of approximately $19.4 million. These transactions resulted in gains on sale of development properties of approximately $5.8 million, before income taxes of $2.3 million.  

During 2010, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $29.3 million (not including approximately $5.2 million which is included in discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, real estate under development, investments in other real estate investments and other investments. The Company’s estimated fair values relating to these impairment assessments were based upon estimated sales prices and discounted cash flow models that included all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period. These cash flows are comprised of unobservable inputs which include contractual rental revenues and forecasted rental revenues and expenses based upon market conditions and expectations for growth. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models were based upon observable rates that the Company believes to be within a reas onable range of current market rates for the respective properties. Based on these inputs, the Company determined that its valuation in these investments was classified within Level 3 of the FASB fair value hierarchy.  

21 

Additionally, during 2010, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $4.6 million due to the decline in value of certain marketable securities that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

During 2009, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $131.7 million (not including approximately $13.3 million of which is included in discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate under development and other real estate investments. The Company’s estimated fair values relating to these impairment assessments were based upon discounted cash flow models that included all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and where applicable, any estimated debt premiums. These cash flows are comprised of unobservable inputs which include contractual rental revenues and forecasted rental revenues and expenses based upon market conditions and expectations for growth. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models were based upon observable rates that the Compa ny believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective properties. Based on these inputs the Company determined that its valuation in these investments was classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Additionally, during 2009, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $30.1 million due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

(Provision)/benefit for income taxes changed by approximately $33.6 million to a provision of approximately $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to a benefit of approximately $30.1 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This change is primarily due to (i) a decrease in income tax benefit of approximately $22.7 million related to impairments taken during the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, (ii) an increase in foreign taxes of approximately $6.8 million primarily resulting from an overall increase in income from foreign investments and (iii) an increase in the tax provision expense of approximately $6.8 million relating to an increase in equity income recognized in connection with the Albertson’s investment during the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009, partially offset by (iv) a decrease in the income tax provision expense of appro ximately $1.4 million in connection with gains on sale of development properties during 2010, as compared to 2009.  

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net increased approximately $49.4 million to $55.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to $6.3 million for the corresponding period in 2009. This increase is primarily the result of a (i) the recognition of approximately $21.2 million of equity in income from the Albertson’s joint venture during 2010, as compared to $3.0 million of equity in income recognized during 2009, primarily resulting from the sale of properties in the joint venture, (ii) an increase in equity in income of approximately $5.9 million from the Company’s joint venture investments in Canada primarily resulting from the amendment and restructuring of two retail property preferred equity investments into two pari passu joint venture investments during 2010, (iii) the recognition of approximately $8.0 million in income resulting from cash distributions received in excess of the Company’s carrying value of its investment in an unconsolidated limited liability partnership for the year ended December 31, 2010 and (iv) decrease in impairment charges of approximately $15.0 million resulting from fewer impairment charges recognized against certain joint venture properties during 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009. 

During 2010, the Company (i) sold seven operating properties, which were previously consolidated, to two new joint ventures in which the Company holds noncontrolling equity interests for an aggregate sales price of approximately $438.1 million including the assignment of $159.9 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering three of the properties and (ii) disposed of, in separate transactions, seven operating properties for an aggregate sales price of approximately $100.5 million including the assignment of $81.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering one of the properties. These transactions resulted in aggregate gains of approximately $4.4 million and aggregate losses/impairments of approximately $5.0 million. 

Additionally, during 2010, the Company disposed of (i) three properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $23.8 million and (ii) five properties from a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment for a sales price of approximately $40.8 million. These transactions resulted in an aggregate profit participation of approximately $20.8 million, before income tax of approximately $1.0 million and noncontrolling interest of approximately $4.9 million. This profit participation has been recorded as Income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties, net of tax in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

During 2009, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, portions of six operating properties and one land parcel for an aggregate sales price of approximately $28.9 million. These transactions resulted in the Company’s recognition of an aggregate net gain of approximately $4.1 million, net of income tax of $0.2 million. 

Net income attributable to the Company for 2010 was $142.9 million. Net loss attributable to the Company for 2009 was $3.9 million. On a diluted per share basis, net income attributable to the Company was $0.22 for 2010, as compared to net loss of $0.15 for 2009. These changes are primarily attributable to (i) a decrease in impairment charges of approximately $112.1 million, net of income taxes and noncontrolling interests, (ii) an overall net increase in Equity in income of joint ventures primarily due to a decrease in impairment charges of approximately $15.0 million during 2010, as compared to 2009 and an increase in equity in income from the  

22 

Albertson’s joint venture, (iii) an increase in Income from other real estate investments primarily due to an increase of approximately $7.2 million from the Company’s Preferred Equity program, (iv) additional incremental earnings due to the acquisitions of operating properties during 2010 and 2009, partially offset by (v) the recognition of approximately $10.8 million in early extinguishment of debt charges.  

Comparison 2009 to 2008 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) 

Revenues from rental property increased primarily from the combined effect of (i) the acquisition of operating properties during 2009 and 2008, providing incremental revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 of $29.3 million, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008 and (ii) the completion of certain development and redevelopment projects and tenant buyouts providing incremental revenues of approximately $7.4 million, for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, which was partially offset by (iii) a decrease in revenues of approximately $14.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, primarily resulting from the sale of certain properties during 2009 and 2008, and (iv) an overall occupancy decrease in the consolidated shopping center portfolio from 93.1% at December 31, 2008 to 92.2% at December 31, 2009. 

(2) 

Rental property expenses increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2009 and 2008, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service, which resulted in lower capitalization of carry costs, and (iii) an increase in snow removal costs during 2009 as compared to 2008, partially offset by (iv) a decrease in insurance costs during 2009 as compared to 2008 and (v) operating property dispositions during 2009 and 2008. 

(3) 

Depreciation and amortization increased primarily due to (i) operating property acquisitions during 2008 and 2009, (ii) the placement of certain development properties into service and (iii) tenant vacates, partially offset by operating property dispositions during 2009 and 2008. 

Mortgage and other financing income decreased $3.3 million to $15.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $18.3 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in interest income during 2009 resulting from the repayment of certain mortgage receivables during 2009 and 2008. 

Management and other fee income decreased approximately $5.1 million to $42.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $47.6 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to a decrease in property management fees of approximately $5.8 million for 2009, due to lower revenues attributable to lower occupancy and the sale of certain properties during 2009 and 2008, partially offset by an increase in other transaction related fees of approximately $0.6 million recognized during 2009.  

General and administrative expenses decreased approximately $6.9 million to $108.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $114.9 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to a reduction in force during 2009 as a result of implementing the Company’s core business strategy of focusing on owning and operating shopping centers and a shift away from certain non-retail assets along with a lack of transactional activity.  

Interest, dividends and other investment income decreased approximately $23.0 million to $33.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $56.1 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a decrease in realized gains of approximately $8.2 million during 2009 resulting from the sale of certain marketable securities during the corresponding period in 2008 as compared to 2009, and (ii) a decrease in interest and dividend income of approximately $14.8 million during 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, primarily resulting from the sale of investments in marketable securities and reductions in dividends declared from certain marketable securities during 2009 and 2008.  

Other (expense)/income, net changed approximately $5.2 million to income of approximately $5.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to income of approximately $0.4 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This change is primarily due to (i) increased gains from land sales of approximately $5.9 million and (ii) an increase in the fair value of an embedded derivative instrument relating to the convertible option of the Valad notes of approximately $9.8 million, partially offset by, (iii) the receipt of fewer shares of Sears Holding Corp. common stock received as partial settlement of Kmart pre-petition claims during 2008 and (iv) a decrease in franchise taxes.  

Interest expense decreased approximately $4.2 million to $208.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $212.2 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is due to lower outstanding levels of debt during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to 2008. 

23 

Income from other real estate investments decreased $51.4 million to $36.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $87.6 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a decrease from the Company’s Preferred Equity Program of approximately $36.4 million in contributed income during 2009, including a decrease of approximately $22.1 million in profit participation earned from capital transactions during 2009 as compared to the corresponding period in 2008 and (ii) a gain of approximately $7.2 million from the sale of the Company’s interest in a real estate company located in Mexico during 2008.  

During 2009, the Company sold, in separate transactions, five out-parcels, four land parcels and three ground leases for aggregate proceeds of approximately $19.4 million. These transactions resulted in gains on sale of development properties of approximately $5.8 million, before income taxes of $2.3 million.  

During 2008, the Company sold, in separate transactions, (i) two completed merchant building projects, (ii) 21 out-parcels, (iii) a partial sale of one project and (iv) a partnership interest in one project for aggregate proceeds of approximately $73.5 million and received approximately $4.1 million of proceeds from completed earn-out requirements on three previously sold merchant building projects. These sales resulted in gains of approximately $36.6 million, before income taxes of $14.6 million.  

During 2009, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $131.7 million (not including approximately $13.3 million of which is included in discontinued operations), before income taxes and noncontrolling interest, relating to adjustments to property carrying values, investments in real estate joint ventures, real estate under development and other real estate investments. The Company’s estimated fair values relating to these impairment assessments were based upon discounted cash flow models that included all estimated cash inflows and outflows over a specified holding period and where applicable, any estimated debt premiums. These cash flows are comprised of unobservable inputs which include contractual rental revenues and forecasted rental revenues and expenses based upon market conditions and expectations for growth. Capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in these models were based upon observable rates that the Compa ny believes to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective properties. Based on these inputs the Company determined that its valuation in these investments was classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.  

Additionally, during 2009, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $30.1 million due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

For the year ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized impairment charges of approximately $29.1 million before income taxes and noncontrolling interests.  

Additionally, during 2008, the Company recorded impairment charges of approximately $118.4 million due to the decline in value of certain marketable equity securities and other investments that were deemed to be other-than-temporary.  

The Company will continue to assess the value of all its assets on an on-going basis. Based on these assessments, the Company may determine that a decline in value for one or more of its investments may be other-than-temporary or permanent and would therefore write-down its cost basis accordingly. 

Benefit for income taxes increased by $18.5 million to $30.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to $11.6 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This change is primarily due to (i) a decrease in the tax provision expense of approximately $13.2 million from equity income recognized in connection with the Albertson’s investment during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008 and (ii) a decrease in the income tax provision expense of approximately $12.3 million in connection with gains on sale of development properties during 2009 as compared to 2008, partially offset by (iii) a decrease in income tax benefit of approximately $2.1 million related to impairments taken during the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008 and (iv) an increase in foreign taxes of approximately $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the corresp onding period in 2008.  

Equity in income of real estate joint ventures, net for the year ended December 31, 2009, was approximately $6.3 million as compared to $132.2 million for the corresponding period in 2008. This reduction of approximately $125.9 million is primarily the result of (i) an increase in the recognition of impairment charges against the carrying value of the Company’s investment in unconsolidated joint ventures of approximately $27.5 million recorded during 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, primarily due to an increase in impairments of approximately $23.9 million recognized by the Kimco Prudential joint ventures, (ii) the recognition of approximately $2.9 million of equity in income from the Albertson’s joint venture during 2009, as compared to $63.9 million of equity in income recognized during 2008 resulting from the sale of 121 properties in the joint venture, (iii) the recognition of approximately $11.0 million in income resul ting from cash distributions received in excess of the Company’s carrying value of its investment in various unconsolidated limited liability partnerships during the corresponding period in 2008, (iv) a decrease in income of $11.8 million during 2009, from a joint venture which holds interests in extended stay residential properties primarily due to overall decreases in occupancy, (v) a decrease in profit participation of approximately $9.1 million during 2009, as compared to the corresponding period in 2008, resulting from the sale/transfer of operating properties from two joint venture investments, (vi) a  

24 

decrease in income of approximately $4.5 million during 2009, from a Canadian joint venture investment, primarily due to an overall decrease in occupancy and (vii) a decrease in occupancy levels within certain real estate joint venture investments, partially offset by increased gains on sales of approximately $5.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the sale of operating properties during 2009, as compared to 2008.  

During 2009, the Company disposed of, in separate transactions, portions of six operating properties and one land parcel for an aggregate sales price of approximately $28.9 million. These transactions resulted in the Company’s recognition of an aggregate net gain of approximately $4.1 million, net of income tax of $0.2 million. 

During 2008, the Company disposed of seven operating properties and a portion of four operating properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate sales price of approximately $73.0 million, which resulted in an aggregate gain of approximately $20.0 million. In addition, the Company partially recognized deferred gains of approximately $1.2 million on three properties relating to their transfer and partial sale in connection with the Kimco Income Fund II transaction described below.  

During 2008, the Company transferred three properties to a wholly-owned consolidated entity, Kimco Income Fund II (“KIF II”), for $73.9 million, including $50.6 million in non-recourse mortgage debt. During 2008 the Company sold a 26.4% non-controlling ownership interest in the entity to third parties for approximately $32.5 million, which approximated the Company’s cost. The Company continues to consolidate this entity. 

Additionally, during 2008, the Company disposed of an operating property for approximately $21.4 million. The Company provided seller financing for approximately $3.6 million, which bears interest at 10% per annum and is scheduled to mature on May 1, 2011. Due to the terms of this financing the Company deferred its gain of $3.7 million from this sale. 

Additionally, during 2008, a consolidated joint venture in which the Company had a preferred equity investment disposed of a property for a sales price of approximately $35.0 million. As a result of this capital transaction, the Company received approximately $3.5 million of profit participation, before noncontrolling interest of approximately $1.1 million. This profit participation has been recorded as income from other real estate investments and is reflected in Income from discontinued operating properties in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations. 

Net loss attributable to the Company for 2009 was $3.9 million. Net income attributable to the Company for 2008 was $249.9 million. On a diluted per share basis, net loss attributable to the Company was $0.15 for 2009, as compared to net income of $0.78 for 2008. These changes are primarily attributable to (i) an increase in impairment charges of approximately $57.8 million, net of income taxes and noncontrolling interests, resulting from continuing declines in the real estate markets and equity securities, (ii) a reduction in Income from other real estate investments, primarily due to a decrease in profit participation from the Company’s Preferred Equity program, (iii) a decrease in equity in income of joint ventures, primarily due to a decrease in income from the Albertson’s investment and impairment charges relating to five joint venture investments, and (iv) lower gains on sales of development properties, partially offset b y (v) an increase in revenues from rental properties primarily due to acquisitions of operating properties during 2009 and 2008.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The Company’s capital resources include accessing the public debt and equity capital markets, when available, mortgage and construction loan financing and immediate access to unsecured revolving credit facilities with aggregate bank commitments of approximately $1.7 billion. 

The Company’s cash flow activities are summarized as follows (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Activities 

The Company anticipates that cash on hand, borrowings under its revolving credit facilities, issuance of equity and public debt, as well as other debt and equity alternatives, will provide the necessary capital required by the Company. Net cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010, was primarily attributable to (i) cash flow from the diverse portfolio of rental properties, (ii) the acquisition of operating properties during 2010 and 2009, (iii) new leasing, expansion and re-tenanting of core portfolio properties and (iv) distributions from the Company’s joint venture programs. 

25 

Cash flow provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2010, was approximately $479.9 million, as compared to approximately $403.6 million for the comparable period in 2009. The change of approximately $76.3 million is primarily attributable to (i) an increase in distributions from joint ventures of approximately $26.2 million, primarily from increases in distributions from the Albertson’s investment and various other real estate joint ventures, (ii) a decrease in prepaid income taxes of approximately $22.6 million during 2010 as compared to 2009 primarily from the Company’s receipt of a federal tax refund from its filing of carryback claims for its taxable REIT subsidiary, KRS and (iii) additional incremental earnings due to the acquisitions of operating properties during 2010 and 2009. 

Investing Activities 

Cash flow provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010, was approximately $37.9 million, as compared to a cash flows used for investing activities of approximately $343.2 million for the comparable period in 2009. This change of approximately $381.1 million resulted primarily from decreases in (i) the acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate and real estate under development, (ii) an increase in proceeds from the sale of operating properties, partially offset by, (iii) a decrease in proceeds from the sale of marketable securities (iv) an increase in investments and advances to real estate joint ventures, (v) a decrease in reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures, and (vi) a decrease in proceeds from the sale of development properties during the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the corresponding period in 2009. 

Acquisitions of and Improvements to Operating Real Estate 

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company expended approximately $182.5 million towards acquisition of and improvements to operating real estate including $74.5 million expended in connection with redevelopments and re-tenanting projects as described below. (See Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

The Company has an ongoing program to reformat and re-tenant its properties to maintain or enhance its competitive position in the marketplace. The Company anticipates its capital commitment toward these and other redevelopment projects during 2011 will be approximately $15.0 million to $25.0 million. The funding of these capital requirements will be provided by cash flow from operating activities and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit. 

Investments and Advances to Real Estate Joint Ventures 

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company expended approximately $138.8 million for investments and advances to real estate joint ventures and received approximately $85.2 million from reimbursements of advances to real estate joint ventures. (See Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Acquisitions of and Improvements to Real Estate Under Development 

The Company is engaged in ground-up development projects which consist of (i) U.S. ground-up development projects which will be held as long-term investments by the Company and (ii) various ground-up development projects located in Latin America for long-term investment. During 2009, the Company changed its merchant building business strategy from a sale upon completion strategy to a long-term hold strategy. Those properties previously considered merchant building have been either placed in service as long-term investment properties or included in U.S. ground-up development projects. The ground-up development projects generally have significant pre-leasing prior to the commencement of construction. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had in progress a total of six ground-up development projects, consisting of (i) two ground-up development projects located in Mexico, (ii) two ground-up development projects located in the U.S., (iii) one ground-up de velopment project located in Chile and (iv) one ground-up development project located in Brazil. 

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company expended approximately $42.0 million in connection with construction costs related to ground-up development projects. The Company anticipates its capital commitment during 2011 toward these and other development projects will be approximately $25.0 million to $35.0 million. The proceeds from construction loans and availability under the Company’s revolving lines of credit are expected to be sufficient to fund these anticipated capital requirements.  

Dispositions and Transfers 

During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company received net proceeds of approximately $246.6 million relating to the sale of various operating properties and ground-up development projects. (See Notes 5 and 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Financing Activities 

Cash flow used for financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2010, was approximately $514.7 million, as compared to approximately $74.5 million for the comparable period in 2009. This change of approximately $440.2 million resulted primarily from  

26 

the Company’s deleveraging efforts to strengthen the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. As a result of these efforts, there was (i) a decrease in proceeds from the issuance of stock of approximately $886.6 million in 2010 as compared to 2009, (ii) a decrease in proceeds from mortgage/construction loan financing of approximately $419.3 million, (iii) an increase in the repayment of unsecured term loan/notes of approximately $43.0 million, (iv) decreases in proceeds from issuance of unsecured term loans/notes of approximately $70.3 million and (v) an increase in the redemption of noncontrolling interests of approximately $49.1 million, partially offset by (vi) a net decrease of approximately $565.4 million in net borrowings/repayments under the Company’s unsecured revolving credit facilities, (vii) an overall decrease in aggregate principal payments of approximately $430.0 million and (viii) a decrease in dividends paid of ap proximately $24.1 million. 

The Company continually evaluates its debt maturities, and, based on management’s current assessment, believes it has viable financing and refinancing alternatives that will not materially adversely impact its expected financial results. The credit environment has improved and the Company continues to pursue opportunities with large commercial U.S. and global banks, select life insurance companies and certain regional and local banks. The Company has noticed a continuing trend that although pricing and loan-to-value ratios remain dependent on specific deal terms, generally spreads for non-recourse mortgage financing are compressing and loan-to-values are gradually increasing from levels a year ago. The unsecured debt markets are functioning well and credit spreads have decreased dramatically from a year ago. The Company continues to assess 2011 and beyond to ensure the Company is prepared if the current credit market conditions dete riorate.  

Debt maturities for 2011 consist of: $112.5 million of consolidated debt; $685.2 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt; and $276.4 million of preferred equity debt, assuming the utilization of extension options where available. The 2011 consolidated debt maturities are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, borrowings from the Company’s credit facilities, which at December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion available under these credit facilities, and debt refinancings. The 2011 unconsolidated joint venture and preferred equity debt maturities are anticipated to be repaid through debt refinancing and partner capital contributions, as deemed appropriate. 

The Company intends to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed charge coverage ratios as part of its commitment to maintaining its investment-grade debt ratings. The Company plans to continue strengthening its balance sheet by pursuing deleveraging efforts over time. The Company may, from time-to-time, seek to obtain funds through additional common and preferred equity offerings, unsecured debt financings and/or mortgage/construction loan financings and other capital alternatives.  

Since the completion of the Company’s IPO in 1991, the Company has utilized the public debt and equity markets as its principal source of capital for its expansion needs. Since the IPO, the Company has completed additional offerings of its public unsecured debt and equity, raising in the aggregate over $7.9 billion. Proceeds from public capital market activities have been used for the purposes of, among other things, repaying indebtedness, acquiring interests in neighborhood and community shopping centers, funding ground-up development projects, expanding and improving properties in the portfolio and other investments. These markets have experienced extreme volatility but have more recently stabilized. As available, the Company will continue to access these markets. The Company was added to the S&P 500 Index in March 2006, an index containing the stock of 500 Large Cap corporations, most of which are U.S. corporations. 

The Company has a $1.5 billion unsecured U.S. revolving credit facility (the "U.S. Credit Facility") with a group of banks, which was scheduled to expire in October 2011. During October 2010, the Company exercised its one-year extension option and the U.S. Credit Facility is now scheduled to expire in October 2012. The U.S. Credit Facility has made available funds to finance general corporate purposes, including (i) property acquisitions, (ii) investments in the Company’s institutional real estate management programs, (iii) development and redevelopment costs and (iv) any short-term working capital requirements, including managing the Company’s debt maturities. Interest on borrowings under the U.S. Credit Facility accrues at LIBOR plus 0.425% and fluctuates in accordance with changes in the Company’s senior debt ratings. As part of this U.S. Credit Facility, the Company has a competitive bid option whereby the Co mpany may auction up to $750.0 million of its requested borrowings to the bank group. This competitive bid option provides the Company the opportunity to obtain pricing below the currently stated spread. A facility fee of 0.15% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. As part of the U.S. Credit Facility, the Company has a $200.0 million sub-limit which provides it the opportunity to borrow in alternative currencies such as Pounds Sterling, Japanese Yen or Euros. As of December 31, 2010, the U.S. Credit Facility had a balance of $123.2 million outstanding and approximately $23.7 million appropriated for letters of credit. Pursuant to the terms of the U.S. Credit Facility, the Company, among other things, is subject to maintenance of various covenants. The Company is currently not in violation of these covenants. The financial covenants for the U.S. Credit Facility are as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

27 

For a full description of the U.S. Credit Facility’s covenants refer to the Credit Agreement dated as of October 25, 2007 filed in the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 25, 2007. 

The Company also has a Canadian denominated (“CAD”) $250.0 million unsecured credit facility with a group of banks. This facility bears interest at a rate of CDOR plus 0.425%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings and was scheduled to mature March 2011. During September 2010, the Company exercised its one-year extension option and the credit facility is now scheduled to expire in March 2012. A facility fee of 0.15% per annum is payable quarterly in arrears. This facility also permits U.S. dollar denominated borrowings. Proceeds from this facility are used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of Canadian denominated investments. As of December 31, 2010, there was no outstanding balance under this credit facility. The Canadian facility covenants are the same as the U.S. Credit Facility covenants described above. 

During March 2008, the Company obtained a MXP 1.0 billion term loan, which bears interest at a rate of 8.58%, subject to change in accordance with the Company’s senior debt ratings, and is scheduled to mature in March 2013. The Company utilized proceeds from this term loan to fully repay the outstanding balance of a MXP 500.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility, which was terminated by the Company. Remaining proceeds from this term loan were used for funding MXP denominated investments. As of December 31, 2010, the outstanding balance on this term loan was MXP 1.0 billion (approximately USD $80.9 million). The Mexican term loan covenants are the same as the U.S. and Canadian Credit Facilities covenants described above. 

The Company has a Medium Term Notes (“MTNs”) program pursuant to which it may, from time-to-time, offer for sale its senior unsecured debt for any general corporate purposes, including (i) funding specific liquidity requirements in its business, including property acquisitions, development and redevelopment costs and (ii) managing the Company’s debt maturities. (See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.)  

The Company’s supplemental indenture governing its medium term notes and senior notes contains the following covenants, all of which the Company is compliant with: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For a full description of the various indenture covenants refer to the Indenture dated September 1, 1993, First Supplemental Indenture dated August 4, 1994, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated April 7, 1995, the Third Supplemental Indenture dated June 2, 2006, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 24, 2009, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 31, 2006 and First Supplemental Indenture dated October 31, 2006, as filed with the SEC. See Exhibits Index on page 39, for specific filing information. 

During 2010, the Company issued $300.0 million of unsecured MTNs which bear interest at a rate of 4.30% and are scheduled to mature on February 1, 2018. Proceeds from these MTNs were used to repay (i) the Company’s $100.0 million 5.304% MTNs which were scheduled to mature in February 2011 and (ii) the Company’s $150.0 million 7.95% MTNs which were scheduled to mature in April 2011. The remaining proceeds were used for general corporate purposes. In connection with the optional make-whole provisions relating to the prepayment of these notes, the Company incurred early extinguishment of debt charges aggregating approximately $6.5 million. 

During April 2010, the Company issued $150.0 million CAD (approximately USD $141.1 million) unsecured notes to a group of private investors at a rate of 5.99% scheduled to mature on April 13, 2018. Proceeds from these notes were used to repay the Company’s CAD $150.0 million 4.45% Series 1 unsecured notes which matured in April 2010.  

Additionally, during 2010, the Company repaid (i) the remaining $46.5 million balance on its 4.62% MTNs, which matured in May 2010 and (ii) its $25.0 million 7.30% MTNs, which matured in September 2010. 

During 2010, the Company (i) assumed approximately $144.8 million of individual non-recourse mortgage debt relating to the acquisition of eight operating properties, including a decrease of approximately $4.4 million associated with fair value debt adjustments, (ii) assigned approximately $159.9 million in non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering three operating properties that were sold to newly formed joint ventures in which the Company has noncontrolling interests, (iii) assigned approximately $81.0 million of non-recourse mortgage debt encumbering an operating property that was sold to a third party and (iv) paid off approximately $226.0 million of mortgage debt that encumbered 17 operating properties. In connection with the repayment of five of these mortgages, the Company incurred early extinguishment of debt charges aggregating approximately $4.3 million.  

28 

During April 2009, the Company filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, which is effective for a term of three years, for the future unlimited offerings, from time-to-time, of debt securities, preferred stock, depositary shares, common stock and common stock warrants.  

During August 2010, the Company issued 7,000,000 Depositary Shares (the "Class H Depositary Shares"), each representing a one-hundredth fractional interest in a share of the Company's 6.90% Class H Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value per share (the "Class H Preferred Stock"). Dividends on the Class H Depositary Shares are cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears at the rate of 6.90% per annum based on the $25.00 per share initial offering price, or $1.725 per annum. The Class H Depositary Shares are redeemable, in whole or part, for cash on or after August 30, 2015, at the option of the Company, at a redemption price of $25.00 per depositary share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The Class H Depositary Shares are not convertible or exchangeable for any other property or securities of the Company. The net proceeds received from this offering of approximately $169.2 million were used primarily to repay mortgage loans in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $150.0 million and for general corporate purposes. 

In addition to the public equity and debt markets as capital sources, the Company may, from time-to-time, obtain mortgage financing on selected properties and construction loans to partially fund the capital needs of its ground-up development projects. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had over 430 unencumbered property interests in its portfolio.  

In connection with its intention to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company expects to continue paying regular dividends to its stockholders. These dividends will be paid from operating cash flows. The Company’s Board of Directors will continue to evaluate the Company’s dividend policy on a quarterly basis as they monitor sources of capital and evaluate the impact of the economy and capital markets availability on operating fundamentals. Since cash used to pay dividends reduces amounts available for capital investment, the Company generally intends to maintain a conservative dividend payout ratio, reserving such amounts as it considers necessary for the expansion and renovation of shopping centers in its portfolio, debt reduction, the acquisition of interests in new properties and other investments as suitable opportunities arise and such other factors as the Board of Directors considers appropriate. &nbs p;Cash dividends paid were $307.0 million in 2010, as compared to $331.0 million in 2009 and $469.0 million in 2008. 

Although the Company receives substantially all of its rental payments on a monthly basis, it generally intends to continue paying dividends quarterly. Amounts accumulated in advance of each quarterly distribution will be invested by the Company in short-term money market or other suitable instruments. The Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per common share payable to shareholders of record on January 3, 2011, which was paid on January 18, 2011. Additionally, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per common share payable to shareholders of record on April 5, 2011, which will be paid on April 15, 2011.  

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 

The Company has debt obligations relating to its revolving credit facilities, MTNs, senior notes, mortgages and construction loans with maturities ranging from less than one year to 25 years. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s total debt had a weighted average term to maturity of approximately 5.2 years. In addition, the Company has non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its shopping center portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, the Company has 48 shopping center properties that are subject to long-term ground leases where a third party owns and has leased the underlying land to the Company to construct and/or operate a shopping center. In addition, the Company has 14 non-cancelable operating leases pertaining to its retail store lease portfolio. The following table summarizes the Company’s debt maturities (excluding extension options and fair market value of debt adjustments aggregating approximately $3.2 m illion) and obligations under non-cancelable operating leases as of December 31, 2010 (in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) Maturities utilized do not reflect extension options, which range from one to two years. 

(2) For loans which have interest at floating rates, future interest expense was calculated using the rate as of December 31, 2010. 

The Company has $14.9 million of non-current uncertain tax benefits and related interest under the provisions of the authoritative guidance that addresses accounting for income taxes, which are included in other liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010. These amounts are not included in the table above because a reasonably reliable estimate regarding the timing of settlements with the relevant tax authorities, if any, can not be made. 

29 

The Company has $88.0 million of medium term notes, $2.6 million of unsecured notes payable and $35.2 million of mortgage debt scheduled to mature in 2011. The Company anticipates satisfying these maturities with a combination of operating cash flows, its unsecured revolving credit facilities, refinancing of debt and new debt issuances, when available. 

The Company has issued letters of credit in connection with completion and repayment guarantees for construction loans encumbering certain of the Company’s ground-up development projects and guarantee of payment related to the Company’s insurance program. These letters of credit aggregate approximately $23.7 million. 

During August 2009, the Company was obligated to issue a letter of credit for approximately CAD $66.0 million (approximately USD $64.0 million) relating to a tax assessment dispute with the Canada Revenue Agency (“CRA”). The letter of credit had been issued under the Company’s CAD $250 million credit facility referred to above. The dispute was in regard to three of the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiaries which hold a 50% co-ownership interest in Canadian real estate. Applicable Canadian law requires that a non-resident corporation post sufficient collateral to cover a claim for taxes assessed. As such, the Company issued its letter of credit as required by the governing law. During November 2010, the Company was released from this tax assessment and as a result the letter of credit was returned to the Company.  

The Company holds a 15% noncontrolling ownership interest in each of three joint ventures, with three separate accounts managed by Prudential Real Estate Investors (“PREI”), collectively, KimPru. KimPru had a term loan facility which bore interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.25% and was scheduled to mature in August 2010. This facility was guaranteed by the Company with a guarantee from PREI to the Company for 85% of any guaranty payment the Company was obligated to make. During July 2010, KimPru fully repaid the $287.5 million outstanding balance on this facility primarily from capital contributions provided by the partners, at their respective ownership percentages of 85% from PREI and 15% from the Company.  

On a select basis, the Company provides guarantees on interest bearing debt held within real estate joint ventures in which the Company has noncontrolling ownership interests. The Company is often provided with a back-stop guarantee from its partners. The Company had the following outstanding guarantees as of December 31, 2010 (amounts in millions): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1) The joint venture obtained an interest rate swap at 5.37% on $128.0 million of this debt. The swap is designated as a cash flow hedge and is deemed highly effective; as such, adjustments to the swaps fair value are recorded at the joint venture level in other comprehensive income. 

(2) Subsequent to December 31, 2010, this property was sold to a third party, as such, the debt was repaid and the Company was relieved of this guarantee. 

In connection with the construction of its development projects and related infrastructure, certain public agencies require posting of performance and surety bonds to guarantee that the Company’s obligations are satisfied. These bonds expire upon the completion of the improvements and infrastructure. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $45.3 million in performance and surety bonds outstanding.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

Unconsolidated Real Estate Joint Ventures 

The Company has investments in various unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. These joint ventures primarily operate either shopping center properties or are established for development projects. Such arrangements are generally with third-party institutional investors, local developers and individuals. The properties owned by the joint ventures are primarily financed with individual non-recourse mortgage loans, however, the Company, on a selective basis, obtains unsecured financing for certain joint ventures. These unsecured financings are guaranteed by the Company with guarantees from the joint venture partners for their proportionate amounts of any guaranty payment the Company is obligated to make (see guarantee table above). Non-recourse mortgage debt is generally defined as debt whereby the lenders’ sole recourse with respect to borrower defaults is limited to the value of the property collatera lized by the mortgage. The lender generally does not have recourse against any other assets owned by the borrower or any of the constituent members of the borrower, except for certain specified exceptions listed in the particular loan documents (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K). These investments include the following joint ventures: 

30 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(a) 

Ownership % is a blended rate. 

(b) 

See Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments regarding guarantees by the Company and its joint venture partners. 

(c) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Prudential Real Estate Investors. 

(d) 

Represents the Kimco Income Operating Partnership, L.P., formed in 1998. 

(e) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with UBS Wealth Management North American Property Fund Limited. 

(f) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with BIG Shopping Centers (TLV:BIG), an Israeli public company. 

(g) Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB)  

(h) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with SEB Immobilien Investment GmbH. 

(i) 

Represents the Kimco Income Fund, formed in 2004. 

(j) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with Westmont Hospitality Group. 

(k) 

Represents the Company’s joint ventures with RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust. 

(l) 

The Company’s share of this investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows.  

The Company has various other unconsolidated real estate joint ventures with varying structures. As of December 31, 2010, these other unconsolidated joint ventures had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $2.3 billion and unsecured notes payable aggregating approximately $41.8 million. The aggregate debt as of December 31, 2010 of all of the Company’s unconsolidated real estate joint ventures is approximately $8.0 billion, of which the Company’s share of this debt was approximately $3.0 billion. These loans have scheduled maturities ranging from one month to 24 years and bear interest at rates ranging from 1.01% to 10.50% at December 31, 2010. Approximately $685.2 million of the outstanding loan balance matures in 2011, of which the Company’s share is approximately $252.9 million. These maturing loans are anticipated to be repaid with operating cash flows, debt refinancing and partner capi tal contributions, as deemed appropriate. (See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K.) 

Other Real Estate Investments 

The Company previously provided capital to owners and developers of real estate properties through its Preferred Equity program. The Company accounts for its preferred equity investments under the equity method of accounting. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s net investment under the Preferred Equity Program was approximately $275.4 million relating to 171 properties. As of December 31, 2010, these preferred equity investment properties had individual non-recourse mortgage loans aggregating approximately $1.2 billion. Due to the Company’s preferred position in these investments, the Company’s share of each investment is subject to fluctuation and is dependent upon property cash flows. The Company’s maximum exposure to losses associated with its preferred equity investments is primarily limited to its invested capital. 

Additionally, during July 2007, the Company invested approximately $81.7 million of preferred equity capital in a portfolio comprised of 403 net leased properties which are divided into 30 master leased pools with each pool leased to individual corporate operators. These properties consist of a diverse array of free-standing restaurants, fast food restaurants, convenience and auto parts stores. As of December 31, 2010, these properties were encumbered by third party loans aggregating approximately $403.2 million with interest rates ranging from 5.08% to 10.47% with a weighted average interest rate of 9.3% and maturities ranging from one year to 11 years.  

During June 2002, the Company acquired a 90% equity participation interest in an existing leveraged lease of 30 properties. The properties are leased under a long-term bond-type net lease whose primary term expires in 2016, with the lessee having certain renewal option rights. The Company’s cash equity investment was approximately $4.0 million. This equity investment is reported as a net investment in leveraged lease in accordance with the FASB’s Lease guidance. The net investment in leveraged lease reflects the original cash investment adjusted by remaining net rentals, estimated unguaranteed residual value, unearned and deferred income and deferred taxes relating to the investment. 

31 

As of December 31, 2010, 18 of these leveraged lease properties were sold, whereby the proceeds from the sales were used to pay down the mortgage debt by approximately $31.2 million. As of December 31, 2010, the remaining 12 properties were encumbered by third-party non-recourse debt of approximately $33.4 million that is scheduled to fully amortize during the primary term of the lease from a portion of the periodic net rents receivable under the net lease. As an equity participant in the leveraged lease, the Company has no recourse obligation for principal or interest payments on the debt, which is collateralized by a first mortgage lien on the properties and collateral assignment of the lease. Accordingly, this debt has been offset against the related net rental receivable under the lease. 

Effects of Inflation 

Many of the Company's leases contain provisions designed to mitigate the adverse impact of inflation. Such provisions include clauses enabling the Company to receive payment of additional rent calculated as a percentage of tenants' gross sales above pre-determined thresholds, which generally increase as prices rise, and/or escalation clauses, which generally increase rental rates during the terms of the leases. Such escalation clauses often include increases based upon changes in the consumer price index or similar inflation indices. In addition, many of the Company's leases are for terms of less than 10 years, which permits the Company to seek to increase rents to market rates upon renewal. Most of the Company's leases require the tenant to pay an allocable share of operating expenses, including common area maintenance costs, real estate taxes and insurance, thereby reducing the Company's exposure to increases in costs and operating expenses resulting from inflation. The Company periodically evaluates its exposure to short-term interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates and will, from time-to-time, enter into interest rate protection agreements and/or foreign currency hedge agreements which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the effect of changes in interest rates on its floating-rate debt and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 

Market and Economic Conditions; Real Estate and Retail Shopping Sector 

In the U.S., economic and market conditions have stabilized. Credit conditions have continued to improve from the prior year with increased access and availability to secured mortgage debt and the unsecured bond and equity markets. However, there remains concern over high unemployment rates and an uncertain economic recovery in Europe. These conditions have contributed to slow growth in the U.S. and international economies. 

Historically, real estate has been subject to a wide range of cyclical economic conditions that affect various real estate markets and geographic regions with differing intensities and at different times. Different regions of the United States have and may continue to experience varying degrees of economic growth or distress. Adverse changes in general or local economic conditions could result in the inability of some tenants of the Company to meet their lease obligations and could otherwise adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract or retain tenants. The Company’s shopping centers are typically anchored by two or more national tenants who generally offer day-to-day necessities, rather than high-priced luxury items. In addition, the Company seeks to reduce its operating and leasing risks through ownership of a portfolio of properties with a diverse geographic and tenant base. 

The Company monitors potential credit issues of its tenants, and analyzes the possible effects to the financial statements of the Company and its unconsolidated joint ventures. In addition to the collectability assessment of outstanding accounts receivable, the Company evaluates the related real estate for recoverability as well as any tenant related deferred charges for recoverability, which may include straight-line rents, deferred lease costs, tenant improvements, tenant inducements and intangible assets. 

The retail shopping sector has been negatively affected by recent economic conditions, particularly in the Western United States (primarily California). These conditions may result in the Company’s tenants delaying lease commencements or declining to extend or renew leases upon expiration. These conditions also have forced some weaker retailers, in some cases, to declare bankruptcy and/or close stores. Certain retailers have announced store closings even though they have not filed for bankruptcy protection. However, any of these particular store closings affecting the Company often represent a small percentage of the Company’s overall gross leasable area and the Company does not currently expect store closings to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s overall performance. 

New Accounting Pronouncements 

See Footnote 1 of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements included in this annual report on Form 10-K. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk