Item 1.  

BUSINESS 

General Background Information  

We are one of the largest technical professional services firms in the world. We provide a diverse range of technical, professional, and construction services to a large number of industrial, commercial, and governmental clients.  

We focus our services on clients operating in the following sectors: 

•  

Oil and gas exploration, production, and refining; 

•  

Chemicals and polymers; 

•  

Programs for various national governments, including aerospace, defense, and environmental programs; 

•  

Buildings (including specialized buildings for clients operating in the fields of healthcare, education, and high technology; governmental complexes; other specialized civic and mission critical buildings, installations, and laboratories; and retail and commercial buildings); 

•  

Infrastructure and telecommunications; 

•  

Mining and minerals; 

•  

Pharmaceuticals and biotechnology; 

•  

Power; 

•  

Pulp and paper; 

•  

Technology and manufacturing; and, 

•  

Food and consumer products, among others. 

Jacobs was founded in 1947 and incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1987. We are headquartered in Dallas, Texas, USA, and provide our services through more than 200 offices located around the globe in North America, South America, Europe, the Middle East, India, Australia, Africa, and Asia. 

How We Operate 

As a broad-based technical professional services firm, we offer a range of services to help our clients maintain a competitive edge in their respective markets. From consulting and feasibility studies to design, to engineering, to construction, to start-up and commissioning, and then to operations and maintenance, we customize our services to meet  

Page 3 

business and project goals. Our global network of professionals works with a multi-office approach in an effort to provide clients with the best, most economical project or program solutions. 

We strive to provide client value through continuous improvement in our performance. We regularly monitor our clients' expectations, our project delivery protocols and system, and our operational performance. Tools such as our Jacobs Value Enhancing Practices, Global Standard Operating Procedures, project reviews, the Jacobs System to Ensure Project Success ("JSTEPS") and Safe Plans of Action ("SPAs") provide added value to our clients' projects. They also allow us to create performance improvement actions during the project execution. Through continuous improvement, with our tools and our processes, we believe we can offer our clients superior value when they do business with us. 

JacobsValue+ SM ("Value Plus") is an internal tool we use to document and quantify the actual value or savings we provide to our clients and their projects. Some of the benefits achieved through the Value Plus program include lower total installed costs, shorter schedules, and reduced life cycle costs. Value Plus is implemented at project initiation: a project goal is created, and cost-saving ideas are entered into the Value Plus database. When the Value Plus cycle is complete, the project team and client identify and agree on the unique cost and/or schedule reductions for the project. 

The Company’s Strategy 

Our strategy is based on three key priorities: 

•  

Build a High Performance Culture – Reinforce a culture of accountability, inspirational leadership and innovation that will drive long-term outperformance;  

•  

Transform the Core – Fundamentally change the way we operate to improve project delivery, sales effectiveness and business excellence; and  

•  

Grow Profitably – Execute a balanced strategy focused on organic growth, M&A and active portfolio management to drive profitable growth in the most attractive sectors and geographies. 

Employees and Safety 

Our employees are our most important and valuable asset and, therefore, the prevention of job-related injuries is given top priority. It is the policy of the Company to provide and maintain a safe and healthy working environment and to follow operating practices that safeguard all employees and result in a more efficient operation. BeyondZero®, the name of our program that promotes our culture of caring, moves beyond efforts to have an incident and injury-free safety performance. We implement a culture of caring where concern for employees' health, safety, and welfare extends outside the office walls, beyond the project site fences and into their homes, cars, and all the places where they interact with family, friends, and fellow employees. We have commenced a mental health program which aims to promote positive mental health across our Company. 

Since Jacobs’ founding, the Company has been based on doing business honestly, ethically, and with the utmost integrity. Our culture, and our Code of Conduct which all employees are required to sign annually, prescribe that everyone at the Company must adhere to Jacobs’ values and ethical code, and comply with the laws that govern the Company’s activities worldwide. Our employees and business partners are expected to follow the highest principles of business conduct, integrity, and ethics as they carry out their responsibilities, and are guided by the following principles in carrying out their responsibilities: loyalty, compliance with applicable laws, observance of ethical standards, avoidance of conflicts of interest, and communication. We endeavor to deal fairly with our employees, customers, suppliers, and competitors, and to respect the policies and procedures of those outside the Company.  

We strive to present a clear and consistent image of our Company to our clients, employees, shareholders, and business partners, regarding how we behave, how we communicate, how we look, and most importantly, how our promises to our clients are delivered, anywhere in the world.  

Page 4 

We accomplish this foremost through our vision, mission and values, which allow us to behave as one company and unify us worldwide. By keeping our values as a central focus of our Company, we are able to think the same way and arrive at similar conclusions, regardless of our physical location. With respect to our values: 

•  

Our values stand on a foundation of safety and integrity; 

•  

People are the heart of our business; 

•  

Clients are our valued partners; 

•  

Performance excellence is our commitment; and 

•  

Profitable growth is an imperative. 

Our Vision statement “solutions for a more connected sustainable world” underpins our commitment to sustainability. Plan Beyond is how we define and identify with our approach to sustainability. Building on BeyondZero and our culture of caring, Plan Beyond helps us to focus on looking beyond our company and how we contribute as a global corporate citizen. Our sustainability activities encompass Jacobs stakeholders at Jacobs including our clients, our people and wider communities, our supply chain partners and our investors.  

Through planning beyond compliance our people are empowered to explore, to innovate, and to develop solutions that help our clients deliver their sustainable goals. We have the experience and competency to assist our clients with the challenges of climate change, resilience of cities and infrastructure, efficient and sustainable procurement, resource reuse and recycling, water resource management, energy source management and environmental protection and enhancement.  

As our company values espouse, people are the heart of our business. It is the talent of our people that is the key to our contribution to achieving our company vision. By their innovation and determination to embed sustainability into their design and delivery of service, we will contribute significantly to address the challenges facing sustainability through the thousands of clients, and their stakeholders, whom we work with every year.  

Applying the best, most efficient and effective sustainable solutions for clients worldwide, in all major industries in which our clients operate, allows us to make a significant contribution to a safe and sustainable future. Each year we issue a Sustainability Report that describes many of our efforts and accomplishments regarding sustainability. 

With respect to human resources, our goal is to establish an inclusive, diverse workplace that energizes the people who fuel our Company's growth. Although we are a large company with over 54,700 employees in over 25 countries, our employees are unified in their focus on superior value, safety, and ethical business practices regardless of the country in which they work, and employees frequently move around the globe as they grow their careers. 

How We Grow 

Jacobs has grown significantly since its founding in 1947. Both organic growth and strategic acquisitions play an important part of the Company’s growth strategy. We have acquired and integrated numerous companies over the years that have enhanced our capabilities, geographic reach, and offerings. 

In terms of organic growth, our relationship-based business model is central to our sustained growth and profitability. We pursue the development of long-term relationships and alliances with our clients. By working with our clients to solve their challenges, we increase our understanding of their overall business needs, as well as the unique technical requirements of their specific projects. This increased understanding enables us to provide superior value to our clients. Our approach provides us with opportunities to market the following services to our clients: 

•  

consulting;  

•  

system enhancements;  

•  

pre-design phases of large projects, which include master planning, project permitting, and project finance options;  

•  

design phase; and  

•  

construction, post-start-up and commissioning phases of a facility, including operations and maintenance services. 

Page 5 

Our relationships with clients also present ongoing opportunities to expand into adjacent markets. For example, clients operating in the mining and minerals market often have a need for our infrastructure and buildings capabilities. The same is true for clients operating in other markets. 

We market our services to clients in a wide range of public, institutional, process, and industrial markets. We increase our opportunities through focused market diversity, and are able to price contracts competitively and enhance overall profitability while delivering additional value to our clients by integrating and bundling our services. In complex economic times, we believe we have the ability to evolve along with market cycles worldwide. When opportunities decrease in a particular market or geography, other opportunities often increase. Because of our focused market diversity, we believe we are well positioned to address a wide range of opportunities across many markets and geographies, which helps us grow our business. 

The Role of Acquisitions and Strategic Investments in the Development of Our Business 

When we review acquisition targets, we are conscious of the effect the acquisition may have on our client base. We favor acquisitions that are aligned with our growth strategy, which target enhancements of our capabilities and add value to our customers and shareholders. We do this by (i) expanding into a new client market; (ii) enhancing the range of services we provide existing clients; and/or (iii) accessing new geographic areas in which our clients either already operate or plan to expand. By expanding into new geographic areas and adding to our existing technical and project management capabilities, we strive to position ourselves as a preferred, single-source provider of technical, professional, and construction services to our clients.  

On August 1, 2017, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with CH2M HILL Companies, Ltd. (“CH2M”), and Basketball Merger Sub Inc., a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (“Merger Sub”). Pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, (i) Merger Sub will merge with and into CH2M, with CH2M continuing as the surviving corporation and becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the “Merger”) and (ii) each outstanding share of common stock of CH2M will be converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder thereof in accordance with, and subject to, the terms, conditions and procedures set forth in the Merger Agreement, in each case without interest the following consideration: (a) the combination of (x) $52.85 in cash and (y) 0.6677 shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company; (b) $88.08 in cash; or (c) 1.6693 shares of the Company’s common stock. 

The Merger is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals and approval by CH2M stockholders. 

Also, see the following brief description of some of our recent key acquisitions (in reverse chronological order): 

•  

On August 31, 2017, we acquired Blue Canopy, LLC headquartered in Reston, Virginia. Blue Canopy provides data analytics, cybersecurity and application development. 

•  

On January 27, 2017, we acquired Aquenta Consulting Pty Ltd. (“Aquenta”) headquartered in Sydney, Australia. Aquenta provides integrated project services. 

•  

On April 12, 2016, we acquired The Van Dyke Technology Group, Inc. (“Van Dyke”) headquartered in Columbia, Maryland. Van Dyke provides advanced cybersecurity services and solutions designed to protect sensitive information within classified networks, with a focus on supporting the U.S. Intelligence Community. 

•  

On December 7, 2015, we acquired J.L. Patterson & Associates (“JLP”) headquartered in Orange, California. JLP is a consulting and professional services engineering firm specializing in rail planning, environmental permitting, design and construction management. It provides services to numerous public transit agencies and is a major provider of professional consulting services to Class 1 railroads across the U.S. 

•  

On March 31, 2015, we acquired Suzhou Hans Chemical Engineering Co. ("SHCE") headquartered in China. SHCE has two specialty Class A design licenses in China’s Chemical, Petrochemical and Pharmaceutical industries, which allow the firm to provide engineering design for chemical projects in China and project management services for various projects in China.  

For additional information regarding certain issues related to our acquisition strategy, please refer to Item 1A— Risk Factors below. 

Page 6 

Lines of Business 

During the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we reorganized our operations around four global lines of business, or “LOBs”. This reorganization was intended to better serve our global clients, leverage our workforce, help streamline operations, and provide enhanced growth opportunities. Our four global lines of business are: Aerospace & Technology, Buildings & Infrastructure, Industrial and Petroleum & Chemicals. Each LOB has a president that reports directly to the Company's Chairman & CEO. As part of the reorganization, certain support functions (i.e. Sales), which were managed centrally for many years, have been embedded in the lines of business and report to the respective line of business presidents. The costs of other support functions (e.g., accounting, legal, information technology and other) and certain other activities (e.g., global insurance) are assigned or allocated to each new LOB using a rationale method of assignment/allocation, or remain an element of corporate general and administrative expenses. In connection with the reorganization, the Company significantly modified its cash incentive plan utilizing performance metrics aligned along the new lines of business. 

Services 

Our services fall into four broad categories: Project Services; Process, Scientific and Systems Consulting Services; Construction Services; and Operations and Maintenance Services. 

Project Services 

We employ the engineering, architecture, interiors, design, planning, and related disciplines necessary to design and engineer modern process plants, buildings, infrastructure projects, technology and manufacturing facilities, consumer products manufacturing facilities, power plants and stations, pulp and paper plants, and other facilities. 

We are capable of providing our clients with a variety of value engineering services, including "safety in design". Through safety in design we integrate best practices, hazard analysis, and risk assessment methods early in the design phase of projects, with the goal of eliminating or mitigating injury and damage during the construction, start-up, testing and commissioning, and operations phases of a project. 

In the area of construction management, we provide our clients with a wide range of services as an agent for our clients. We may act as program director, whereby we oversee, on the owner's behalf, the complete planning, design, and construction phases of the project. Alternatively, our services may be limited to providing construction consulting. 

Project Services also includes planning, scheduling, procurement, estimating, cost engineering, project accounting, project delivery (quality), safety, and all other key support services needed for complete cradle-to-grave project delivery. 

Process, Scientific and Systems Consulting Services 

We employ the professional and technical skills and expertise with respect to a broad range of consulting services, including: performing pricing studies, market analyses, and financial projections necessary in determining the feasibility of a project; performing gasoline reformulation modeling; analyzing and evaluating layout and mechanical designs for complex processing plants; analyzing automation and control systems; analyzing, designing, and executing bio containment strategies; developing and performing process protocols with respect to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration-mandated qualification and validation requirements; and performing geological and metallurgical studies. 

Also included in this service category are revenues relating to defense and aerospace-related programs. Such services typically are more technical and scientific in nature than other project services we provide, and may involve tasks such as supporting the development and testing of conventional weapons systems; weapons modeling and simulations; computer systems development, maintenance, and support; evaluation and testing of mission-critical control systems; aerospace, testing, and propulsion systems and facilities; cyber security and IT services; and other highly technical or scientific tasks. 

Construction Services 

In addition to the construction management services included under Project Services above, we provide traditional field Construction Services to private and public sector clients. We also provide modular construction consulting services. In the area of environmental remediation and restoration, we also provide environmental remedial construction services for a variety of public and private sector clients. 

Page 7 

Historically, our field construction activities have been focused primarily on those construction projects for which we perform much of the related engineering and design work. By focusing our construction efforts in this way, we attempt to minimize the risks associated with constructing complex projects based on designs prepared by third parties. The financial risk to us of constructing complex assets based on designs prepared by third parties may be particularly significant on fixed-price contracts, though we ensure appropriate controls are in place to manage risk. However, we will pursue construction-only projects when we can negotiate pricing and other contract terms we deem acceptable and which we believe can result in a fair return for the degree of risk we assume. 

Operations and Maintenance Services 

Operations and Maintenance (“O&M”) refers to all of the tasks required to operate and maintain large, complex facilities on behalf of clients. We provide key management and support services over all aspects of the operations of a facility, including managing subcontractors and other on-site personnel. O&M also includes process plant maintenance services, which generally involves all tasks required to keep a process plant (typically a refinery or chemical plant) in day-to-day operation. 

Within the aerospace and defense areas, O&M often requires us to provide the management and technical support services necessary to operate and maintain such sites as engine test facilities, weapons integration facilities, and high-tech simulation and verification centers. Such O&M contracts also frequently require us to provide facilities management and maintenance services, utilities operations and maintenance services, property management and disposition services, and construction support services. 

Within the environmental area, O&M often includes engineering and technical support services as well as program management services necessary to remediate contaminated sites. 

Although the gross profit margins we realize from O&M services are generally lower than those associated with the other services we provide, the costs to support maintenance activities are also generally lower. In addition, O&M services offer us an opportunity to build and maintain long-term relationships with clients. This aspect of O&M services greatly reduces the selling costs in respect of such services. 

The following table sets forth our revenues from each of our four service categories for the years ended September 29, 2017, September 30, 2016 and October 2, 2015 (in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Segments 

As discussed above, the services we provide fall into the following four lines of business (“LOB”): Aerospace & Technology, Buildings & Infrastructure, Industrial, and Petroleum & Chemicals, which are also the Company’s reportable segments.  

For additional information regarding our segments, including information about our financial results by segment and financial results by geography, see Note 15 — Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Aerospace & Technology – We provide an in-depth range of scientific, engineering, construction, nuclear and technical support services to the aerospace, defense, technical and automotive industries in several countries. Long-term clients include the Ministry of Defence in the U.K., the UK Nuclear Decommissioning Authority, NASA, the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”), the U.S. Special Operations Command, the U.S. Intelligence community, and the Australian Department of Defence. Specific to NASA, one of our major government customers in the U.S., is our ability to design, build, operate, and maintain highly complex facilities relating to space systems, including test and evaluation facilities, launch facilities, and support infrastructure. We provide environmental characterization and restoration services to  

Page 8 

commercial and government customers both in the US and UK. This includes designing, building and operating high hazard remediation systems including for radiologically contaminated media. 

In addition, we design and build aerodynamic, climatic, altitude and acoustic facilities in support of the automotive industry, and are a provider of a wide range of services in the telecommunications market. 

Our experience in the defense sector includes military systems acquisition management and strategic planning; operations and maintenance of test facilities and ranges; test and evaluation services in computer, laboratory, facility, and range environments; test facility computer systems instrumentation and diagnostics; and test facility design and build. We also provide systems engineering and integration of complex weapons and space systems, as well as hardware and software design of complex flight and ground systems. 

We have provided advanced technology engineering services to the DoD for more than 50 years, and currently support major defense programs in the U.S. and internationally. We operate and maintain several DoD test centers and provide services and assist in the acquisition and development of systems and equipment for Special Operations Forces, as well as the development of biological, chemical, and nuclear detection and protection systems. 

We maintain enterprise information systems for government and commercial clients worldwide, ranging from the operation of complex computational networks to the development and validation of specific software applications. We also support the DoD and the intelligence community in a number of information technology programs, including network design, integration, and support; command and control technology; development and maintenance of databases and customized applications; and cyber security solutions. 

Buildings & Infrastructure – We provide services to transit, aviation, built environment, mission critical, rail, and civil construction projects throughout North America, Europe, India, the Middle East, Australia, and Asia. Our representative clients include national government departments/agencies in the U.S., U.K., Australia, and Asia, state and local departments of transportation within the U.S., and private industry freight transport firms. 

Typical projects include providing development/rehabilitation plans for highways, bridges, transit, tunnels, airports, railroads, intermodal facilities, and maritime or port projects. Our interdisciplinary teams can work independently or as an extension of the client’s staff. We have experience with alternative financing methods, which have been used in Europe through the privatization of public infrastructure systems. 

Our water infrastructure group aids emerging economies, which are investing heavily in water and wastewater systems, and governments in North America and Europe, which are addressing the challenges of drought and an aging infrastructure system. We develop or rehabilitate critical water resource systems, water/wastewater conveyance systems, and flood defense projects. 

We also plan, design, and construct buildings for a variety of clients and markets. We believe our global presence and understanding of contracting and delivery demands keep us well positioned to provide professional services worldwide. Our diversified client base encompasses both public and private sectors and relates primarily to institutional, commercial, government and corporate buildings, including projects at many of the world's leading medical and research centers, and universities. We focus our efforts and resources in two areas: where capital-spending initiatives drive demand, and where changes and advances in technology require innovative, value-adding solutions. We also provide integrated facility management services (sometimes through joint ventures with third parties) for which we assume responsibility for the ongoing operation and maintenance of entire commercial or industrial complexes on behalf of clients. 

We have specific capabilities in energy and power, master planning, and commissioning of office headquarters, aviation facilities, mission-critical facilities, municipal and civic buildings, courts and correctional facilities, mixed-use and commercial centers, healthcare and education campuses, and recreational complexes. For advanced technology clients, who require highly specialized buildings in the fields of medical research, nano science, biotechnology, and laser sciences, we offer total integrated design and construction management solutions. We also have global capabilities in the pharma-bio, data center, government intelligence, corporate headquarters/interiors, and science and technology-based education markets. Our government building projects include large, multi-year programs in the U.S. and Europe supporting various U.S. and U.K. government agencies. 

We added specialist integrated project services capability through the Aquenta acquisition in Australia in early 2017. These skills include cost management & analysis, project planning & controls, contract & commercial advisory services, and  

Page 9 

project management services. These services are provided across the breadth of Jacobs client sectors with the potential to further expand to other geographies. 

Industrial – We provide engineering, procurement, project management, construction, and on-site maintenance to our global clients in the Life Sciences, Mining & Minerals, Specialty Chemicals & Manufacturing and Field Services markets. We provide our Life Sciences clients single-point consulting, engineering, procurement, construction management, and validation project delivery, enabling us to execute large capital programs on a single-responsibility basis. Typical projects in the life sciences sector include laboratories, research and development facilities, pilot plants, bulk active pharmaceutical ingredient production facilities, full-scale biotechnology production facilities, and tertiary manufacturing facilities. 

We provide services relating to modular construction, as well as other consulting and strategic planning to help our clients complete capital projects faster and more efficiently. 

In addition, we offer services in containment, barrier technology, locally controlled environments, building systems automation, and off-the-site design and fabrication of facility modules, as well as vaccine production and purification, and aseptic processing. 

Our mining and minerals business targets the non-ferrous and ferrous metal markets, precious metals, energy minerals (uranium, coal, oil sands), and industrial and fertilizer minerals (borates, trona, phosphates and potash). We work with many resource companies undertaking new and existing facility upgrades, process plant and underground and surface material handling and infrastructure developments. 

We offer project management, front-end studies, full engineering, procurement and construction management (“EPCM”) and engineering, procurement and construction (“EPC”) capabilities, and completions, commissioning and start-up services specializing in new plant construction, brownfield expansions, and sustaining capital and maintenance projects. We are also able to deliver value to our mining clients by providing distinctive adjacent large infrastructure capabilities to support their mining operations. 

We provide a wide range of specialty chemicals & manufacturing services and products to our global client base. Our specialty chemicals areas are focused on sulfuric acids, synthetic chemicals, and manufactured equipment. Our manufacturing business areas include the Food & Beverage, Consumer Products, and Pulp & Paper markets. 

Our global Field Services unit supports construction and O&M across the company, and performs our direct hire services. 

Our construction activities include both construction management services and traditional field construction services to our clients. Historically, our field construction activities focused primarily on those construction projects where we perform much of the related engineering and design work. However, we pursue construction-only projects when we can negotiate pricing and other contract terms we deem acceptable and which we believe can result in a fair return for the degree of risk we assume. 

In our O&M business, we perform tasks required to operate and maintain large, complex facilities on behalf of clients. We provide key management and support services over all aspects of the operations of a facility, including managing subcontractors and other on-site personnel. O&M also includes process plant maintenance services, which generally involves all tasks required to keep a process plant (typically a refinery or chemical plant) in day-to-day operation. 

Petroleum & Chemicals – We provide integrated delivery of complex projects for our Oil and Gas, Refining, and Petrochemical sector clients. Bridging the upstream, midstream and downstream industries, our end to end services encompass consulting, engineering, design, procurement, construction, commissioning, start-up and maintenance, and project management. 

We provide services relating to both onshore and offshore oil and gas production facilities, including stationary and floating platforms and subsea tie-backs, as well as full field development solutions, including processing facilities, gathering systems, transmission pipelines, storage and terminals. Our heavy oil processing experience makes us a leader in upgrading, steam-assisted gravity drainage and in-situ oil sands projects. We have developed and delivered modular well pad and central processing facility designs. We also provide fit-for-purpose and standardized designs in the onshore conventional and unconventional oil & gas sector, paying particular attention to water and environmental issues. 

Page 10 

In addition, we provide our refining customers with feasibility/economic studies, technology evaluation and conceptual engineering, front end engineering & design, detailed engineering, procurement, construction, commissioning, start-up and maintenance services. We deliver installed EPC solutions to grass root plants, and offer expansions and revamps of existing units. Our focus is on both the inside the battery limit processing units as well as utilities and offsites infrastructure. We have engineering alliances and onsite maintenance programs that span decades with core clients. With the objective of driving our clients’ total installed costs down, we endeavor to leverage emerging market sourcing and high value engineering centers (HVEC). Our Comprimo Sulfur Solutions® is a significant patented technology for gas treatment and sulfur recovery plants around the world. 

We also provide services to technically complex petrochemical facilities; from new manufacturing complexes, to expansions and modifications, and the overall management of plant relocations. We have experience with many licensed chemical processing technologies, integrated basic petrochemicals, commodity and specialty chemicals projects, and olefins, aromatics, synthesis gas and their respective derivatives. 

Backlog 

Backlog represents the total dollar amount of revenues we expect to record in the future as a result of performing work under contracts that have been awarded to us. With respect to O&M contracts, however, we include in backlog the amount of revenues we expect to receive for only one succeeding year, regardless of the remaining life of the contract. For national government programs (other than U.S. federal O&M contracts), our policy is to include in backlog the full contract award, whether funded or unfunded, excluding option periods. In accordance with industry practice, substantially all of our contracts are subject to cancellation, termination, or suspension at the discretion of the client. In addition, the contracts in our backlog are subject to changes in the scope of services to be provided as well as adjustments to the costs relating to the contracts. Accordingly, backlog is not necessarily indicative of our future revenues or earnings. 

Our backlog includes expected revenues for contracts that are based on estimates. The following table summarizes our backlog for the years ended September 29, 2017, September 30, 2016 and October 2, 2015 (in thousands):  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For additional information regarding our backlog including those risk factors specific to backlog, please refer to Item 1A — Risk Factors, and Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. Subject to the factors discussed in Item 1A— Risk Factors below, we estimate that approximately $7 billion, or 35%, of total backlog at September 29, 2017 will be realized as revenues within the next fiscal year. 

Significant Customers 

The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last five fiscal years:  

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Given the percentage of total revenue derived directly from the U.S. federal government, the loss of U.S. federal government agencies as customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. Approximately 88% of revenue derived directly from the U.S. federal government is in the Aerospace & Technology segment. For more information on risks relating to our government contracts, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. 

Page 11 

Financial Information About Geographic Areas 

Selected financial information regarding the geographic areas in which we operate is included in Note 15 — Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference. For fiscal 2017, approximately 42% of our revenues were earned from clients outside the United States. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which are described under Item 1A - Risk Factors below. 

Contracts 

While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into two broad categories: cost-reimbursable and fixed-price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last five fiscal years: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client, which is discussed in greater detail in Item 1A — Risk Factors. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination. 

When we are directly responsible for engineering, design, procurement, and construction of a project or the maintenance of a client’s plant or facility, we reflect the costs of materials, equipment, and subcontracts in both revenues and costs. On other projects, where the client elects to pay for such items directly and we have no associated responsibility for such items, these amounts are not reflected in either revenues or costs. The following table sets forth the approximate amount of such pass-through costs included in revenues for each of the last five fiscal years (in millions of dollars): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Cost-Reimbursable Contracts 

Cost-reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark-up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark-up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract. In general, we prefer cost-reimbursable contracts because we believe the primary reason for awarding a contract to us should be our technical expertise and professional qualifications rather than price. 

Fixed-Price Contracts 

Fixed-price contracts include both “lump sum bid” contracts and “negotiated fixed-price” contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against other contractors based on specifications the client furnishes. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract, and, as such, the Company has rarely entered into individual lump sum bid contracts that are material to its financial results. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed-price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. The Company carefully manages the risk inherent in these types of contracts. Over the past five years, most of our fixed-price work has been either negotiated fixed-price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for project services, rather than turnkey construction. 

Page 12 

Competition 

With respect to each of the four broad categories of services we provide, we compete with a large number of companies across the world. Typically, no single company or companies dominate the market in which we provide any such services. We compete based on the following factors, among others: price of services, technical capabilities, reputation for quality, safety record, availability of qualified personnel, ability to timely perform work, and willingness to accept project-related risk. For more information regarding the competitive conditions in our business, please refer to Item 1A— Risk Factors below. 

Employees 

At September 29, 2017, we had approximately 44,800 full-time, staff employees (including contract staff). Additionally, as of September 29, 2017, there were approximately 9,900 persons employed in the field on a project basis. The number of field employees varies in relation to the number and size of the maintenance and construction projects in progress at any particular time. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

The information required by Paragraph (a), and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K (except for information required by Paragraph (e) of that Item to the extent the required information pertains to our executive officers) and Item 405 of Regulation S-K is set forth under the captions “Members of the Board of Directors” and “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance” in our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year and is incorporated herein by reference. 

The following table presents the information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

(1)  

Mr. Mandel was appointed as Executive Vice President, Integration Management Office on August 2, 2017. Previously, he served as President, Petroleum & Chemicals. 

All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Hagen has served in executive and senior management capacities with the Company for more than five years. Below is additional information on the other executive officers. 

Mr. Demetriou joined the Company in August 2015. Mr. Demetriou served as Chairman and CEO of Aleris Corporation for 14 years, a global downstream aluminum producer based in Cleveland, Ohio. Over the course of his career, he has gained broad experience with companies in a range of industries including metals, specialty chemicals, oil & gas, manufacturing and fertilizers. 

Mr. Berryman joined the Company in December 2014. Mr. Berryman served as EVP and CFO for five years at International Flavors and Fragrances Inc., an S&P 500 company and leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products. Prior to that, he spent 25 years at Nestlé in a number of finance roles including treasury, mergers & acquisitions, strategic planning, and control. 

Mr. Hagen joined the Company in 1987. Mr. Hagen has worked in a number of the Company’s market sectors in both senior operational and sales roles. Prior to becoming President, Aerospace & Technology, he was the Executive Vice President, Global Sales and Marketing. 

Mr. Mandel joined the Company in February 2011 through the acquisition of certain operating companies comprising the process and construction business of Aker Solutions ASA, a global provider of products, systems and services to the oil  

Page 13 

and gas industry. Mr. Mandel served in various senior management roles with Aker Solutions ASA since first joining them in 1995. 

Mr. Pragada rejoined the Company in February 2016 after serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of The Brock Group since August 2014. From March 2006 to August 2014 Mr. Pragada served in executive and senior management capacities with the Company. 

Mr. Allen joined the Company in October 2016. Mr. Allen served as Vice President, Finance and Principal Accounting Officer at Lyondellbasell Industries, N.V. from 2013 to 2016. Prior to that, he was with Albemarle Corporation, where he served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from 2009 to 2013 after serving in CFO roles for their Catalysts and Fine Chemistry businesses from 2005 to 2009. 

Mr. Tyler joined the Company in June 2013. He previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Sanmina Corporation, a global electronics manufacturing services provider from April 2007 to June 2013, and Chief Legal and Administrative Officer of Gateway, Inc., a computer hardware company, from January 2004 to April 2007. 

Available Information 

You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. In order to obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website at www.jacobs.com. 

Page 14 

Item 1A.  

RISK FACTORS