ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as U.S. and non-U.S. economic and financial market conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.  

Instability in the global economy and financial markets may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and liquidity.  

Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. The global economic turmoil that began in 2008 continued through 2009, involving widespread recessionary conditions, record levels of unemployment in some countries and volatility in and tightening of the capital and credit markets. During 2010, the Company began to see signs of an economic recovery in many markets. However, we cannot assure you that these improvements will be broad-based and sustainable and will benefit all of the markets we serve, or that we will not experience further adverse effects from broad economic trends. Instability in the global economy and financial markets can adversely affect the business, results of operations and financial condition of the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of:  

   •    reducing demand for our products and services, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies;  

   •    increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories;  

   •    increasing price competition in our served markets;  

   •    resulting in supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products;  

   •    increasing the risk of impairment of long-lived assets due to underutilized manufacturing capacity; and  

16  

Table of Contents 

   •    increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us.  

Although we have been able to continue accessing the commercial paper markets through the date of this report, if conditions in the financial markets worsen there can be no assurances that the commercial paper markets will remain available to us or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. In addition, the failure of one of more of the syndicate members in our credit facilities could reduce the availability of credit and harm our liquidity.  

The restructuring actions that we have taken to reduce costs could have long-term adverse effects on our business.  

In 2008 and 2009, we implemented significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure. These restructuring activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities have the effect of reducing our available talent, assets and other resources and could slow improvements in our products and technologies, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers and limit our ability to increase production quickly as demand for our products increases. These circumstances could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

Our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality.  

Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly markets into which we sell through distribution). Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns. In addition, in certain of our businesses product demand depends on the customer’s capital spending budget as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities. Any of these factors could adversely affect our growth and results of operations in any given period.  

We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may face decreased demand, decreased market share or price reductions for our products.  

Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and that in many cases have been subject to increasing consolidation. Because of the diversity of products we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; please see “Item 1. Business – Competition” for additional details. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product categories and penetrate new markets, including in developing countries. Our failure to compete effectively may adversely affect our revenues, profitability and cash flow, and pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our revenues and profitability.  

Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation.  

We generally sell our products in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop new products and product enhancements based on technological innovation on a timely basis, our products will become obsolete over time and our revenues, cash flow, profitability and competitive position will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to:  

   •    correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences;  

   •    allocate our research and development funding to products with higher growth prospects;  

   •    anticipate and respond to our competitors’ development of new products and technological innovations;  

17  

Table of Contents 

   •    differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings;  

   •    innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets;  

   •    obtain adequate intellectual property rights;  

   •    successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; and  

   •    encourage customers to adopt new technologies.  

In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products that do not lead to significant revenue. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new products and product enhancements, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer.  

Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price.  

We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price. Promising acquisitions are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the need for regulatory (including antitrust) approvals and the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets. In addition, competition for acquisitions in our business areas is significant and may result in higher purchase prices. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. Our ability to grow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate companies and businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated cost savings.  

Our acquisition of businesses could negatively impact our profitability and return on invested capital.  

As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses in the ordinary course, some of which may be material; please see the section titled “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Investing Activities” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) for additional details. Our acquisitions involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and return on invested capital:  

   •    Any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable.  

   •    Acquisitions could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations in any given period, or over the long-term.  

   •    Acquisition-related earnings charges (including both pre-closing and post-closing charges) could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period.  

   •    Acquisitions could create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are not equipped to handle.  

   •    We could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems and retaining key employees and customers.  

   •    We may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition.  

   •    We may assume by acquisition unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, or internal control deficiencies. The realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations.  

   •    In connection with acquisitions, we often enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results  

   •    As a result of our acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets on our balance sheet. If we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets.  

18  

Table of Contents 

The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities.  

Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position.  

Divestitures could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including potentially dilutive impacts on the Company’s earnings per share and other accounting impacts, potential disputes with buyers and distraction of management. In addition, we have retained responsibility for and/or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some the known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, product liability claims and environmental matters. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue.  

We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets.  

At December 31, 2010, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets totaled approximately $12.2 billion. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may impair these assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized.  

Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar will increase the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products and services purchased overseas. Our sales and expenses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, certain of our businesses may invoice customers in a currency other than the business’ functional currency, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable translation effects.  

Our reputation, ability to do business and results of operations may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners.  

We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits and could damage our reputation.  

Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods.  

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. Please see the section titled “Income Taxes” in the MD&A for a discussion of the factors that may adversely affect our effective tax rate and  

19  

Table of Contents 

 decrease our profitability in any period. The impact of these factors may be substantially different from period to period. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. Due to the ambiguity of tax laws and the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities.  

The Obama administration has announced proposals to tax profits of U.S. companies earned abroad. While it is not possible for us to predict whether any such proposals will be implemented, or how they will ultimately impact us, they may adversely impact our results of operations.  

If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.  

We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our operations. The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not be sufficiently broad or otherwise may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented or designed-around, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property, could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations.  

We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights.  

Third parties may claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services.  

From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position, revenues, profitability and cash flows. Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our profitability and cash flows.  

We are subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings in the course of our business that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

We are subject to a variety of litigation and similar proceedings incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims for damages arising out of the use of our products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage and acquisition-related matters. These lawsuits may include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages and/or injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our financial condition, operations and results of operations. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us  

20  

Table of Contents 

 against such losses. In addition, developments in legal proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, make estimates for matters previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments. Any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows in any particular period.  

Our operations, products and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs and violations that could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.  

Our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the U.S. and abroad in connection with our operations. We cannot assure you that our environmental, health and safety compliance program has been or will be at all times effective. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  

In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances. We may also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Matters.” We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past, present or future business activities.  

Product defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.  

Manufacturing or design defects (including in components that we source from third parties), unanticipated use of our products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of our products can lead to personal injury, death or property damage. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products, result in the removal of a product from the market and result in product liability claims being brought against us. Recalls and product liability claims can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products.  

Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations.  

In addition to the environmental, health and safety regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the federal, state and local levels, including the following:  

   •    We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies. In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory.  

   •    Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the FDA, by comparable agencies of other countries and by regulations governing the management, storage, handling and disposal of (or manufacture and sale of products containing) hazardous or radioactive materials. We cannot  

21  

Table of Contents 

     guarantee that we will be able to obtain clearance for our new products or modifications to existing products, and if we do such clearance may be time-consuming, costly and restrictive. Violations of these regulations, efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products can lead to warning letters, declining sales, recalls, seizures, injunctions, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, suspension or withdrawal of approvals and pre-market notification rescissions. In addition, we are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws.  

   •    We also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. Our agreements with government entities may be subject to termination, reduction or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors. Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process could become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts. Any failure to comply with these requirements could result in suspension of these contracts and the Company’s suspension or debarment from government contracting or subcontracting.  

These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. Failure to comply with these or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, disruptions to our business, limitations on our ability to manufacture, import and export products and services, disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies and damage to our reputation. Compliance with these and other regulations may also require us to incur significant expenses. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the ISO, and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Matters.”  

Our indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow, and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.  

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $2.8 billion in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, based on the credit support provided by our credit facilities as of December 31, 2010, we had the ability to incur an additional $1.35 billion of indebtedness under our outstanding commercial paper facilities. Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including:  

   •    requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and capital investment;  

   •    reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and  

   •    exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates.  

We may incur significantly more debt in the future, particularly in connection with acquisitions. If we add new debt, the risks described above could increase.  

Our current revolving credit facilities and long-term debt obligations impose certain restrictions on us; for more information please refer to the MD&A. If we breach any of these restrictions and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, subject to applicable cure periods the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition.  

22  

Table of Contents 

Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.  

The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets may increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.  

We may incur higher costs to produce our products if commodity prices rise.  

As discussed in “Item 1. Business – Materials,” our manufacturing and other operations employ a wide variety of raw materials. Prices for these raw materials have fluctuated significantly in the past. Due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost-containment efforts of our customers and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, if commodity prices rise we may be unable to fully pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we are unable to fully recover higher raw material costs through price increases or offset these increases through other cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected.  

If we cannot adjust the purchases required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changing market conditions or customer demand, our profitability may suffer. In addition, our reliance upon sole sources of supply for certain materials and components could cause production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies.  

We purchase materials, components and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Our income could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, including those caused by seasonality or cyclicality. During a market upturn, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices. If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet increasing demand, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed or our costs may increase. Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer.  

In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design. If these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply and could face production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies.  

If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity to reflect the demand for our products, our profitability may suffer.  

Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results.  

Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses.  

We compete in markets in which we or our customers must comply with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, food and drugs and electronic communications. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by these regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Any significant change in any of these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our costs of producing these products. In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations. In these markets, the delay or failure of governmental and other entities to adopt or enforce new regulations, or the adoption of new regulations which our products and services are not positioned to address, could adversely affect our growth rate. In addition, the manner in which regulations and related deadlines impact demand for our products may be substantially different from period to period.  

23  

Table of Contents 

We may be unable to adjust to changes in the healthcare industry, some of which could adversely affect our business.  

The healthcare industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce costs. These changes include the recently enacted U.S. legislation on healthcare reform, healthcare austerity measures in Europe, wider implementation of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates. Some of these potential changes may cause healthcare-industry participants to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement available for our products from governmental agencies or third-party payors, reduce the volume of medical procedures or impose excise taxes on medical device companies. These changes could adversely affect our revenues and profitability.  

Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, labor disputes and other matters associated with our labor force could adversely impact our results of operations and cause us to incur incremental costs.  

We have a number of U.S. collective bargaining units and various non-U.S. collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and potential labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations.  

Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns of, key distributors and other channel partners could adversely affect our results of operations.  

Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end-users. Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors’ products, and if they favor our competitors’ products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively. Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners can also significantly impact our results of operations in any given period. In addition, the consolidation of distributors in certain of our served industries, as well as the formation of large and sophisticated purchasing groups in industries such as healthcare, could adversely impact our profitability.  

International economic, political, legal and business factors could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  

In 2010, approximately 55% of our sales were derived from customers outside the U.S. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S. and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the U.S., particularly in emerging markets. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including:  

   •    interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers;  

   •    differences in terms of sale, including payment terms;  

   •    local product preferences and product requirements;  

   •    changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions (including safety and health issues);  

   •    trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements;  

   •    unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws;  

   •    limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash;  

   •    difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations;  

   •    differing labor regulations;  

   •    difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and  

   •    differing protection of intellectual property.  

Any of these risks could negatively affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and growth.  

24  

Table of Contents 

If we suffer loss to our facilities, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe, our operations could be seriously harmed.  

Our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. The third-party insurance coverage that we maintain with respect to these and other risks will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against losses.  

We own a 50% interest in but do not control the Apex Tool Group joint venture, and as a result we may not be able to direct management of the joint venture in a manner that we believe is in Danaher’s best interests.  

In 2010, Danaher and Cooper Industries plc formed a joint venture named Apex Tool Group LLC. Each company contributed its respective tools business to, and received a 50% interest in, the joint venture. Our joint venture partner may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint venture. Since we do not control the joint venture, we may not be able to direct the management and operations of the joint venture in the manner that we believe is most appropriate. In addition, the joint venture agreement gives each party veto rights with respect to certain fundamental corporate actions, and as a result we cannot assure you that we could effect certain fundamental corporate actions that we believe would be in Danaher’s best interests. Any of these circumstances and any conflict that may arise between the parties could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.  

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None  

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES