Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   

The following commentary should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes.  

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  

Description of the Company and Business Segments  

Baxter International Inc. (Baxter or the company), through its subsidiaries, develops, manufactures and markets products that save and sustain the lives of people with hemophilia, immune disorders, infectious diseases, kidney disease, trauma, and other chronic and acute medical conditions. As a global, diversified healthcare company, Baxter applies a unique combination of expertise in medical devices, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology to create products that advance patient care worldwide.  

Prior to 2011, the company operated in three segments: BioScience, Medication Delivery and Renal. The company has combined its former Medication Delivery and Renal businesses into a single global business unit to form the Medical Products segment. Effective January 1, 2011, the company changed its segment presentation to reflect this new structure, and recast all prior periods presented to conform to the new presentation. BioScience processes recombinant and plasma-based proteins to treat hemophilia and other bleeding disorders; plasma-based therapies to treat immune deficiencies, alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, burns and shock, and other chronic and acute blood-related conditions; products for regenerative medicine, such as biosurgery products; and select vaccines. Medical Products manufactures intravenous (IV) solutions and administration sets, premixed drugs and drug-reconstitution systems, pre-filled vials and syringes for injectable drugs, IV nutrition products, infusion pumps, and inhalation anesthetics, as well as provides products and services related to pharmacy compounding, drug formulation and packaging technologies. In addition, the Medical Products business provides products and services to treat end-stage renal disease, or irreversible kidney failure. The business manufactures solutions and other products for peritoneal dialysis (PD), a home-based therapy, and also distributes products for hemodialysis (HD), which is generally conducted in a hospital or clinic.  

Baxter has approximately 48,500 employees and conducts business in over 100 countries. The company generates approximately 60% of its revenues outside the United States, and maintains over 50 manufacturing facilities and over 100 distribution facilities in the United States, Europe, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and Canada.  

Financial Results  

Baxter’s 2011 results reflect the company’s success in generating strong, sustainable operational performance through leveraging the benefits of the diversified and medically necessary nature of the company’s portfolio, advancing its product pipeline and geographic reach through the launch of innovative products, and disciplined execution of the company’s strategies. Despite a challenging global macro-economic and increasingly regulated environment, in 2011 Baxter was able to improve sales growth and profitability, while also accelerating research and development (R&D) spending to record levels and investing in future growth through multiple business development initiatives.  

Baxter’s global net sales totaled $13.9 billion in 2011, an increase of 8% over 2010, including a favorable foreign currency impact of 2 percentage points. International sales totaled $8.2 billion, an increase of 8% over 2010, including a favorable foreign currency impact of 4 percentage points. Sales in the United States totaled $5.7 billion in 2011, an increase of 8% over 2010, including the favorable impact of 4 percentage points from the prior year COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge, as further discussed below.  

Baxter’s net income for 2011 totaled $2.2 billion, or $3.88 per diluted share, compared to $1.4 billion, or $2.39 per diluted share, in the prior year. Net income in 2011 included certain charges which reduced income before income taxes by $374 million and net income by $247 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, as further discussed  

18  

 below. Net income in 2010 included certain charges which reduced net sales by $213 million, income before income taxes by $1.1 billion and net income by $946 million, or $1.59 per diluted share, as further discussed below. On an adjusted basis, excluding these special charges in both years, Baxter’s net income in 2011 was $2.5 billion, which represents an increase of 4% from $2.4 billion in 2010, while earnings per diluted share of $4.31 increased 8% from $3.98 in 2010. Adjusted net income and adjusted earnings per share, each excluding special items, are non-GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures. The company believes that these non-GAAP measures may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and may facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

The company’s results in both years were impacted by costs associated with the company’s execution of certain strategies to optimize its organizational structure. The company continues to implement actions to optimize its overall cost structure on a global basis, including streamlining its international operations, rationalizing its manufacturing facilities and enhancing its general and administrative infrastructure. The company recorded pre-tax business optimization charges of $192 million and $257 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

In 2010, the company’s results were also impacted by a $588 million charge associated with the recall of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market and other actions the company is taking outside of the United States, with $213 million recorded as a reduction of net sales and $375 million recorded in cost of sales. Refer to Note 5 for further information regarding the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge.  

The company also recorded pre-tax charges in 2011 of $79 million related to the resolution of litigation pertaining to average wholesale prices (AWP) and certain historical rebate and discount adjustments, $62 million in asset impairments primarily related to the write-down of Greek government bonds, and $41 million principally related to a contribution to the Baxter International Foundation. In 2010, the company recorded pre-tax charges of $62 million related to litigation, $34 million related to acquired in-process R&D (IPR&D), $28 million to write down accounts receivable in Greece, and $39 million to write off a deferred tax asset as a result of a change in the tax treatment of reimbursements under the Medicare Part D retiree prescription drug subsidy program. Additionally, the company recorded an impairment charge of $112 million in 2010 related to the divestiture of its U.S. multi-source generic injectables business.  

Baxter’s financial results included R&D expenses totaling $946 million in 2011, which reflects the acceleration of R&D spending to advance late-stage development programs aimed at enhancing future growth through clinical differentiation. During the year, the company obtained regulatory approval for new products that will improve clinical outcomes for patients and provide cost and quality-of-life benefits, while also initiating a number of clinical trials of therapies that have the potential to impact the treatment and delivery of care for chronic diseases like hemophilia, end-stage renal disease and immune deficiencies. Refer to the discussion below for further information regarding R&D activity in 2011.  

The company’s financial position remains strong, with cash flows from operations totaling $2.8 billion in 2011. The company has continued to execute on its disciplined capital allocation framework, which was designed to optimize shareholder value creation through targeted capital investments, share repurchases and dividends, as well as acquisitions and other business development initiatives as discussed in Strategic Objectives below.  

Capital investments totaled $960 million in 2011 as the company continues to invest across its businesses to support future growth. The company’s investments in capital expenditures in 2011 were focused on projects that enhance the company’s cost structure and manufacturing capabilities and support its strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets. In addition, the company continues to invest to support its ongoing strategic focus on R&D with the expansion of facilities, pilot manufacturing sites and laboratories. Capital expenditures also included the company’s multi-year initiative to implement a global enterprise resource planning system that will consolidate and standardize business processes, data and systems.  

19  

The company also continued to return value to its shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends. During 2011, the company repurchased 30 million shares of common stock for $1.6 billion, and paid cash dividends to its shareholders totaling $709 million.  

Strategic Objectives  

Baxter continues to focus on several key objectives to successfully execute its long-term strategy to achieve sustainable growth and deliver shareholder value. Baxter’s diversified healthcare model, its broad portfolio of products that treat life-threatening acute or chronic conditions, and its global presence are core components of the company’s strategy to achieve these objectives.  

R&D innovation and scientific productivity continue to be a key strategic priority for Baxter. The company’s investments in R&D reflect its efforts to enhance future growth through clinical differentiation, including the broadening of its hemophilia portfolio with continued innovation; exploration of alternative routes of administration of GAMMAGARD LIQUID [Immune Globulin Infusion (Human)] (marketed as KIOVIG in most markets outside the United States) and expansion of label indications with a focus on neurological disorders; leveraging of recombinant protein expertise to expand the product portfolio; advancing the science of regenerative medicine; and the development of home HD therapy. Key developments in 2011 included the following R&D milestones, product approvals and product launches:  

Product Approvals and Launches  

   •    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval of the subcutaneous administration of GAMMAGARD LIQUID 10% for patients with primary immunodeficiency;  

   •    Regulatory approval in Europe for the extension of the therapeutic indications of KIOVIG to include a new indication for multifocal motor neuropathy, a severe debilitating disorder requiring lifelong treatment;  

   •    FDA approval of ADVATE [Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), Plasma/Albumin-Free Method] for routine prophylaxis to prevent or reduce the frequency of bleeding episodes in adults and children with hemophilia A;  

   •    FDA approval of the expanded indication of ARTISS [Fibrin Sealant (Human)] to include adhering tissue flaps during facial rhytidectomy surgery (face-lift);  

   •    European launch of NUMETA (emulsion for infusion), introduced as the first and only triple-chamber container with formulations specifically designed to meet the range of intravenous nutritional requirements of neonatal and pediatric patients (preterm newborns through age 18);  

   •    Launch of NEXTERONE (amiodarone HCl) Premixed Injection, the first and only ready-to-use premixed IV version of the antiarrhythmic agent amiodarone in the United States; and  

   •    Launch of OLIMEL (Amino Acids, Dextrose and Lipids, with/without Electrolytes) emulsion for infusion in Canada, which is the country’s first triple-chamber container for parenteral nutrition.  

Other Developments  

   •    Filing for regulatory approval in the United States, Europe and Canada for HyQ, Baxter’s investigational immunoglobulin therapy administered subcutaneously and facilitated by recombinant human hyaluronidase, a dispersion and permeation enhancer, for use in patients with primary immunodeficiencies;  

   •    Completion of enrollment for the company’s first Phase III study evaluating GAMMAGARD LIQUID as treatment for Alzheimer’s disease, with plans in 2012 to initiate a second confirmatory Phase III trial;  

20  

   •    Initiation of a Phase III clinical trial to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of BAX 111, Baxter’s investigational recombinant von Willebrand factor (rVWF), for treatment and prevention of bleeding episodes in patients with von Willebrand disease;  

   •    Initiation of clinical trials on a new home HD system, which will provide significant clinical benefits for patients with end-stage kidney disease while extending Baxter’s leadership position in kidney care; and  

   •    Publication of the results of a Phase II clinical trial investigating the use of adult, autologous CD34+ stem cells to reduce the frequency of angina episodes in patients suffering from chronic, severe refractory angina.  

In 2012, the company will continue to invest in its R&D pipeline, supporting the progress of investigational therapies and late-stage clinical development to obtain approvals and launch innovative products in the global marketplace.  

Baxter also plans to augment its internal R&D by making strategic investments in early-stage development through Baxter Ventures, a strategic initiative established in July 2011 to invest up to $200 million in early-stage companies developing products and therapies to accelerate innovation and growth for the company.  

The company plans to further supplement its internal R&D activities and pursue accelerated growth by fully capitalizing on Baxter’s diversified healthcare model with its investment in other business development opportunities, including acquisitions, collaborations and alliances. In 2011, Baxter entered into several business development initiatives, including the following:  

   •    The acquisition of Prism Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Prism), a privately-held specialty pharmaceutical company, and its NEXTERONE product, which expands Baxter’s existing portfolio of premixed drug solutions for use in the acute care setting;  

   •    The exercise of an option under the company’s collaboration agreement for the development of a home HD machine with HHD, LLC (HHD), DEKA Products Limited Partnership and DEKA Research and Development Corp. (collectively, DEKA) to acquire the assets of HHD;  

   •    The acquisition of Baxa Corporation (Baxa), a privately-held company that manufactures and markets devices, systems and software for the safe and efficient preparation, handling, packaging and administration of fluid medications, which complements Baxter’s existing portfolio of nutrition and drug delivery systems and provides Baxter with a comprehensive solution to fulfill the majority of patients’ nutritional requirements and increase efficiency in the pharmacy;  

   •    The execution of a definitive agreement to acquire Synovis Life Technologies, Inc. (Synovis), a publicly-traded company that provides biological and mechanical products for soft tissue repair used in a variety of surgical procedures, which, following the completion of the acquisition in February 2012, will complement and expand the portfolio of Baxter’s regenerative medicine product category; and  

   •    A global collaboration with Momenta Pharmaceuticals, Inc., which was effective in February 2012, to develop and commercialize follow-on biologic products, also known as biosimilars, which replicate existing, branded biologics used in the treatment of a number of diseases, including cancer, autoimmune disorders and other chronic conditions.  

Through continued innovation, investment and collaboration, Baxter seeks to advance new therapies, improve the safety and cost-effectiveness of treatments and expand access to care.  

Baxter also continues to advance a global, multi-year business transformation initiative, with the goal of strengthening the company’s focus on disciplined innovation, commercial effectiveness and operational  

21  

 excellence. As part of this initiative, the company will continue to seek opportunities to optimize its deployment of sales and marketing resources, and re-engineer certain global systems and processes, including quality, regulatory and financial systems, as the company reinvigorates its commitment to continuous improvement.  

The company’s ability to sustain long-term growth and successfully execute the strategies discussed above depends in part on the company’s ability to manage within an increasingly competitive and regulated environment and to address the other risk factors described in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS  

Net Sales  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by 2 percentage points in 2011 principally due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro, the Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen. Foreign currency favorably impacted net sales by 1 percentage point in 2010, as the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Euro was more than offset by the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies, including the Australian Dollar, the Canadian Dollar and the Japanese Yen.  

Total net sales growth in 2011 was favorably impacted by 2 percentage points while growth in 2010 was unfavorably impacted by 2 percentage points due to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge, which reduced net sales in the Medical Products segment in 2010 by $213 million. Refer to Note 5 for further information regarding this charge. In addition, healthcare reform legislation enacted in the United States in the first quarter of 2010 unfavorably impacted sales growth in 2010 by approximately 0.5 percentage points, primarily impacting the Recombinants, Plasma Proteins and Antibody Therapy product categories in the BioScience segment. Similar reform actions undertaken by governments outside the United States also unfavorably impacted sales growth.  

Additionally, included in net sales in the Medical Products segment are sales of $58 million and $198 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business, which was divested by the company in May 2011. The divestiture of this business unfavorably impacted total net sales growth by 1 percentage point in 2011. Refer to Note 3 for further information regarding this divestiture.  

The comparisons presented at constant currency rates reflect comparative local currency sales at the prior year’s foreign exchange rates. This measure provides information on the change in net sales assuming that foreign currency exchange rates have not changed between the prior and the current period.  

The company believes that the non-GAAP measure of change in net sales at constant currency rates, when used in conjunction with the GAAP measure of change in net sales at actual currency rates, may provide a more complete understanding of the company’s operations and can facilitate a fuller analysis of the company’s results of operations, particularly in evaluating performance from one period to another.  

22  

BioScience The following is a summary of net sales by product category in the BioScience segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales in the BioScience segment increased 7% and 1% in 2011 and 2010, respectively (with a favorable foreign currency impact of 2 percentage points in 2011 and no meaningful impact from foreign currency in 2010). Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the principal drivers impacting net sales were the following:  

   •    For the Recombinants product category, sales in both years benefited from improved sales of recombinant therapies in the United States, primarily as a result of the continued adoption of the company’s advanced recombinant therapy, ADVATE. Sales growth in both years was partially offset by lower tender sales in the United Kingdom and, in 2010, a reduction in distributor inventory levels in the United States.  

   •    Sales in the Plasma Proteins product category increased in both years, driven by demand for FEIBA (an anti-inhibitor coagulant complex) and, in 2011, improved demand for plasma-derived factor VIII after a reduction in sales in 2010. Partially offsetting this growth in both years were lower sales of albumin, particularly in the United States.  

   •    Sales in the Antibody Therapy product category in both years were favorably impacted by increased sales of GAMMAGARD LIQUID, the liquid formulation of the antibody-replacement therapy immunoglobulin product, driven by improved demand and incremental volume resulting from a competitor being out of the market. Sales growth in 2010 was fully offset by market share loss and pricing actions the company took during the year, as well as the termination of a distribution agreement for WinRho® SDF [Rho(D) Immune Globulin Intravenous (Human)] effective July 1, 2010.  

   •    In the Regenerative Medicine product category, sales growth in both years was driven by increased sales of surgical sealant products, including FLOSEAL and TISSEEL. Sales growth in 2010 was also driven by sales of ACTIFUSE as a result of the company’s first quarter 2010 acquisition of ApaTech Ltd. (ApaTech). Refer to Note 4 for additional information regarding the ApaTech acquisition.  

   •    In the Other product category, strong 2011 sales of FSME-IMMUN (a tick-borne encephalitis vaccine) driven by strong international demand were more than offset by lower influenza revenues, as the first quarter of 2010 benefited from sales of CELVAPAN H1N1 pandemic vaccine. Sales declined in 2010 primarily due to lower international sales of FSME-IMMUN and NEISVAC-C (for the prevention of meningitis C).  

23  

Medical Products The following is a summary of net sales by product category in the Medical Products segment.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net sales in the Medical Products segment increased 9% and 3% in 2011 and 2010, respectively (with a favorable foreign currency impact of 3 percentage points in 2011 and 2 percentage points in 2010). Excluding the impact of foreign currency, the principal drivers impacting net sales were the following:  

   •    In the Renal product category, sales growth in both years was driven by gains in the number of PD patients globally, primarily related to continued penetration of PD Therapy products in emerging markets with historically under-treated patient populations with end-stage renal disease. Sales growth in 2011 was partially offset by PD patient losses in the United States to another service provider. In 2010, international sales of HD therapies increased related to the company’s 2009 acquisition of certain assets of Edwards Lifesciences Corporation related to the hemofiltration business (Edwards CRRT). Refer to Note 4 for additional information regarding this acquisition.  

   •    Within the Global Injectables product category, the divestiture of the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business unfavorably impacted total net sales growth by 9 percentage points during 2011. Refer to Note 3 for further information regarding this divestiture. Excluding the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business, sales growth in both 2011 and 2010 was driven by strong sales of certain enhanced packaging products and growth in the company’s U.S. pharmaceutical partnering and international pharmacy compounding businesses.  

   •    IV Therapies sales growth in both years was driven by improved pricing and increased demand for IV solutions and nutritional products. Contributing to growth were market share gains in the United States in both years, partially as a result of competitor supply issues. Additionally, sales growth in 2011 was favorably impacted by the fourth quarter acquisition of Baxa.  

   •    In the Infusion Systems product category, sales growth in 2011 reflected increased sales of Sigma International General Medical Apparatus, LLC (SIGMA) Spectrum infusion pumps, partially offset by lower global sales of access sets, used in the administration of IV solutions, in the second half of the year. Sales growth in 2011 was also favorably impacted by the sales decline in 2010, which was driven primarily by the $213 million charge against sales in the first quarter of 2010 related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market and lower sales of access sets and COLLEAGUE infusion pumps. The COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge favorably impacted total net sales growth in 2011 by 33 percentage points and unfavorably impacted total net sales growth in 2010 by 25 percentage points. Refer to Note 5 for further information on the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge.  

   •    Within the Anesthesia product category, sales growth in 2011 reflected continued expansion in international markets and was partially offset by lower demand for inhaled anesthetics in the United States resulting from declines in surgical procedures in the marketplace, as well as competitive pricing pressures for generic sevoflurane. Sales growth in 2010 was driven by increased sales of sevoflurane and SUPRANE (desflurane), as the company continued to benefit from its position as the only global supplier of all three modern inhaled anesthetics (SUPRANE, sevoflurane and isoflurane).  

24  

Transition Services to Fenwal Inc. Net sales in this category represent revenues associated with manufacturing, distribution and other services provided by the company to Fenwal Inc. (Fenwal) subsequent to the divestiture of the Transfusion Therapies (TT) business in February 2007. Refer to Note 12 for additional information regarding the TT business divestiture.  

Gross Margin and Expense Ratios  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Gross Margin  

During 2011, the gross margin percentage improved primarily as a result of the $588 million charge in 2010 related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market, which unfavorably impacted 2010 gross margin percentage by 3.7 percentage points. The gross margin percentage in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was unfavorably impacted by business optimization charges, of which $95 million, $132 million, and $30 million were recorded in cost of sales in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. These charges impacted the gross margin percentage by 0.7, 1.0 and 0.2 percentage points in 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  

In addition to the factors above, the gross margin percentage in 2011 benefited from favorable business mix due to sales growth of select higher margin products in the BioScience and Medical Products segments, as well as the favorable impact of the divestiture of the lower margin U.S. multi-source generic injectables business. Partially offsetting these improvements were costs associated with manufacturing issues at the Castlebar, Ireland facility and an increase in pension plan costs in 2011, as described below.  

In addition to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump and business optimization charges in 2010, the gross margin percentage in 2010 declined as a result of lower prices for certain plasma protein (including Antibody Therapy) products, cost inefficiencies driven by lower volume throughput for plasma-based therapies and vaccines, lower sales of high margin vaccines and healthcare reform in the United States and abroad. These items were partially offset by improved sales mix across other product lines, as well as a benefit from foreign currency.  

Refer to Note 3 for further information regarding the divestiture and Note 5 for further information regarding the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge.  

Marketing and Administrative Expenses  

The marketing and administrative expense ratio increased in both 2011 and 2010. The slight increase in the marketing and administrative expense ratio in 2011 was driven primarily by charges of $79 million related to the resolution of litigation pertaining to AWP and certain rebate and discount adjustments related to historical price reporting submissions and $41 million principally related to a contribution to the Baxter International Foundation. Additionally, the marketing and administrative expense ratio was impacted by the $192 million business optimization charge, of which $97 million was recorded in marketing and administrative expenses. In total, these charges unfavorably impacted the marketing and administrative expense ratio by 1.6 percentage points in 2011.  

The increase in the marketing and administrative expense ratio in 2010 was driven by the $588 million COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge (of which $213 million was recorded to sales), the $257 million business optimization charge (of which $125 million was recorded in marketing and administrative expenses), and a $28 million charge to write down accounts receivable in Greece. In total, these charges unfavorably impacted the marketing and administrative expense ratio by 1.5 percentage points in 2010.  

The ratio in both years was favorably impacted by leverage from higher sales and the company’s continued focus on controlling discretionary spending, offset by increased spending relating to certain marketing and promotional programs and increased pension plan costs, as described below.  

25  

Refer to Note 5 for further information about the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge, Note 7 for further information regarding the Greece receivable charge, and Note 11 for further information regarding the AWP litigation and historical price reporting charge.  

Pension Plan Costs  

Fluctuations in pension plan costs impacted the company’s gross margin and expense ratios. Pension plan costs increased $53 million in 2011 and $15 million in 2010, as detailed in Note 9. The increase in both 2011 and 2010 was primarily due to lower interest rates used to discount the plans’ projected benefit obligations and an increase in amortization of actuarial losses. The increases in 2011 and 2010 were partially offset by cash contributions of $150 million and $350 million made to the pension plan in the United States in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  

Costs of the company’s pension plans are expected to increase from $223 million in 2011 to approximately $266 million in 2012, principally due to lower interest rates used to discount the plans’ projected benefit obligations, a decrease in the expected return on plan assets assumption, and an increase in amortization of actuarial losses. As of December 31, 2011, the total actuarial loss that has been deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income increased to $2.1 billion from $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2010, driven by prior years’ losses on plan assets and a decrease in the discount rate assumption for the U.S. pension plan from 5.45% to 4.80%. As a result, the amortization of these deferred losses is expected to increase in 2012 to $208 million from $174 million in 2011. Also contributing to the increase in the expected pension plan costs in 2012 is a reduction in the expected return on plan assets from 8.25% in 2011 to 7.75% in 2012. Refer to Note 9 for further information on the pension plans.  

Research and Development  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

R&D expenses increased in 2011 and decreased slightly in 2010. The increase in R&D expenses in 2011 was driven by the company’s continued investment in a number of late-stage R&D programs across its product pipeline, as described in additional detail in the Strategic Objectives section above. Also contributing to the increase in R&D expenses in 2011 was the impact of foreign currency.  

The reduction in R&D expenses in 2010 was due to the completion of clinical work on late-stage programs, lower milestone payments to partners and efforts to reposition projects to gain organizational efficiencies. Partially offsetting the decrease in R&D expense in 2010 was the impact of foreign currency. R&D expenses in 2010 included IPR&D charges totaling $34 million, principally related to the licensing and acquisition of the hemophilia-related intellectual property and other assets of Archemix Corp. (Archemix). Refer to Note 4 for more information regarding this transaction.  

Net Interest Expense  

Net interest expense decreased $33 million and $11 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively, principally due to an increase in interest income in both years. Also contributing to the decrease in net interest expense during 2011 was the impact of lower weighted-average interest rates due to the maturity of Baxter’s 4.75% $500 million notes in October 2010. Refer to Note 2 for a summary of the components of net interest expense for the three years ended December 31, 2011.  

Other Expense, Net  

Other expense, net was $83 million in 2011, $159 million in 2010 and $45 million in 2009. Refer to Note 2 for a table that details the components of other expense, net for the three years ended December 31, 2011. Other  

26  

 expense, net in each year included amounts relating to equity method investments and foreign currency fluctuations, principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in a foreign currency.  

During 2011, other expense, net included asset impairment charges totaling $62 million primarily related to the write-down of Greek government bonds. Included in other expense, net in 2010 was an impairment charge of $112 million associated with the company’s divestiture of its U.S. multi-source generic injectables business and a charge of $62 million associated with litigation related to the company’s 2008 recall of its heparin sodium injection products in the United States.  

Pre-Tax Income  

Refer to Note 12 for a summary of financial results by segment. The following is a summary of significant factors impacting the segments’ financial results.  

BioScience Pre-tax income increased 8% in 2011 and decreased 2% in 2010. During 2011, sales growth for certain higher margin products and improved margins on plasma-based therapies were partially offset by an increase in spending on new marketing and promotional programs. Also contributing to the increase in pre-tax income were lower inventory reserves related to vaccine products in 2011.  

During 2010, sales growth for select higher margin products was more than offset by pricing pressures for certain plasma protein (including Antibody Therapy) products, manufacturing cost inefficiencies for plasma-based therapies and vaccines, the impact of healthcare reform and increased inventory reserves. Also contributing to the decline in pre-tax income was an expansion of certain sales resources and increased spending on new marketing and promotional programs.  

Medical Products Pre-tax income increased 128% in 2011 and decreased 37% in 2010. Included in pre-tax income in 2010 were the first quarter 2010 charge of $588 million related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market, the third quarter 2010 U.S. multi-source generic injectables business impairment charge of $112 million and the fourth quarter 2010 charge of $62 million related to litigation associated with the company’s 2008 recall of its heparin sodium injection products in the United States. Pre-tax income in 2011 benefited from sales growth for certain higher margin products, which was partially offset by increased R&D spending and costs associated with manufacturing issues at the company’s Castlebar, Ireland facility.  

The decrease in pre-tax income in 2010 due to the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge and the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business impairment charge was partially offset by sales growth across multiple product categories, gross margin improvements, a reduction in R&D spending due to optimization efforts and the favorable impact of foreign currency.  

Refer to Note 3 for further information on the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business impairment charge and Note 5 for further information on the COLLEAGUE infusion pump charge.  

Other Certain income and expense amounts are not allocated to a segment. These amounts are detailed in the table in Note 12 and primarily include net interest expense, certain foreign exchange fluctuations (principally relating to intercompany receivables, payables and loans denominated in foreign currency) and the majority of the foreign currency hedging activities, corporate headquarters costs, stock compensation expense, income and expense related to certain non-strategic investments, certain employee benefit plan costs, certain nonrecurring gains and losses, certain charges (such as the business optimization, AWP litigation and historical price reporting, asset impairment, and certain IPR&D charges), contributions to the Baxter International Foundation, and the revenues and costs related to the manufacturing, distribution and other transition agreements with Fenwal.  

27  

Refer to Note 8 for further information regarding stock compensation expense, Note 11 for further information regarding the AWP litigation and historical price reporting charge, Note 7 for further information on the Greece receivable charge, and the previous discussion for further information regarding net interest expense.  

Income Taxes  

Effective Income Tax Rate  

The effective income tax rate was 20% in 2011, 25% in 2010 and 19% in 2009. The company anticipates that the effective income tax rate, calculated in accordance with GAAP, will be approximately 22% in 2012, excluding any impact from additional audit developments or other special items.  

The company’s effective tax rate differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate each year due to certain operations that are subject to tax incentives, state and local taxes and foreign taxes that are different than the U.S. federal statutory rate. In addition, as discussed further below, the company’s effective income tax rate can be impacted in each year by discrete factors or events. Refer to Note 10 for further information regarding the company’s income taxes.  

2011  

The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2011 was principally due to a charge of $588 million in 2010 related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market for which there was no net tax benefit recognized, a $39 million write-off of a deferred tax asset in 2010 as a result of a change in the tax treatment of reimbursements under the Medicare Part D retiree prescription drug subsidy program under healthcare reform legislation enacted in the United States and $34 million of IPR&D charges in 2010 for which the tax benefit was lower than the U.S. statutory rate. Also contributing to the decrease in the effective tax rate in 2011 were the tax benefits from the business optimization charge, the AWP litigation and historical price reporting charge, and other charges in 2011, which were incurred in jurisdictions with rates higher than the effective rate. These items were partially offset by the 2010 tax benefits from the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business impairment charge, the business optimization charge and a charge related to litigation associated with the company’s 2008 recall of its heparin sodium injection products in the United States.  

2010  

The increase in the effective tax rate in 2010 was principally due to a $588 million charge related to the recall of COLLEAGUE infusion pumps from the U.S. market for which there was no tax benefit recognized, a $39 million write-off of a deferred tax asset as a result of a change in the tax treatment of reimbursements under the Medicare Part D retiree prescription drug subsidy program under healthcare reform legislation enacted in the United States, a charge related to tax contingencies, and $34 million of IPR&D charges for which the tax benefit was lower than the United States statutory rate. These items were partially offset by the tax benefits from the U.S. multi-source generic injectables business impairment charge, the business optimization charge and a charge related to litigation associated with the company’s 2008 recall of its heparin sodium injection products in the United States, in addition to a change in the earnings mix from higher tax to lower tax rate jurisdictions compared to the prior year period.  

2009  

The effective tax rate for 2009 was impacted by greater income in jurisdictions with higher tax rates, partially offset by $51 million of income tax benefit from the use of foreign tax losses.  

Uncertain Tax Positions  

Baxter expects to reduce the amount of its liability for uncertain tax positions within the next 12 months by approximately $302 million due principally to the resolution of certain multi-jurisdictional transfer pricing issues and the resolution of tax contingencies in certain foreign jurisdictions. While the final outcome of these matters is inherently uncertain, the company believes it has made adequate tax provisions for all years subject to examination.  

28  

Income and Earnings per Diluted Share Amounts  

Net income attributable to Baxter was $2.2 billion in 2011, $1.4 billion in 2010 and $2.2 billion in 2009. The corresponding net earnings per diluted share were $3.88 in 2011, $2.39 in 2010 and $3.59 in 2009. The significant factors and events causing the net changes from 2010 to 2011 and from 2009 to 2010 are discussed above. Additionally, net income attributable to Baxter per diluted share was positively impacted by the repurchase of 30 million shares in both 2011 and 2010 and 23 million shares in 2009. Refer to Note 8 for further information regarding the company’s stock repurchases.  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES  

Cash Flows from Operations  

Cash flows from operations totaled $2.8 billion in 2011, $3.0 billion in 2010 and $2.9 billion in 2009. The decrease in cash flows in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to the factors discussed below and was partially offset by higher earnings (before non-cash items). The increase in cash flows in 2010 from 2009 was primarily due to higher earnings (before non-cash items) and the other factors discussed below.  

Accounts Receivable  

Cash flows relating to accounts receivable decreased in 2011 and increased in 2010. Days sales outstanding were 53.5 days, 52.5 days, and 51.2 days for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increases in both 2011 and 2010 were primarily due to longer collection periods in certain international markets and the geographic mix of sales. Days sales outstanding in the United States in each of the three years were less than 30 days.  

Inventories  

Cash flows from inventories decreased in 2011 and increased in 2010. The following is a summary of inventories at December 31, 2011 and 2010, as well as inventory turns by segment for 2011, 2010 and 2009. Inventory turns for the year are calculated as the annualized fourth quarter cost of sales divided by the year-end inventory balance.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The increase in inventories in 2011 was principally due to higher work-in-process plasma-related inventories in the BioScience segment, as well as higher inventories of the SIGMA Spectrum infusion pump in the Medical Products segment.  

The lower inventory turns for the total company in 2011 were driven by the increase in inventories and were partially offset by the favorable impact of the 2011 business optimization charge. Of the total charge, $95 million was recorded in costs of sales, which favorably impacted total company turns by 0.15. The higher inventory turns for the total company in 2010 were driven by a reduction of plasma-related inventories in the BioScience segment, as well as the favorable impact of the 2010 business optimization charge. Of the total charge, $132 million was recorded in cost of sales, which increased total company turns by 0.23. Refer to Note 5 for further information regarding this charge.  

Other  

Payments related to the execution of the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall and the company’s business optimization initiatives increased $237 million and $35 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Refer to Note 5  

29  

 for more information regarding the COLLEAGUE infusion pump recall and the business optimization initiatives. Other cash inflows increased to $8 million in 2011 from other cash outflows of $182 million in 2010, principally due to cash inflows related to the termination of interest rate swaps and lower discretionary pension contributions to the U.S. pension plan. Cash contributions to the company’s pension plans totaled $251 million, $416 million and $170 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and included discretionary cash contributions to the company’s U.S. pension plan of $150 million, $350 million, and $100 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

Cash Flows from Investing Activities  

Capital Expenditures  

Capital expenditures totaled $960 million in 2011, $963 million in 2010 and $1.0 billion in 2009. The company’s investments in capital expenditures in 2011 were focused on projects that enhance the company’s cost structure and manufacturing capabilities and support its strategy of geographic expansion with select investments in growing markets. In addition, the company continues to invest to support the company’s ongoing strategic focus on R&D with the expansion of facilities, pilot manufacturing sites and laboratories. Capital expenditures also included the company’s multi-year initiative to implement a global enterprise resource planning system that will consolidate and standardize business processes, data and systems.  

The company makes investments in capital expenditures at a level sufficient to support the strategic and operating needs of the businesses, and continues to improve capital allocation discipline in making investments to enhance long-term growth. The company expects to invest approximately $1.0 billion in capital expenditures in 2012.  

Acquisitions and Investments  

Net cash outflows relating to acquisitions and investments were $590 million in 2011, $319 million in 2010 and $156 million in 2009.  

The cash outflows in 2011 principally related to cash outflows of $360 million related to the acquisition of Baxa and $170 million associated with the acquisition of Prism, as well as an $18 million payment to exercise an option related to the company’s collaboration agreement for the development of a home HD machine with HHD and DEKA. Also included in cash outflows in 2011 were cash outflows of $18 million related to an investment in the common stock of Enobia Pharma Corporation (Enobia) and a $10 million payment related to the arrangement with Ceremed, Inc. (Ceremed). Refer to Note 4 for further information about the Baxa and Prism acquisitions and the DEKA agreement, Note 7 for further information about the investment in Enobia, and Note 2 for further information about the Ceremed arrangement.  

The cash outflows in 2010 principally included a net cash outflow of $235 million related to the acquisition of ApaTech. Also included in net cash outflows in 2010 were payments of $30 million related to the licensing and acquisition of hemophilia-related intellectual property and other assets from Archemix, $28 million related to a manufacturing, supply and distribution agreement with Kamada Ltd. for GLASSIA, and $18 million related to the company’s collaboration agreement for the development of a home HD machine with DEKA.  

The cash outflows in 2009 principally related to a $100 million payment for the exclusive distribution of SIGMA’s infusion pumps in the United States and international markets, a 40 percent equity stake in SIGMA and an option to purchase the remaining portion of SIGMA. Additionally, in 2009 the company acquired Edwards CRRT for $56 million. Refer to Note 4 for further information regarding the acquisitions of and investments in ApaTech, Archemix, SIGMA and Edwards CRRT.  

Divestitures and Other  

Net cash inflows relating to divestitures and other activities were $123 million in 2011, $18 million in 2010 and $24 million in 2009. Cash inflows in 2011 principally consisted of proceeds associated with the company’s  

30  

 divestiture of its U.S. multi-source generic injectables business in May 2011. Cash inflows in 2010 principally consisted of proceeds from the divestiture of certain Renal Therapy Services centers in Australia. Cash inflows in 2009 principally consisted of cash collections related to the company’s securitization arrangements.  

Cash Flows from Financing Activities  

Debt Issuances, Net of Payments of Obligations  

Net cash inflows related to debt and other financing obligations were $733 million in 2011, $91 million in 2010, and $473 million in 2009.  

In December 2011, the company issued $500 million of senior notes, maturing in January 2017 and bearing a 1.85% coupon rate. In addition, during 2011, the company issued and redeemed commercial paper, of which $250 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2011, with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.24%. In March 2010, the company issued $600 million of senior notes, with $300 million maturing in March 2013 and bearing a 1.8% coupon rate and $300 million maturing in March 2020 and bearing a 4.25% coupon rate. In February 2009, the company issued $350 million of senior notes, which mature in March 2014 and bear a 4.0% coupon rate. In August 2009, the company issued $500 million of senior notes, which mature in August 2019 and bear a 4.5% coupon rate. The net proceeds from these issuances were used for general corporate purposes, including in some cases the refinancing of indebtedness. The debt instruments are unsecured and include certain covenants, including restrictions relating to the company’s creation of secured debt.  

In 2010, the company repaid $500 million of its 4.75% notes and settled related cross-currency swaps, both upon their maturity in October 2010, resulting in a cash outflow of $545 million. In 2009, the company repaid approximately $160 million of outstanding borrowings related to the company’s Euro-denominated credit facility (further discussed below).  

Other Financing Activities  

Cash dividend payments totaled $709 million in 2011, $688 million in 2010 and $632 million in 2009. In November 2009, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.29 per share ($1.16 per share on an annualized basis), representing an increase of 12% over the previous quarterly rate. In November 2010, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share ($1.24 per share on an annualized basis), representing an increase of 7% over the previous quarterly rate. In November 2011, the board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.335 per share ($1.34 per share on an annualized basis), which was paid on January 4, 2012 to shareholders of record as of December 9, 2011. The dividend represented an increase of approximately 8% over the previous quarterly rate of $0.31 per share.  

Proceeds and realized excess tax benefits from stock issued under employee benefit plans totaled $448 million in 2011 and $381 million in both 2010 and 2009. The increase in 2011 was due to increases in stock option exercises and the weighted-average exercise price, partially offset by a decrease in realized excess tax benefits. In 2010, an increase in stock option exercises was offset by a decrease in realized excess tax benefits. Realized excess tax benefits, which were $21 million in 2011, $41 million in 2010 and $96 million in 2009, are presented in the consolidated statements of cash flows as an outflow in the operating section and an inflow in the financing section.  

As authorized by the board of directors, the company repurchases its stock from time to time depending on the company’s cash flows, net debt level and market conditions. The company purchased 30 million shares for $1.6 billion in 2011, 30 million shares for $1.5 billion in 2010 and 23 million shares for $1.2 billion in 2009. In July 2009 and December 2010, the board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.0 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, of the company’s common stock. At December 31, 2011, $1.4 billion remained available under the December 2010 authorization. There was no remaining availability under the July 2009 authorization.  

31  

Credit Facilities, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings  

Credit Facilities  

In 2011, the company refinanced its primary revolving credit facility agreement, which was scheduled to mature in December 2011. The new credit facility has a maximum capacity of $1.5 billion and matures in June 2015. Commitment fees under the new credit facility are not material. The company also maintains a Euro-denominated credit facility with a maximum capacity of approximately $396 million at December 31, 2011, which matures in January 2013. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, there were no outstanding borrowings under any of the company’s facilities. The company’s facilities enable the company to borrow funds on an unsecured basis at variable interest rates (determined, in part, by the company’s credit ratings) and contain various covenants, including a maximum net-debt-to-capital ratio. At December 31, 2011, the company was in compliance with the financial covenants in these agreements. The non-performance of any financial institution supporting either of the credit facilities would reduce the maximum capacity of these facilities by each institution’s respective commitment. The company also maintains other credit arrangements, as described in Note 6.  

Access to Capital  

The company intends to fund short-term and long-term obligations as they mature through cash on hand, future cash flows from operations or by issuing additional debt. The company had $2.9 billion of cash and equivalents at December 31, 2011, with adequate cash available to meet operating requirements in each jurisdiction in which the company operates. The company invests its excess cash in certificates of deposit and money market funds, and diversifies the concentration of cash among different financial institutions.  

The company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations, issue debt or enter into other financing arrangements on acceptable terms could be adversely affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company’s products or in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, deterioration in the company’s key financial ratios or credit ratings or other significantly unfavorable changes in conditions. However, the company believes it has sufficient financial flexibility to issue debt, enter into other financing arrangements and attract long-term capital on acceptable terms to support the company’s growth objectives.  

The company continues to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy, that have experienced a deterioration in credit and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2011, the company’s net accounts receivable from the public sector in Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy totaled $524 million. While the economic downturn has not significantly impacted the company’s ability to collect receivables, global economic conditions and liquidity issues in certain countries have resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the collection of receivables and credit losses. The company recorded a charge of $28 million in the second quarter of 2010 to write down its accounts receivable in Greece principally as a result of the Greek government’s announcement of a plan to convert certain past due receivables into non-interest bearing bonds with maturities of one to three years. The charge was computed by taking into consideration, among other factors, the imputed discount of the outstanding receivables based upon publically traded Greek government bonds with similar terms and was included in marketing and administrative expenses. Global economic conditions, governmental actions and customer-specific factors may require the company to re-evaluate the collectibility and valuation of its receivables which could result in additional credit losses.  

With respect to the Greek government bonds, the company collected $17 million in December 2011 upon the maturity of the first tranche of the bonds. However, as a result of continued economic uncertainty and ongoing Greek government negotiations regarding the settlement terms for outstanding bonds, the company recorded an impairment charge of $41 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 to reduce the remaining Greek government bonds held by the company to estimated fair value. The estimated fair value of these bonds was calculated using a discounted cash flow model that incorporates observable inputs, including interest rate yields.  

32  

Credit Ratings  

The company’s credit ratings at December 31, 2011 were as follows.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

There were no changes in the company’s credit ratings or outlook in 2011.  

If Baxter’s credit ratings or outlooks were to be downgraded, the company’s financing costs related to its credit arrangements and any future debt issuances could be unfavorably impacted. However, any future credit rating downgrade or change in outlook would not affect the company’s ability to draw on its credit facilities, and would not result in an acceleration of the scheduled maturities of any of the company’s outstanding debt, unless, with respect to certain debt instruments, preceded by a change in control of the company.  

Contractual Obligations  

As of December 31, 2011, the company had contractual obligations, excluding accounts payable and accrued liabilities (other than the current portion of unrecognized tax benefits), payable or maturing in the following periods.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 1   Interest payments on debt and capital lease obligations are calculated for future periods using interest rates in effect at the end of 2011. Projected interest payments include the related effects of interest rate swap agreements. Certain of these projected interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations or other factors or events. The projected interest payments only pertain to obligations and agreements outstanding at December 31, 2011. Refer to Notes 6 and 7 for further discussion regarding the company’s debt instruments and related interest rate agreements outstanding at December 31, 2011.  

 2   The primary components of other long-term liabilities in the company’s consolidated balance sheet are liabilities relating to pension and other postemployment benefit plans, litigation, foreign currency hedges, and certain income tax-related liabilities. The company projected the timing of the future cash payments based on contractual maturity dates (where applicable) and estimates of the timing of payments (for liabilities with no contractual maturity dates). The actual timing of payments could differ from the estimates.  

The company contributed $251 million, $416 million and $170 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Most of the company’s plans are funded. The timing of funding in the future is uncertain and is dependent on future movements in interest rates and investment returns, changes in laws and regulations, and other variables. Therefore, the table above excludes pension plan cash outflows. The pension plan balance included in other long-term liabilities (and excluded from the table above) totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2011.  

33  

 3   Includes the company’s significant contractual unconditional purchase obligations. For cancelable agreements, includes any penalty due upon cancellation. These commitments do not exceed the company’s projected requirements and are in the normal course of business. Examples include firm commitments for raw material purchases, utility agreements and service contracts.  

 4   Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, the long-term liability relating to unrecognized tax benefits of $169 million at December 31, 2011 has been excluded from the table above.  

 5   Excludes contingent liabilities, including contingent milestone payments of $794 million associated with joint development and commercialization arrangements and contingent payments of $356 million associated with acquisitions, as well as the company’s unfunded commitment at December 31, 2011 of $49 million as a limited partner in an investment company. These amounts have been excluded from the contractual obligations above due to uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of future payments. Refer to Note 4 and Note 6 for additional information regarding these commitments.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

Baxter periodically enters into off-balance sheet arrangements. Certain contingencies arise in the normal course of business, and are not recorded in the consolidated balance sheet in accordance with GAAP (such as contingent joint development and commercialization arrangement payments). Also, upon resolution of uncertainties, the company may incur charges in excess of presently established liabilities for certain matters (such as contractual indemnifications). For a discussion of the company’s significant off-balance sheet arrangements, refer to Note 6 for information regarding joint development and commercialization arrangements and indemnifications, Note 7 regarding receivable securitizations and Note 11 regarding legal contingencies.  

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK  

The company operates on a global basis and is exposed to the risk that its earnings, cash flows and equity could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. The company’s hedging policy attempts to manage these risks to an acceptable level based on the company’s judgment of the appropriate trade-off between risk, opportunity and costs. Refer to Note 7 for further information regarding the company’s financial instruments and hedging strategies.  

Currency Risk  

The company is primarily exposed to foreign exchange risk with respect to recognized assets and liabilities, forecasted transactions and net assets denominated in the Euro, Japanese Yen, British Pound, Australian Dollar, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real and Colombian Peso. The company manages its foreign currency exposures on a consolidated basis, which allows the company to net exposures and take advantage of any natural offsets. In addition, the company uses derivative and nonderivative financial instruments to further reduce the net exposure to foreign exchange. Gains and losses on the hedging instruments offset losses and gains on the hedged transactions and reduce the earnings and shareholders’ equity volatility relating to foreign exchange. Financial market and currency volatility may limit the company’s ability to cost-effectively hedge these exposures.  

The company may use options, forwards and cross-currency swaps to hedge the foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions denominated in foreign currencies and recognized assets and liabilities. The maximum term over which the company has cash flow hedge contracts in place related to forecasted transactions at December 31, 2011 is 18 months. The company also enters into derivative instruments to hedge certain intercompany and third-party receivables and payables and debt denominated in foreign currencies.  

Currency restrictions enacted in Venezuela require Baxter to obtain approval from the Venezuelan government to exchange Venezuelan Bolivars for U.S. Dollars and require such exchange to be made at the official exchange  

34  

 rate established by the government. On January 8, 2010, the Venezuelan government devalued the official exchange rate of 2.15 relative to the U.S. Dollar. The official exchange rate for imported goods classified as essential, such as food and medicine, was changed to 2.6, while the rate for payments for non-essential goods was changed to 4.3. In 2010, the majority of the company’s products imported into Venezuela were classified as essential goods and qualified for the 2.6 rate. Effective January 1, 2011, the Venezuelan government devalued the official currency for imported goods classified as essential to 4.3. Since January 1, 2010, Venezuela has been designated as a highly inflationary economy under GAAP and as a result, the functional currency of the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela is the U.S. Dollar. The devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar and designation of Venezuela as highly inflationary did not have a material impact on the financial results of the company. As of December 31, 2011, the company’s subsidiary in Venezuela had net assets of $28 million denominated in the Venezuelan Bolivar. In 2011, net sales in Venezuela represented less than 1% of Baxter’s total net sales.  

As part of its risk-management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential changes in the fair value of its foreign exchange instruments relating to hypothetical and reasonably possible near-term movements in foreign exchange rates.  

A sensitivity analysis of changes in the fair value of foreign exchange option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2011, while not predictive in nature, indicated that if the U.S. Dollar uniformly fluctuated unfavorably by 10% against all currencies, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $32 million with respect to those contracts would decrease by $44 million, resulting in a net liability position. A similar analysis performed with respect to option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010 indicated that, on a net-of-tax basis, the net asset balance of $6 million would decrease by $41 million, resulting in a net liability position.  

The sensitivity analysis model recalculates the fair value of the foreign exchange option and forward contracts outstanding at December 31, 2011 by replacing the actual exchange rates at December 31, 2011 with exchange rates that are 10% unfavorable to the actual exchange rates for each applicable currency. All other factors are held constant. These sensitivity analyses disregard the possibility that currency exchange rates can move in opposite directions and that gains from one currency may or may not be offset by losses from another currency. The analyses also disregard the offsetting change in value of the underlying hedged transactions and balances.  

Interest Rate and Other Risks  

The company is also exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates. The company’s policy is to manage interest costs using a mix of fixed- and floating-rate debt that the company believes is appropriate. To manage this mix in a cost-efficient manner, the company periodically enters into interest rate swaps in which the company agrees to exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between fixed and floating interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon notional amount. The company also periodically uses forward-starting interest rate swaps and treasury rate locks to hedge the risk to earnings associated with fluctuations in interest rates relating to anticipated issuances of term debt.  

As part of its risk management program, the company performs sensitivity analyses to assess potential gains and losses in earnings relating to hypothetical movements in interest rates. A 25 basis-point increase in interest rates (approximately 10% of the company’s weighted-average interest rate during 2011) affecting the company’s financial instruments, including debt obligations and related derivatives, would have an immaterial effect on the company’s 2011, 2010 and 2009 earnings and on the fair value of the company’s fixed-rate debt as of the end of each fiscal year.  

As discussed in Note 7, the fair values of the company’s long-term litigation liabilities and related insurance receivables were computed by discounting the expected cash flows based on currently available information. A 10% movement in the assumed discount rate would have an immaterial effect on the fair values of those assets and liabilities.  

35  

With respect to the company’s investments in affiliates, the company believes any reasonably possible near-term losses in earnings, cash flows and fair values would not be material to the company’s consolidated financial position.  

CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

Refer to Note 1 for information on newly issued accounting standards.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. A summary of the company’s significant accounting policies is included in Note 1. Certain of the company’s accounting policies are considered critical because these policies are the most important to the depiction of the company’s financial statements and require significant, difficult or complex judgments by the company, often requiring the use of estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results that differ from the company’s estimates could have an unfavorable effect on the company’s results of operations and financial position. The company applies estimation methodologies consistently from year to year. Other than changes required due to the issuance of new accounting pronouncements, there have been no significant changes in the company’s application of its critical accounting policies during 2011. The company’s critical accounting policies have been reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. The following is a summary of accounting policies that the company considers critical to the consolidated financial statements.  

Revenue Recognition and Related Provisions and Allowances  

The company’s policy is to recognize revenues from product sales and services when earned. Refer to Note 1 for additional information regarding the company’s accounting policy for revenue recognition, including the company’s accounting for arrangements in which it commits to delivering multiple products or services to its customers.  

Provisions for discounts, rebates to customers, chargebacks to wholesalers, and returns are provided for at the time the related sales are recorded, and are reflected as a reduction of sales. These estimates are reviewed periodically and, if necessary, revised, with any revisions recognized immediately as adjustments to sales.  

The company periodically and systematically evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable and determines the appropriate reserve for doubtful accounts. In determining the amount of the reserve, the company considers historical credit losses, the past-due status of receivables, payment history and other customer-specific information, and any other relevant factors or considerations.  

The company also provides for the estimated costs that may be incurred under its warranty programs when the cost is both probable and reasonably estimable, which is at the time the related revenue is recognized. The cost is determined based on actual company experience for the same or similar products as well as other relevant information. Estimates of future costs under the company’s warranty programs could change based on developments in the future. The company is not able to estimate the probability or amount of any future developments that could impact the reserves, but believes presently established reserves are adequate.  

Pension and Other Postemployment Benefit (OPEB) Plans  

The company provides pension and other postemployment benefits to certain of its employees. These employee benefit expenses are reported in the same line items in the consolidated income statement as the applicable employee’s compensation expense. The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost for the plans are calculated using actuarial assumptions. These assumptions are reviewed annually, and revised if appropriate.  

36  

 The significant assumptions include the following:  

   •    interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities;  

   •    the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets;  

   •    rates of increases in employee compensation (used in estimating liabilities);  

   •    anticipated future healthcare costs (used in estimating the OPEB plan liability); and  

   •    other assumptions involving demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover (used in estimating liabilities).  

Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term and long-term historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of the valuation (also called the measurement date). The use of different assumptions would result in different measures of the funded status and net cost. Actual results in the future could differ from expected results. The company is not able to estimate the probability of actual results differing from expected results, but believes its assumptions are appropriate.  

The company’s key assumptions are listed in Note 9. The most critical assumptions relate to the plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees, because these plans are the most significant to the company’s consolidated financial statements.  

Discount Rate Assumption  

For the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans, at the measurement date (December 31, 2011), the company used a discount rate of 4.80% and 4.75% to measure its benefit obligations for the pension plans and OPEB plan, respectively. These discount rates will be used in calculating the net periodic benefit cost for these plans for 2012. The company used a broad population of approximately 260 Aa-rated corporate bonds as of December 31, 2011 to determine the discount rate assumption. All bonds were denominated in U.S. Dollars, with a minimum amount outstanding of $50 million. This population of bonds was narrowed from a broader universe of over 500 Moody’s Aa rated, non-callable (or callable with make-whole provisions) bonds by eliminating the top 10th percentile and bottom 40th percentile to adjust for any pricing anomalies and to represent the bonds Baxter would most likely select if it were to actually annuitize its pension and OPEB plan liabilities. This portfolio of bonds was used to generate a yield curve and associated spot rate curve, to discount the projected benefit payments for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. The discount rate is the single level rate that produces the same result as the spot rate curve.  

For plans in Canada, Japan, the United Kingdom and the Eurozone, the company uses a method essentially the same as that described for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans. For the company’s other international plans, the discount rate is generally determined by reviewing country- and region-specific government and corporate bond interest rates.  

To understand the impact of changes in discount rates on pension and OPEB plan cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point (i.e., one-half of one percent) increase (decrease) in the discount rate, global pre-tax pension and OPEB plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $49 million.  

Return on Plan Assets Assumption  

In measuring net periodic cost for 2011, the company used a long-term expected rate of return of 8.25% for the pension plans covering U.S. and Puerto Rico employees. For measuring the net periodic benefit cost for these plans for 2012, this assumption will decrease to 7.75%. This assumption is not applicable to the company’s OPEB plan because it is not funded.  

The company establishes the long-term asset return assumption based on a review of historical compound average asset returns, both company-specific and relating to the broad market (based on the company’s asset allocation), as well as an analysis of current market and economic information and future expectations.  

37  

 The current asset return assumption is supported by historical market experience for both the company’s actual and targeted asset allocation. In calculating net pension cost, the expected return on assets is applied to a calculated value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years. The difference between this expected return and the actual return on plan assets is a component of the total net unrecognized gain or loss and is subject to amortization in the future.  

To understand the impact of changes in the expected asset return assumption on net cost, the company performs a sensitivity analysis. Holding all other assumptions constant, for each 50 basis point increase (decrease) in the asset return assumption, global pre-tax pension plan cost would decrease (increase) by approximately $20 million.  

Other Assumptions  

The company used the RP 2000 mortality table to calculate the pension and OPEB plan benefit obligations for its plans in the United States and Puerto Rico. For all other pension plans, the company utilized country and region-specific mortality tables to calculate the plans’ benefit obligations. The company periodically analyzes and updates its assumptions concerning demographic factors such as retirement, mortality and turnover, considering historical experience as well as anticipated future trends.  

The assumptions relating to employee compensation increases and future healthcare costs are based on historical experience, market trends, and anticipated future company actions. Refer to Note 9 for information regarding the sensitivity of the OPEB plan obligation and the total of the service and interest cost components of OPEB plan cost to potential changes in future healthcare costs.  

Legal Contingencies  

The company is involved in product liability, patent, commercial, regulatory and other legal proceedings that arise in the normal course of business. Refer to Note 11 for further information. The company records a liability when a loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate, the minimum amount in the range is accrued. If a loss is not probable or a probable loss cannot be reasonably estimated, no liability is recorded. The company has established reserves for certain of its legal matters. The company is not able to estimate the amount or range of any loss for certain of the legal contingencies for which there is no reserve or additional loss for matters already reserved. The company also records any insurance recoveries that are probable of occurring. At December 31, 2011, total legal liabilities were $300 million and total related receivables were $145 million.  

The company’s loss estimates are generally developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based on analyses of potential results. With respect to the recording of any insurance recoveries, after completing the assessment and accounting for the company’s legal contingencies, the company separately and independently analyzes its insurance coverage and records any insurance recoveries that are probable of occurring at the gross amount that is expected to be collected. In performing the assessment, the company reviews available information, including historical company-specific and market collection experience for similar claims, current facts and circumstances pertaining to the particular insurance claim, the financial viability of the applicable insurance company or companies, and other relevant information.  

While the liability of the company in connection with certain claims cannot be estimated with any certainty, and although the resolution in any reporting period of one or more of these matters could have a significant impact on the company’s results of operations and cash flows for that period, the outcome of these legal proceedings is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial position. While the company believes it has valid defenses in these matters, litigation is inherently uncertain, excessive verdicts do occur, and the company may in the future incur material judgments or enter into material settlements of claims.  

38  

Deferred Tax Asset Valuation Allowances and Reserves for Uncertain Tax Positions  

The company maintains valuation allowances unless it is more likely than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax asset will be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in the company’s tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, the company evaluates factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings, carryback and carryforward periods, and tax strategies that could potentially enhance the likelihood of realization of a deferred tax asset. The realizability assessments made at a given balance sheet date are subject to change in the future, particularly if earnings of a subsidiary are significantly higher or lower than expected, or if the company takes operational or tax planning actions that could impact the future taxable earnings of a subsidiary.  

In the normal course of business, the company is audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and is periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges relate to the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. The company believes the company’s tax positions comply with applicable tax law and the company intends to defend its positions. In evaluating the exposure associated with various tax filing positions, the company records reserves for uncertain tax positions in accordance with GAAP, based on the technical support for the positions, the company’s past audit experience with similar situations, and potential interest and penalties related to the matters. The company’s results of operations and effective tax rate in a given period could be impacted if, upon final resolution with taxing authorities, the company prevailed in positions for which reserves have been established, or was required to pay amounts in excess of established reserves.  

Valuation of Intangible Assets, Including IPR&D  

The company acquires intangible assets and records them at fair value. Valuations are generally completed for business acquisitions using a discounted cash flow analysis, incorporating the stage of completion. The most significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the discounted cash flow analysis include the amount and timing of projected future cash flows, the discount rate used to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows, the assessment of the asset’s life cycle, and the competitive and other trends impacting the asset, including consideration of technical, legal, regulatory, economic and other factors. Each of these factors and assumptions can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset.  

Acquired IPR&D is the value assigned to acquired technology or products under development which have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use.  

Acquired IPR&D included in a business combination is capitalized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. Development costs incurred after the acquisition are expensed as incurred. Upon receipt of regulatory approval of the related technology or product, the indefinite-lived intangible asset is then accounted for as a finite-lived intangible asset and amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life. If the R&D project is abandoned, the indefinite-lived asset is charged to expense.  

IPR&D acquired in transactions that are not business combinations is expensed immediately. For such transactions, payments made to third parties subsequent to regulatory approval are capitalized and amortized over the remaining useful life of the related asset, and are classified as intangible assets.  

Due to the inherent uncertainty associated with R&D projects, there is no assurance that actual results will not differ materially from the underlying assumptions used to prepare discounted cash flow analyses, nor that the R&D project will result in a successful commercial product.  

Impairment of Assets  

Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment reviews annually, and whenever indicators of impairment exist. Intangible assets other than goodwill and other long-lived assets (such as fixed assets) are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Refer to Note 1 for further information. The company’s impairment  

39  

 reviews are based on an estimated future cash flow approach that requires significant judgment with respect to future volume, revenue and expense growth rates, changes in working capital use, foreign currency exchange rates, the selection of an appropriate discount rate, asset groupings, and other assumptions and estimates. The estimates and assumptions used are consistent with the company’s business plans and a market participant’s views of the company and similar companies. The use of alternative estimates and assumptions could increase or decrease the estimated fair values of the assets, and potentially result in different impacts to the company’s results of operations. Actual results may differ from the company’s estimates.  

Stock-Based Compensation Plans  

Stock-based compensation cost is estimated at the grant date based on the fair value of the award, and the cost is recognized as expense ratably over the substantive vesting period. Determining the appropriate fair value model to use requires judgment. Determining the assumptions that enter into the model is highly subjective and also requires judgment. The company’s stock compensation costs primarily relate to awards of stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance share units (PSUs). The company uses the Black-Scholes model for estimating the fair value of stock options, and significant assumptions include long-term projections regarding stock price volatility, employee exercise, post-vesting termination and pre-vesting forfeiture behaviors, interest rates and dividend yields. The fair value of RSUs is equal to the quoted price of the company’s common stock on the date of grant. The company uses a Monte Carlo model for estimating the fair value of PSUs, and significant inputs include the risk-free rate, volatility of returns and correlation of returns. Refer to Note 8 for additional information.  

CERTAIN REGULATORY MATTERS  

In July 2010, the FDA issued a final order regarding the recall of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps currently in use in the United States. The company expects to complete the recall by July 2012. As discussed in Note 5, the company has recorded a number of charges in connection with its COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, including related to the FDA’s order and other actions the company is undertaking outside the United States. It is possible that substantial additional cash and non-cash charges, including significant asset impairments related to the COLLEAGUE infusion pumps and related businesses, may be required in future periods based on new information, changes in estimates, the implementation of the recall in the United States, and other actions the company may be required to undertake in markets outside of the United States.  

In June 2010, the company received a Warning Letter from the FDA in connection with an inspection of its Renal business’s McGaw Park, Illinois headquarters facility. The Warning Letter pertains to the processes by which the company analyzes and addresses product complaints through corrective and preventative actions, and reports relevant information to the FDA. The company is working with the FDA to resolve these matters.  

In January 2011, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) announced the review of Dianeal, Extraneal and Nutrineal PD solutions manufactured in the company’s Castlebar, Ireland facility due to the potential presence of endotoxins in certain batches. In September 2011, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use issued a positive opinion on the actions the company has taken to resolve the matter. In December 2011, the Article 31 referral procedure of the European Union Commission was formally closed allowing the Castlebar facility to begin supplying the European Union. The company is now in the process of transitioning the supply of Dianeal, Extraneal and Nutrineal for the European market from other manufacturing sites to the Castlebar facility.  

While the company continues to work to resolve the issues described above, there can be no assurance that additional costs or civil and criminal penalties will not be incurred, that additional regulatory actions with respect to the company will not occur, that the company will not face civil claims for damages from purchasers or users, that substantial additional charges or significant asset impairments may not be required, that sales of other products may not be adversely affected, or that additional regulation will not be introduced that may adversely affect the company’s operations and consolidated financial statements. Please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional discussion of regulatory matters.  

40  

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION  

This annual report includes forward-looking statements, including statements with respect to accounting estimates and assumptions, litigation-related matters including outcomes, the recall of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps, future regulatory filings and the company’s R&D pipeline, strategic plans including with respect to the company’s global, multi-year business transformation initiative, credit exposure to foreign governments, potential developments with respect to credit ratings, estimates of liabilities including those related to uncertain tax positions, contingent payments, future pension plan contributions, costs, discount rates and rates of return, the company’s exposure to financial market volatility and foreign currency and interest rate risk, geographic expansion, business development activities, future capital and R&D expenditures, the impact of healthcare reform, the sufficiency of the company’s financial flexibility, the adequacy of credit facilities, tax provisions and reserves, the effective tax rate in 2012, and all other statements that do not relate to historical facts. The statements are based on assumptions about many important factors, including:  

   •    demand for and market acceptance risks for and competitive pressures related to new and existing products, such as ADVATE and plasma-based therapies (including Antibody Therapy), and other therapies;  

   •    fluctuations in supply and demand and the pricing of plasma-based therapies;  

   •    the impact of U.S. healthcare reform and other similar actions undertaken by foreign governments with respect to pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies;  

   •    additional legislation, regulation and other governmental pressures in the United States or globally, which may affect pricing, reimbursement, taxation and rebate policies of government agencies and private payers or other elements of the company’s business;  

   •    future actions of third parties, including third-party payors, as healthcare reform and other similar measures are implemented in the United States and globally;  

   •    the company’s ability to identify business development and growth opportunities;  

   •    product quality or patient safety issues, leading to product recalls, withdrawals, launch delays, sanctions, seizures, litigation, or declining sales;  

   •    future actions of the FDA, EMA or any other regulatory body or government authority that could delay, limit or suspend product development, manufacturing or sale or result in seizures, injunctions, monetary sanctions or criminal or civil liabilities, including any sanctions available under the Consent Decree entered into with the FDA concerning the COLLEAGUE and SYNDEO infusion pumps;  

   •    implementation of the FDA’s final July 2010 order to recall all of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps currently in use in the United States as well as any additional actions required globally;  

   •    the company’s ability to fulfill demand for SIGMA’s Spectrum infusion pump;  

   •    fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates;  

   •    product development risks, including satisfactory clinical performance, the ability to manufacture at appropriate scale, and the general unpredictability associated with the product development cycle;  

   •    the ability to enforce the company’s patent rights or patents of third parties preventing or restricting the company’s manufacture, sale or use of affected products or technology;  

   •    the impact of geographic and product mix on the company’s sales;  

   •    the impact of competitive products and pricing, including generic competition, drug reimportation and disruptive technologies;  

   •    inventory reductions or fluctuations in buying patterns by wholesalers or distributors;  

41  

   •    the availability and pricing of acceptable raw materials and component supply;  

   •    global regulatory, trade and tax policies;  

   •    any changes in law concerning the taxation of income, including income earned outside the United States;  

   •    actions by tax authorities in connection with ongoing tax audits;  

   •    the company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits of its business optimization and transformation initiatives;  

   •    the successful implementation of the company’s global enterprise resource planning system;  

   •    the company’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits from its joint product development and commercialization arrangements;  

   •    changes in credit agency ratings;  

   •    the impact of global economic conditions on the company and its customers and suppliers, including foreign governments in certain countries in which the company operates; and  

   •    other factors identified elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including those factors described in Item 1A and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, all of which are available on the company’s website.  

Actual results may differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. The company does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.  

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.