Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, shareholders or prospective investors should carefully consider the following risk factors. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer.  

If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  

We operate in highly competitive and innovative businesses. We need to successfully introduce new products to achieve our strategic business objectives. The development and acquisition of innovative products and technologies that improve efficacy, safety, patients’ and clinicians’ ease of use and cost-effectiveness involve significant technical and business risks. The success of new product offerings will depend on many factors, including our ability to properly anticipate and satisfy customer needs, adapt to new technologies, obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis, demonstrate satisfactory clinical results, manufacture products in an economic and timely manner, and differentiate our products from those of our competitors. If we cannot successfully introduce new products, adapt to changing technologies or anticipate changes in our current and potential customers’ requirements, our products may become obsolete and our business could suffer.  

We are subject to a number of existing laws and regulations, non-compliance with which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment.  

As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and products, and those of our customers, are regulated by numerous government agencies, both inside and outside the United States. The impact of this on us is direct, to the extent we are subject to these laws and regulations, and indirect in that in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations.  

Any new product must undergo lengthy and rigorous testing and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities. Our facilities must be approved and licensed prior to production and remain subject to inspection from time to time thereafter. Failure to comply with the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities, including a failed inspection or a failure in our adverse event reporting system, could result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt the manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. Any of these actions could cause a loss of customer confidence in us and our products, which could adversely affect our sales. In addition, requirements of the FDA and other regulatory authorities are subject to change and compliance with additional requirements may result in product launch delays and otherwise increase our costs.  

We continue to address a number of regulatory issues as discussed further under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with these issues, there can be no assurance that additional costs or civil and criminal penalties will not be incurred, that additional regulatory actions with respect to the company will not occur, that the company will not face civil claims for damages from purchasers or users, that substantial additional charges or significant asset impairments may not be required, that sales of other products may not be adversely affected, or that additional regulation will not be introduced that may adversely affect the company’s operations and consolidated financial statements.  

6  

The sales and marketing of products and relationships that pharmaceutical and medical device companies have with healthcare providers are under increasing scrutiny by federal, state and foreign government agencies. The FDA, OIG, DOJ and the Federal Trade Commission have each increased their enforcement efforts (including joint efforts) with respect to the Anti-Kickback Statute, False Claims Act, off-label promotion of products, other healthcare related laws, antitrust and other competition laws. The DOJ also has increased its focus on the enforcement of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), particularly as it relates to the conduct of pharmaceutical companies. Foreign governments have also increased their scrutiny of pharmaceutical companies’ sales and marketing activities and relationships with healthcare providers. The laws and standards governing the promotion, sale and reimbursement of our products and those governing our relationships with healthcare providers and governments can be complicated, are subject to frequent change and may be violated unknowingly. We have compliance programs in place, including policies, training and various forms of monitoring, designed to address these risks. Nonetheless, these programs and policies may not always protect us from conduct by individual employees that violate these laws. Violations, or allegations of violations, of these laws may result in large civil and criminal penalties, debarment from participating in government programs, diversion of management time, attention and resources and may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information related to the Company’s ongoing government investigations, please refer to Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Issues with product quality could have an adverse effect upon our business, subject us to regulatory actions and costly litigation and cause a loss of customer confidence in us or our products.  

Our success depends upon the quality of our products. Quality management plays an essential role in determining and meeting customer requirements, preventing defects, improving the company’s products and services and maintaining the integrity of the data that supports the safety and efficacy of our products. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to maintain and continuously improve our quality management program, that includes an objective and systematic process for monitoring and the evaluation of key effectiveness indicators. While we have one quality system deployed globally that covers the lifecycle of our products, quality and safety issues may occur with respect to any of our products. Unaffiliated third party suppliers provide a number of goods and services to our R&D, clinical and manufacturing organizations. Third party suppliers are required to comply with our quality standards. Failure of a third party supplier to provide compliant raw materials or supplies could result in delays, service interruptions or other quality related issues that may negatively impact our business results. In addition, some of the raw materials employed in our production processes are derived from human and animal origins, requiring robust controls to eliminate the potential for introduction of pathogenic agents or other contaminants.  

A quality or safety issue could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and may result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals and licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals and licenses. An inability to address a quality or safety issue in an effective and timely manner may also cause negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence in us or our current or future products, which may result in the loss of sales and difficulty in successfully launching new products.  

For more information on regulatory matters currently being addressed by the company, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Implementation of the FDA order to recall our COLLEAGUE infusion pumps in the United States may adversely affect our business.  

Pursuant to the Consent Decree entered into by the company in June 2006, the FDA issued a final order in July 2010 regarding the recall of the company’s COLLEAGUE infusion pumps currently in use in the United States. The company is executing the recall by offering its customers an option to replace their COLLEAGUE infusion  

7  

 pumps or receive monetary consideration. Under the replacement option, the company’s customers may receive the Sigma International General Medical Apparatus, LLC (SIGMA) Spectrum infusion pumps in exchange for their COLLEAGUE infusion pumps. For more information on the COLLEAGUE recall, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Certain Regulatory Matters” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The company cannot be certain that SIGMA will have sufficient production capacity to meet the demand for SIGMA Spectrum infusion pumps. Customers choosing a refund or for whom sufficient replacement pumps are unavailable are likely to move to a competitive infusion pump platform. Many of the company’s COLLEAGUE customers also purchase a variety of products from the company’s Medical Products business. If a significant number of COLLEAGUE customers move to a competitive pump platform, our business may suffer and sales of other products in the company’s Medical Products portfolio may be adversely affected. In addition, it is possible that substantial additional cash and non-cash charges, including significant asset impairments related to the COLLEAGUE infusion pumps and related businesses, may be required in future periods based on new information, changes in estimates, the implementation of the recall in the United States, and other actions the company may be required to undertake in markets outside the United States.  

The implementation of healthcare reform in the United States may adversely affect our business.  

The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Act), which was signed into law in March 2010, includes several provisions which impact the company’s businesses in the United States, including increased Medicaid rebates and an expansion of the 340B Drug Pricing Program which provides certain qualified entities, such as hospitals serving disadvantaged populations, with discounts on the purchase of drugs for outpatient use and an excise tax on the sale of certain drugs and medical devices. In 2011, the company became subject to a tax on the sales of its pharmaceutical products to the government. In 2013, the company will be required to pay a 2.3% tax on sales of certain of its medical devices. The impact of the increased Medicaid rebates and the expanded 340B Drug Pricing Program is largely expected to impact the company’s BioScience business, while the additional taxes are expected to impact both of the company’s business segments. We may also experience downward pricing pressure as the Act reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals. While it is intended to expand health insurance coverage and increase access to medical care generally, the long-term impact of the Act on our business and the demand of our products is uncertain. Similarly, we cannot predict the impact of the additional regulations that need to be established to implement many of the Act’s provisions.  

If reimbursement for our current or future products is reduced or modified in the United States or abroad, our business could suffer.  

Sales of our products depend, in part, on the extent to which the costs of our products are paid by health maintenance, managed care, pharmacy benefit and similar healthcare management organizations, private health coverage insurers and other third-party payors. These healthcare management organizations and third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We may continue to experience continued downward pricing pressures from third-party payors which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operational results.  

The imposition of austerity measures or other reforms by foreign governments may limit, reduce or eliminate payments for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and demand for our products. Accordingly, our current and future products may not be considered cost effective, and reimbursement to the consumer may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. Legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement for our products may change at any time and in ways that are difficult to predict and these changes may be adverse to us.  

We face substantial competition across each of our product categories.  

Although no single company competes with us in all of our businesses, we face substantial competition in both of our segments from international and domestic healthcare and pharmaceutical companies of all sizes. Competition  

8  

 is primarily focused on cost-effectiveness, price, service, product performance, and technological innovation. Competition may increase further as additional companies begin to enter our markets or modify their existing products to compete directly with ours. If our competitors respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, our products may be rendered obsolete or non-competitive. If our competitors develop more effective or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we do, our operations will likely be negatively affected. If we are forced to reduce our prices due to increased competition, our business will become less profitable. The company’s sales could be adversely affected if any of its contracts with group purchasing organizations, integrated delivery networks or other customers are terminated due to increased competition or otherwise.  

We also face competition for marketing, distribution and collaborative development agreements, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions, and for licenses to intellectual property. In addition, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations may also conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for discovery, research, clinical development and marketing of products similar to ours. These companies and institutions compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. If we are unable to successfully compete with these companies and institutions, our business may suffer.  

The nature of producing plasma-based therapies may prevent us from timely responding to market forces and effectively managing our production capacity.  

The production of plasma-based therapies is a lengthy and complex process. Efforts to increase the collection of plasma or the production of plasma-based therapies may include the construction and regulatory approval of additional plasma collection facilities and/or plasma fractionation facilities, which can be a lengthy regulatory and capital intensive process. As a result, our ability to match our collection and production of plasma-based therapies to market demand is imprecise and may result in a failure to meet the market demand for our plasma-based therapies or potentially an oversupply of inventory. Failure to meet market demand for our plasma-based therapies may result in customers transitioning to available competitive products resulting in a loss of segment share or customer confidence. In the event of an oversupply we may be forced to lower the prices we charge for some of our plasma-based therapies, close collection and processing facilities, record asset impairment charges or take other action which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

If we are unable to obtain sufficient components or raw materials on a timely basis or if we experience other manufacturing difficulties, our business may be adversely affected.  

The manufacture of our products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amounts of quality components and materials. We manufacture our products in more than 50 manufacturing facilities around the world. We acquire our components and materials from many suppliers in various countries. While efforts are made to diversify our sources of components and materials, in certain instances we acquire components and materials from a sole supplier. We work closely with our suppliers to ensure the continuity of supply but we cannot guarantee these efforts will always be successful. In addition, due to the regulatory environment in which we operate, we may be unable to quickly establish additional or replacement sources for some components or materials. A reduction or interruption in supply, and an inability to develop alternative sources for such supply, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture our products in a timely or cost-effective manner, and our ability to make product sales.  

Many of our products are difficult to manufacture. This is due to the complex nature of manufacturing pharmaceuticals, including biologics, and devices, as well as the strict regulatory regime governing our manufacturing operations. Variations in the manufacturing process may result in production failures which could lead to launch delays, product shortage, unanticipated costs, lost revenues and damage to our reputation.  

9  

 A failure to identify and address manufacturing problems prior to the release of products to our customers may also result in warning letters, product recalls or seizures, monetary sanctions, injunctions to halt manufacture and distribution of products, civil or criminal sanctions, refusal of a government to grant approvals or licenses, restrictions on operations or withdrawal of existing approvals or licenses.  

Several of our products are manufactured at a single manufacturing facility. Loss or damage to a manufacturing facility due to a natural disaster or otherwise could adversely affect our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities of key products to meet customer demand or contractual requirements which may result in a loss of revenue and other adverse business consequences. Because of the time required to approve and license a manufacturing facility a third party manufacturer may not be available on a timely basis to replace production capacity in the event we lose manufacturing capacity due to natural disaster, regulatory action or otherwise.  

If we are unable to protect our patents or other proprietary rights, or if we infringe the patents or other proprietary rights of others, our competitiveness and business prospects may be materially damaged.  

Patent and other proprietary rights are essential to our business. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain and enforce patents and licenses to patent rights, both in the United States and in other countries. We cannot guarantee that pending patent applications will result in issued patents, that patents issued or licensed will not be challenged or circumvented by competitors, that our patents will not be found to be invalid or that the intellectual property rights of others will not prevent the company from selling certain products or including key features in the company’s products.  

The patent position of a healthcare company is often uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. Significant litigation concerning patents and products is pervasive in our industry. Patent claims include challenges to the coverage and validity of our patents on products or processes as well as allegations that our products infringe patents held by competitors or other third parties. A loss in any of these types of cases could result in a loss of patent protection or the ability to market products, which could lead to a significant loss of sales, or otherwise materially affect future results of operations.  

We also rely on trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and know-how to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive positions. While we protect our proprietary rights to the extent possible, we cannot guarantee that third parties will not know, discover or independently develop equivalent proprietary information or techniques, or that they will not gain access to our trade secrets or disclose our trade secrets to the public. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that we can maintain and protect unpatented proprietary information and trade secrets. Misappropriation or other loss of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs.  

If our business development activities are unsuccessful, our business could suffer and our financial performance could be adversely affected.  

As part of our long-term growth strategy, we are engaged in business development activities including evaluating acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities. These activities may result in substantial investment of the company’s resources. Our success developing products or expanding into new markets from such activities will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to find suitable opportunities for acquisition, investment or alliance; whether we are able to complete an acquisition, investment or alliance on terms that are satisfactory to us; the strength of the other company’s underlying technology, products and ability to execute its business strategies; any intellectual property and litigation related to these products or technology; and our ability to successfully integrate the acquired company, business, product, technology or research into our existing operations, including the ability to adequately fund acquired in-process research and development projects. If we are unsuccessful in our business development activities, we may be unable to meet our financial targets and our financial performance could be adversely affected.  

10  

We are subject to risks associated with doing business globally.  

Our operations, both inside and outside the United States, are subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations and customs of various jurisdictions and geographies. These risks include fluctuations in currency exchange rates, changes in exchange controls, loss of business in government and public tenders that are held annually in many cases, nationalization, increasingly complex labor environments, expropriation and other governmental actions, availability of raw materials, changes in taxation, importation limitations, export control restrictions, changes in or violations of U.S. or local laws, including the FCPA, dependence on a few government entities as customers, pricing restrictions, economic and political instability, disputes between countries, diminished or insufficient protection of intellectual property, and disruption or destruction of operations in a significant geographic region regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest. Failure to comply with, or material changes to, the laws and regulations that affect our global operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  

We are subject to foreign currency exchange risk.  

In 2011, we generated approximately 60% of our revenue outside the United States. We anticipate that revenue from outside the United States will continue to be significant. As a result, our financial results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Market volatility and currency fluctuations may limit our ability to cost-effectively hedge against our foreign currency exposure and, in addition, there are limitations in our ability to hedge our exposure to currency fluctuations in certain emerging markets. Governments may impose currency restrictions limiting our ability to manage our foreign currency exposure. We cannot predict with any certainty changes in foreign currency exchange rates or the degree to which we can mitigate these risks. A discussion of the financial impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations, and the ways and extent to which we attempt to mitigate such impact, including the impact of restrictions on currency exchange imposed by the Venezuelan government, is contained under the caption “Financial Instrument Market Risk” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities may have a negative impact on our operating results.  

Tax policy reform continues to be a topic of discussion in the United States. A significant change to the tax system in the United States, including changes to the taxation of international income, could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations. Because we operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States, we are subject to tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcome of these audits, and as a result the actual outcome of these audits may have an adverse impact on our financial results.  

We may experience difficulties implementing our new global enterprise resource planning system.  

We are engaged in a multi-year implementation of a new global enterprise resource planning system (ERP). The ERP is designed to accurately maintain the company’s books and records and provide information to the company’s management team important to the operation of the business. The company’s ERP has required, and will continue to require, the investment of significant human and financial resources. We may not be able to successfully implement the ERP without experiencing significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the ERP could adversely affect our ability to process orders, ship product, send invoices and track payments, fulfill contractual obligations or otherwise operate our business. While we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, there is no assurance that a significant implementation issue will not arise.  

11  

We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure.  

We increasingly rely upon technology systems and infrastructure. Our technology systems are potentially vulnerable to breakdown or other interruption by fire, power loss, system malfunction, unauthorized access and other events. Likewise, data privacy breaches by employees and others with permitted access to our systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. While we have invested heavily in the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent significant breakdowns, breaches in our systems or other cyber incidents that could have a material adverse effect upon our reputation, business, operations or financial condition of the company. In addition, there can be no assurances that a significant implementation issue may not arise as we continue to consolidate and outsource certain computer operations and application support activities.  

If we fail to attract and retain key employees our business may suffer.  

Our ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, including people in senior management, sales, marketing and research positions. Competition for top talent in healthcare can be intense. Our ability to recruit and retain such talent will depend on a number of factors, including hiring practices of our competitors, compensation and benefits, work location, work environment and industry economic conditions. If we cannot effectively recruit and retain qualified employees, our business could suffer.  

We are subject to a number of pending lawsuits.  

We are a defendant in a number of pending lawsuits, including with respect to patent and product liability matters. In addition, we may be named as a defendant in future patent, product liability or other lawsuits. These current and future matters may result in reduced sales, significant liabilities and diversion of our management’s time, attention and resources. Given the uncertain nature of litigation generally, we are not able in all cases to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in these current matters. In view of these uncertainties, we cannot assure that the outcome of these matters will not result in charges in excess of any established reserves, and, to the extent available, liability insurance. We also continue to be self-insured with respect to product liability claims. The absence of third-party insurance coverage for current or future claims increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Protracted litigation, including any adverse outcomes, may have an adverse impact on the business, operations or financial condition of the company. Even claims without merit could subject us to adverse publicity and require us to incur significant legal fees. See Note 11 in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding current lawsuits.  

Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial condition.  

The company’s ability to generate cash flows from operations could be affected if there is a material decline in the demand for the company’s products, in the solvency of its customers or suppliers, or deterioration in the company’s key financial ratios or credit ratings. Current or worsening economic conditions may adversely affect our business and the ability of our customers (including governments), to pay for our products and services, and the amount spent on healthcare generally. This could result in a decrease in the demand for our products and services, declining cash flows, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. These conditions may also adversely affect certain of our suppliers, which could cause a disruption in our ability to produce our products. We continue to do business with foreign governments in certain countries, including Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy, that have experienced a deterioration in credit and economic conditions. As of December 31, 2011, the company’s net accounts receivable from the public sector in Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy totaled $524 million. The global economic conditions and governmental actions in these and other countries may continue to result in delays in the collection of receivables and require us to re-evaluate the collectibility and valuation of our receivables which could result in additional credit losses. These conditions may also impact the stability of the Euro. For more information on accounts receivable and credit matters with respect to certain of these countries, refer to the discussion under the caption entitled “Credit Facilities, Access to Capital and Credit Ratings” in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

12  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

 Item 2. Properties.