PART I 

     ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

     INTRODUCTION 

Edison International was incorporated on April 20, 1987, under the laws of the State of California for the purpose of becoming the parent holding company of Southern California Edison Company ("SCE"), a California public utility corporation, Edison Mission Energy ("EME"), a competitive power generation company, and Edison Capital, an infrastructure finance company. EME and Edison Capital are presented on a consolidated basis as Edison Mission Group Inc. ("EMG"), reflecting the integration of management and personnel at EME and Edison Capital. As a holding company, Edison International's progress and outlook are dependent on developments at its operating subsidiaries.  

At December 31, 2010, Edison International and its subsidiaries had an aggregate of 20,117 full-time employees. The principal executive offices of Edison International are located at 2244 Walnut Grove Avenue, P.O. Box 976, Rosemead, California 91770, and the telephone number is (626) 302-2222.  

Edison International makes available on its investor website, www.edisoninvestor.com, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statement and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after Edison International electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Such reports are also available on the SEC's internet website at www.sec.gov. The information contained on, or connected to, the Edison investor website is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

 Subsidiaries of Edison International 

Edison International has two business segments for financial reporting purposes: an electric utility operation segment (SCE) and a competitive power generation segment (EMG). SCE is an investor-owned public utility primarily engaged in the business of supplying electricity to an approximately 50,000-square-mile area of southern California. The SCE service territory contains a population of over 13 million people. In 2010, SCE's total operating revenue was derived as follows: 43.5% commercial customers, 39.5% residential customers, 6.0% industrial customers, 1.3% resale sales, 5.8% public authorities, and 3.9% agricultural and other customers. SCE had 18,230 full-time employees at December 31, 2010. SCE's operating revenue was approximately $10 billion in 2010.  

Sources of power to serve SCE's customers during 2010 were approximately: 42% purchased power; 24% CDWR; and 34% SCE-owned generation.  

SCE files separately an Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act. SCE also files a joint Proxy Statement with its parent, Edison International. Such reports and Proxy Statement are available at www.edisoninvestor.com or on the SEC's internet website at www.sec.gov. The information contained on, or connected to, the Edison investor website is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

EMG is the holding company for its principal wholly owned subsidiary, EME. EME is also a holding company with subsidiaries and affiliates engaged in the business of developing, acquiring, owning or leasing, operating and selling energy and capacity from independent power production facilities. Some of the facilities are operated on a merchant basis, with energy being sold into the marketplace, and others are operated under contracts calling for the delivery of energy to specific purchasers. EME also engages in hedging and energy trading activities in competitive power markets through its Edison Mission Marketing & Trading, Inc. ("EMMT") subsidiary. At December 31, 2010, EME and its subsidiaries employed 1,833 people.  

EME's subsidiaries or affiliates have typically been formed to own full or partial interests in one or more power generation facilities and ancillary facilities, with each plant or group of related plants being individually referred to by EME as a project. EME's operating projects primarily consist of coal-fired generating facilities, natural gas-fired generating facilities and renewable energy facilities, which include  

3 

Table of Contents 

wind projects and one biomass project. As of December 31, 2010, EME's subsidiaries and affiliates owned or leased interests in 39 operating projects with an aggregate net physical capacity of 10,979 MW of which EME's pro rata share was 9,852 MW. At December 31, 2010, EME's subsidiaries and affiliates also owned four wind projects under construction totaling 480 MW of net generating capacity. EME's consolidated operating revenue in 2010 was approximately $2.4 billion.  

EME files separately an Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act. Such reports are available at www.edisoninvestor.com or on the SEC's internet website at www.sec.gov. The information contained on, or connected to, the Edison investor website is not incorporated by reference into this report.  

Prior to January 1, 2010, Edison International reported three business segments: electric utility operations (SCE), competitive power generation (EME) and financial services and other (Edison Capital and other EMG subsidiaries). As a result of termination of Edison Capital's cross-border leases during 2009 and the continued reduction of its remaining portfolio, the remaining business activity is no longer significant enough to report separately. Accordingly, the financial services and other segment has been combined into the competitive power generation segment for all periods presented. The combination of these business activities is consistent with the management structure of EMG and evaluation of performance by Edison International.  

Edison International maintains a property and casualty insurance program for itself and its subsidiaries, which includes business interruption (for EMG only), and excess liability insurance covering liabilities to third parties for bodily injury or property damage resulting from operations. These policies are subject to specific retentions, sublimits and deductibles, which are comparable to those carried by other utility and electric generating companies of similar size. SCE also has separate insurance programs for nuclear property and liability, workers compensation and solar rooftop construction. EMG maintains a separate wind liability insurance program for its wind projects. For further information on wildfire insurance issues, see "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10. Regulatory and Environmental Developments."  

 Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries 

Edison International and its subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation. As a public utility holding company, Edison International is subject to the Public Utility Holding Company Act. The Public Utility Holding Company Act primarily obligates Edison International and its utility subsidiaries to provide access to their books and records to the FERC and the CPUC for ratemaking purposes.  

SCE's rates and operations are subject to extensive regulation by the CPUC, FERC, NRC, CEC, and CAISO. EMG's operating projects are also subject to energy, environmental and other governmental laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, and EMG is additionally subject to the market rules, procedures, and protocols of the markets in which it participates. Both SCE and EMG are also subject to the reliability standards for the bulk power system required by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation ("NERC").  

Edison International is not a public utility. The 1988 CPUC decision authorizing SCE to reorganize into a holding company structure, however, contains certain obligations on Edison International and its affiliates. These include providing the CPUC access to certain records, establishing accounting procedures to protect against subsidization of nonutility activities by SCE's customers, and following transfer pricing rules. In addition, the decision provides that SCE's dividend policy shall continue to be established by SCE's Board of Directors as though SCE were a stand-alone utility company, and that the capital requirements of SCE, as deemed to be necessary to meet SCE's service obligations, shall receive first priority from the Boards of Directors of Edison International and SCE. The CPUC has also promulgated Affiliate Transaction Rules, which, among other requirements, prohibit holding companies from (1) being used as a conduit to provide non-public information to a utility's affiliate and (2) causing or abetting a utility's violation of the rules, including providing preferential treatment to affiliates.  

4 

Table of Contents 

 SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY 

     Regulation 

     CPUC 

SCE's retail operations are subject to regulation by the CPUC. The CPUC has the authority to regulate, among other things, retail rates, energy purchases on behalf of retail customers, rate of return, rates of depreciation, issuance of securities, disposition of utility assets and facilities, oversight of nuclear decommissioning funding and costs, and aspects of the transmission system, planning, site identification and construction. The governing body of the CPUC consists of five Commissioners who are appointed by the Governor of California, confirmed by the California Senate and serve for six-year staggered terms.  

 FERC 

SCE's wholesale operations (including sales of electricity into the wholesale markets) are subject to regulation by the FERC. The FERC has the authority to regulate wholesale rates as well as other matters, including unbundled transmission service pricing, accounting practices, and licensing of hydroelectric projects.  

 NERC 

The NERC establishes and enforces reliability standards and critical infrastructure protection standards for the bulk power system. The critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cyber security assets. Compliance with these standards is mandatory. The maximum penalty that may be levied for violating a NERC reliability or critical infrastructure protection standard is $1 million per violation, per day.  

 Transmission and Substation Facilities Regulation 

The construction, planning and project site identification of SCE's transmission lines and substation facilities require the approval of many governmental agencies and compliance with various laws. These agencies include utility regulatory commissions such as the CPUC and other state regulatory agencies depending on the project location; the CAISO, and other environmental, land management and resource agencies such as the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Forest Service, and the California Department of Fish and Game; and regional water quality control boards. In addition, to the extent that SCE transmission line projects pass through lands owned or controlled by Native American tribes, consent and approval from the affected tribes and the Bureau of Indian Affairs are also necessary for the project to proceed.  

 CEC 

The construction, planning, and project site identification of SCE's power plants of 50 MW or greater within California are subject to the jurisdiction of the CEC. The CEC is also responsible for forecasting future energy needs. These forecasts are used by the CPUC in determining the adequacy of SCE's electricity procurement plans.  

 Nuclear Power Plant Regulation 

SCE is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to its San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations. NRC requirements govern the granting, amendment, and extension of licenses for the construction and operation of nuclear power plants and subject those power plants to continuing oversight, inspection, and performance assessment.  

The NRC has continued to affirm that San Onofre is being operated safely. However, SCE has had to address a number of regulatory and performance issues for which corrective action is required to mitigate exposure to events that could have safety significance. In its September 1, 2010 mid-cycle performance review letter the NRC noted that although San Onofre had developed corrective actions to resolve previously noted human performance and problem identification and resolution issues, the corrective actions that had been implemented had not been fully effective. The NRC is conducting inspections over its  

5 

Table of Contents 

baseline program, including inspections to evaluate progress on these issues, and to assess actions taken to improve the working environment for employees to feel free to raise safety concerns. The NRC is also conducting additional public meetings to discuss these issues. To address these regulatory and performance issues, SCE has applied increased management focus and other resources to San Onofre, with an associated impact on operations and maintenance costs. SCE anticipates that its corrective actions, and related additional management focus and operations and maintenance costs, will continue. If issues identified by the NRC remain uncorrected, these issues could have a material adverse effect on SCE.  

 Overview of Ratemaking Mechanisms 

SCE sells electricity to retail customers at rates authorized by the CPUC. SCE sells transmission service and wholesale power at rates authorized by the FERC.  

 Base Rates 

Base rates authorized by the CPUC and the FERC are intended to provide SCE a reasonable opportunity to recover its costs and earn a return on its net investment in generation, transmission and distribution facilities (or "rate base"). These base rates provide for recovery of operations and maintenance costs, capital-related carrying costs (depreciation, taxes and interest) and a return or profit, on a forecast basis.  

 CPUC Base Rates 

Base rates for SCE's generation and distribution functions provide a rate of return and are authorized by the CPUC through triennial GRC proceedings. The CPUC sets an annual revenue requirement for the base year which is made up of the carrying cost on capital investment (depreciation, return and taxes), plus the authorized level of operations and maintenance expense. The return is established by multiplying an authorized rate of return, determined in separate cost of capital proceedings (as discussed below), by SCE's investment in the generation and distribution rate base. In the GRC proceedings, the CPUC also generally approves the level of capital spending on a forecast basis. Adjustments to the revenue requirement for the remaining two years of a typical three-year GRC cycle are requested, based on criteria established in the GRC proceeding, which generally, among other items, include annual allowances for escalation in operation and maintenance costs, forecasted changes in capital-related investments and the timing and number of expected nuclear refueling outages. SCE's GRC decision for the 2009-2011 period was issued in March 2009 and was effective as of January 1, 2009. In the 2009 GRC, the CPUC determined the 2010 and 2011 authorized revenues by escalating the entire revenue requirement. 2009's authorized revenue requirement of $4.83 billion was escalated by 4.25% to create the 2010 authorized amount, which was in turn escalated by 4.35% to create the 2011 authorized amount. SCE filed its 2012 GRC application with the CPUC on November 23, 2010, to be effective on January 1, 2012. The CPUC has authorized a revenue decoupling mechanism, which allows the difference between the revenue authorized and the actual volume of electricity sales to be collected from or refunded to ratepayers. Accordingly, SCE is neither benefited nor burdened by the volumetric risk related to retail electricity sales.  

The CPUC regulates SCE's capital structure and authorized rate of return. SCE's current authorized capital structure is 48% common equity, 43% long-term debt and 9% preferred equity. SCE's current authorized cost of capital consists of: cost of long-term debt of 6.22%, authorized cost of preferred equity of 6.01% and authorized return on common equity of 11.5%. In 2008, the CPUC approved a multi-year cost of capital mechanism, which allows for annual adjustments if certain thresholds are reached. In 2009, the CPUC granted SCE's request to extend SCE's existing capital structure and authorized rate of return of 11.5% through December 2012, absent any future potential annual adjustments. The revised mechanism will be subject to CPUC review in 2012 for the cost of capital established for 2013 and beyond. SCE's earnings may be impacted when actual financing costs are above or below its authorized costs for long-term debt and preferred equity financings.  

 FERC Base Rates 

Base rates for SCE's transmission functions provide a rate of return and are authorized by the FERC in periodic proceedings that are similar to the CPUC GRC and cost of capital proceedings. Requested rate changes at the FERC are generally implemented before final approval of the application, with revenue collected prior to a final FERC decision being subject to refund. FERC-approved base rate revenues that vary from forecast are not recoverable or refundable and will therefore impact earnings.  

6 

Table of Contents 

 Cost-Recovery Rates 

Cost-recovery mechanisms allow SCE to recover its costs, but do not allow a return. These mechanisms are used to recover SCE's costs of fuel, purchased-power, demand-side management programs, nuclear decommissioning, public purpose programs, certain operation and maintenance expenses, and depreciation expense related to certain projects. Although the CPUC authorizes balancing account mechanisms for such costs to refund or recover any differences between forecasted and actual costs, under- or over-collections in these balancing accounts do impact cash flows and can build rapidly.  

The CPUC also authorizes the use of a balancing account to eliminate the effect on earnings from differences in revenue resulting from actual and forecasted electricity sales. Under this mechanism, the difference in revenue between actual and forecast electricity sales is recovered from or refunded to ratepayers and therefore does not impact SCE's earnings.  

SCE's balancing account for fuel and power procurement-related costs is established under the Energy Resource Recovery Account ("ERRA") Mechanism. SCE files annual forecasts of the costs that it expects to incur during the following year and sets rates using forecasts. The CPUC has established a "trigger" mechanism for the ERRA balancing account that allows for a rate adjustment if the balancing account over-collection or under-collection exceeds 5% of SCE's prior year's generation revenue. For 2011, the trigger amount is approximately $252 million.  

The majority of costs eligible for recovery through cost-recovery rates are subject to CPUC reasonableness reviews, and thus could negatively impact earnings and cash flows if found to be unreasonable and disallowed.  

 Energy Efficiency Shareholder Risk/Reward Incentive Mechanism 

The CPUC has adopted an Energy Efficiency Risk/Reward Mechanism ("Energy Efficiency Mechanism") which allows SCE to earn incentives based on SCE's performance toward meeting CPUC energy efficiency goals. In December 2010, the CPUC modified and extended the existing Energy Efficiency Mechanism to apply to the 2009 energy efficiency program. Under the modified mechanism, SCE has the opportunity to earn an incentive of 7% of the value of the total energy efficiency savings created, if SCE achieves 85% or more of the CPUC's energy efficiency goals for the 2009 energy efficiency program year.  

In November 2010, the CPUC issued a draft decision in a new rulemaking intended to review the framework of the Energy Efficiency Mechanism and to establish a mechanism applicable to performance during the 2010 – 2012 energy efficiency program cycle. SCE cannot predict when a final decision will be issued, the content of such final decision or the amount of earnings, if any, that SCE may receive as a result of the adoption of a new mechanism.  

 CDWR-Related Rates 

As a result of the California energy crisis, in 2001 the California Department of Water Resources ("CDWR") entered into contracts to purchase power for sale at cost directly to SCE's retail customers and issued bonds to finance those power purchases. The CDWR's total statewide power charge and bond charge revenue requirements are allocated by the CPUC among the customers of the investor-owned utilities (SCE, PG&E and SDG&E). SCE bills and collects from its customers the costs of power purchased and sold by the CDWR, CDWR bond-related charges and direct access exit fees. The CDWR-related charges and a portion of direct access exit fees that are remitted directly to the CDWR are not recognized as electric utility revenue; but do affect customer rates. The remaining CDWR power contracts that were allocated to SCE terminate by the end of 2011. The bond-related charges and direct access exit fees continue until 2022.  

 Competition 

Because SCE is an electric utility company operating within a defined service territory pursuant to authority from the CPUC, SCE faces retail competition only to the extent that federal and California laws permit other entities to provide electricity and related services to customers within SCE's service territory. While California law provides only limited opportunities for customers to choose to purchase power directly from an energy service provider other than SCE, a California statute was adopted in 2009 that permits a limited,  

7 

Table of Contents 

phased-in expansion of customer choice (direct access) for nonresidential customers. SCE also faces some competition from cities and municipal districts that create municipal utilities or community choice aggregators. In addition, customers may install their own on-site power generation facilities.  

Competition with SCE is conducted mainly on the basis of price, as customers seek the lowest cost power available. The effect of competition on SCE generally is to reduce the number of customers purchasing power from SCE, but those customers typically continue to utilize and pay for SCE's transmission and distribution services.  

In the area of transmission infrastructure, SCE may experience increased competition from merchant transmission providers.  

 Purchased Power and Fuel Supply 

SCE obtains the power needed to serve its customers from its generating facilities and from sales by qualifying facilities, independent power producers, renewable power producers, the CAISO, and other utilities. In addition, power is provided to SCE's customers through purchases by the CDWR under contracts with third parties.  

 Natural Gas Supply 

SCE requires natural gas to meet contractual obligations for power tolling agreements (power contracts in which SCE has agreed to provide or pay for the natural gas needed for generation under those power contracts) and to serve demand for gas at SCE's Mountainview and peaker plants, which are supplemental plants that only operate when demand for power is high. The physical gas purchased by SCE is subject to competitive bidding.  

 Nuclear Fuel Supply 

For San Onofre Units 2 and 3, contractual arrangements are in place covering 100% of the projected nuclear fuel requirements through the years indicated below:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

For Palo Verde, contractual arrangements are in place covering 100% of the projected nuclear fuel requirements through the years indicated below:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 Coal Supply 

On January 1, 2010, SCE and the other Four Corners participants entered into a Four Corners Coal Supply Agreement with the BHP Navajo Coal Company, under which coal will be supplied to Four Corners Units 4 and 5 until July 6, 2016. In November 2010, SCE entered into an agreement to sell its interest in Four Corners subject to certain conditions and regulatory approvals.  

 CAISO Wholesale Energy Market 

In California and other states, wholesale energy markets exist through which competing electricity generators offer their electricity output to electricity retailers. Each state's wholesale electricity market is generally operated by its state ISO or a regional RTO. California's wholesale electricity market is operated by the CAISO. The CAISO schedules power in hourly increments with hourly prices through a real-time  

8 

Table of Contents 

and day-ahead market that combines energy, ancillary services, unit commitment and congestion management. SCE participates in the day-ahead and real-time markets for the sale of its generation and purchases of its load requirements.  

The CAISO uses a nodal locational pricing model, which sets wholesale electricity prices at system points ("nodes") that reflect local generation and delivery costs. Generally, SCE schedules its electricity generation to serve its load but when it has excess generation or the market price of power is more economic than its own generation, SCE may sell power from utility-owned generation assets and existing power procurement contracts on, or buy generation and/or ancillary services to meet its load requirements from, the day-ahead market. SCE will offer to buy its generation at nodes near the source of the generation, but will take delivery at nodes throughout SCE's service territory. Congestion may occur when available energy cannot be delivered to all loads due to transmission constraints, which results in transmission congestion charges and differences in prices at various nodes. The CAISO also offers congestion revenue rights or CRRs, a commodity that entitles the holder to receive (or pay) the value of transmission congestion between specific nodes, acting as an economic hedge against transmission congestion charges.  

 Properties 

SCE supplies electricity to its customers through extensive transmission and distribution networks. Its transmission facilities, which are located primarily in California but also in Nevada and Arizona, deliver power from generating sources to the distribution network and consist of lines ranging from 33 kV to 500 kV and substations. SCE's distribution system, which takes power from substations to customers, includes over 60,000 circuit miles of overhead lines, 43,500 circuit miles of underground lines and over 700 distribution substations, all of which are located in California.  

SCE owns the generating facilities (and operates all of these facilities except Palo Verde and Four Corners, which are operated by Arizona Public Service Company ("APS")) listed in the following table.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

1In November 2010, SCE entered into an agreement to sell its interest in Four Corners to APS for approximately $294 million. The sale is contingent upon the satisfaction of several conditions and the obtaining of multiple regulatory approvals. Currently SCE estimates that the sale will close in the second half of 2012. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment" for more information.   

San Onofre, Four Corners, certain of SCE's substations, and portions of its transmission, distribution and communication systems are located on lands owned by the United States or others under licenses, permits, easements or leases, or on public streets or highways pursuant to franchises. Certain of the documents evidencing such rights obligate SCE, under specified circumstances and at its expense, to relocate such transmission, distribution, and communication facilities located on lands owned or controlled by federal, state, or local governments.  

9 

Table of Contents 

Twenty-eight of SCE's 36 hydroelectric plants and related reservoirs, are located in whole or in part on U.S.-owned lands pursuant to 30- to 50-year FERC licenses that expire at various times between 2011 and 2040. Such licenses impose numerous restrictions and obligations on SCE, including the right of the United States to acquire projects upon payment of specified compensation. When existing licenses expire, the FERC has the authority to issue new licenses to third parties that have filed competing license applications, but only if their license application is superior to SCE's and then only upon payment of specified compensation to SCE. New licenses issued to SCE are expected to contain more restrictions and obligations than the expired licenses because laws enacted since the existing licenses were issued require the FERC to give environmental objectives greater consideration in the licensing process.  

Substantially all of SCE's properties are subject to the lien of a trust indenture securing first and refunding mortgage bonds. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 5. Debt and Credit Agreements."  

SCE's rights in Four Corners, which is located on land of the Navajo Nation under an easement from the United States and a lease from the Navajo Nation, may be subject to defects. These defects include possible conflicting grants or encumbrances not ascertainable because of the absence of, or inadequacies in, the applicable recording law and record systems of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Navajo Nation, the possible inability of SCE to resort to legal process to enforce its rights against the Navajo Nation without Congressional consent, the possible impairment or termination under certain circumstances of the easement and lease by the Navajo Nation, Congress, or the Secretary of the Interior, and the possible invalidity of the trust indenture lien against SCE's interest in the easement, lease, and improvements on Four Corners. For more information on SCE's sale of its interest in Four Corners, see "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment."  

 Seasonality 

Due to warm weather during the summer months and SCE's rate design, operating revenue during the third quarter of each year is generally higher than the other quarters.  

10 

 Table of Contents  

 EDISON MISSION GROUP INC. 

     Regulation 

     Federal Power Act 

The FERC has exclusive jurisdiction over the rates, terms and conditions of wholesale sales of electricity and transmission services in interstate commerce (other than transmission that is "bundled" with retail sales). Rates may be based on a cost-of-service approach or, in geographic and product markets determined by the FERC to be workably competitive, may be market based. Previously approved rates may also be revoked or modified by the FERC after notice and opportunity for hearing.  

The FERC also has jurisdiction over the sale or transfer of specified assets, including wholesale power sales contracts and generation facilities and, in some cases, jurisdiction over the issuance of securities or the assumption of specified liabilities. Dispositions of EMG's jurisdictional assets and certain types of financing arrangements may require FERC approval.  

Each of EMG's domestic generating facilities is either a qualifying facility, as determined by the FERC, or the subsidiary owning the facility is an EWG. Most qualifying facilities, including EMG's qualifying facilities, are exempt from the ratemaking and several other provisions of the Federal Power Act. EMG's EWGs are subject to the FERC's ratemaking jurisdiction under the Federal Power Act, but have been authorized by the FERC to sell power at market-based rates. In addition, EMG's power marketing subsidiaries, including EMMT, have been authorized by the FERC to make wholesale market sales of power at market-based rates and are subject to the FERC ratemaking regulation under the Federal Power Act.  

If one of the projects in which EMG has an interest were to lose its qualifying facility or EWG status, the project would no longer be entitled to the related exemptions from regulation and could become subject to rate regulation by the FERC and state authorities. Loss of status could also trigger defaults under covenants contained in the project's power sales agreements and financing agreements.  

 Transmission of Wholesale Power 

Generally, projects that sell power to wholesale purchasers other than the local utility to which the project may be interconnected require the transmission of electricity over power lines owned by others. The prices and other terms and conditions of transmission contracts are regulated by the FERC when the entity providing the transmission service is subject to FERC jurisdiction.  

 Markets for Generation 

The United States electric industry, including companies engaged in providing generation, transmission, distribution and retail sales and service of electric power, has undergone significant deregulation over the last three decades, which has led to increased competition, especially in the generation sector. In areas where ISOs and RTOs have been formed, market participants have open access to transmission service typically at a system-wide rate. ISOs and RTOs may also operate real-time and day-ahead energy and ancillary service markets, which are governed by FERC-approved tariffs and market rules. The development of such organized markets into which independent power producers are able to sell has reduced their dependence on bilateral contracts with electric utilities. In addition, capacity markets in various regional wholesale power markets compensate supply resources for the capability to supply electricity when needed, and demand resources, for electricity they avoid using.  

 Wholesale Markets 

EMG's largest power plants are its coal power plants located in Illinois, which are collectively referred to as the Midwest Generation plants in this annual report, and the Homer City plant located in Pennsylvania. Collectively, both the Midwest Generation plants and the Homer City plant are referred to as the coal plants in this annual report. The coal plants sell power primarily into PJM, an RTO which includes all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. Sales may also be made from PJM into the MISO RTO, which includes all or parts of Illinois, Wisconsin, Indiana, Michigan, Ohio  

11 

Table of Contents 

and other states in the region, and into the NYISO, which controls the transmission grid and energy and capacity markets for New York State.  

PJM operates a wholesale spot energy market and determines the market-clearing price for each hour based on bids submitted by participating generators indicating the minimum prices at which a bidder is willing to dispatch energy at various incremental generation levels. PJM requires all load-serving entities and generators, such as Midwest Generation and Homer City, to maintain prescribed levels of capacity, including a reserve margin, to ensure system reliability. PJM's capacity markets have a single market-clearing price for each capacity zone. In May of every year, PJM conducts an annual capacity auction ("RPM") to commit generation, energy efficiency and demand side resources three years forward, and to provide a long-term pricing signal for capacity resources.  

 Fuel Supply 

The Midwest Generation plants purchase coal from several suppliers that operate mines in the Southern PRB of Wyoming. The total volume of coal consumed annually is largely dependent on the amount of generation and ranges between 17.5 million to 19.5 million tons. Coal is transported under long-term transportation agreements with Union Pacific Railroad and various short-haul carriers. Midwest Generation's long-term rail transportation contract with Union Pacific Railroad expires at the end of 2011. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to EMG—Market Risks." As of December 31, 2010, Midwest Generation leased approximately 3,900 railcars to transport the coal from the mines to the generating stations and the leases have remaining terms that range from less than one year to nine years, with options to extend the leases or purchase some railcars at the end of the lease terms.  

Homer City's Units 1 and 2 collectively consumes approximately 3.3 million to 3.5 million tons of mid-range sulfur coal per year. Two types of coal are purchased, ready-to-burn and raw coal. Ready-to-burn coal is of the quality that can be burned directly in Units 1 and 2, whereas the raw coal purchased for consumption by Units 1 and 2 must be cleaned in the Homer City coal cleaning facility, which has the capacity to clean up to 5 million tons of coal per year. Unit 3 consumes approximately 2 million tons of coal per year and can consume either raw or ready-to-burn coal. A wet scrubber FGD system for Unit 3 enables this unit to burn less expensive, higher sulfur coal, while still meeting environmental standards for emission control. In general, the coal purchased for all three units is acquired locally and originates from mines that are within approximately 100 miles of the Homer City plant. Homer City purchases the majority of its coal under term contracts with the balance purchased in the spot market as needed.  

 Competition 

EMG is subject to competition from energy marketers, public utilities, government-owned power agencies, industrial companies, financial institutions, and other independent power producers. These companies may have competitive advantages as a result of scale, the location of their generation facilities, or other factors. Some of EMG's competitors have a lower cost of capital than most independent power producers and, in the case of utilities, are often able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments.  

State and local environmental regulations, particularly those that impose stringent state-specific emission limits in Illinois, could put EMG's coal plants at a disadvantage compared with competing power plants operating in nearby states and subject to less stringent state emission limits or to federal emission limits alone, and the CPS could put the Midwest Generation plants at a disadvantage compared with competing plants not subject to similar regulations. Potential future climate change regulations could also put EMG's coal plants at a disadvantage compared to both power plants utilizing other fuels and utilities that may be able to recover climate change compliance costs through rate base mechanisms. In addition, the ability of these plants to compete may be affected by governmental and regulatory activities designed to support the construction and operation of power generation facilities fueled by renewable energy sources.  

 Asset Management and Trading Activities 

EMG's power marketing and trading subsidiary, EMMT, manages the energy and capacity of EMG's merchant generating plants and, in addition, trades electric power, gas, oil and related commodity and  

12 

Table of Contents 

financial products, including forwards, futures, options and swaps. EMMT segregates its activities into two categories:   

•Asset Management—EMMT engages in the sale of energy and capacity and the purchase of fuels, including coal, natural gas and fuel oil, through intercompany contracts with EMG's subsidiaries that own or lease EMG's facilities. EMG uses derivative instruments to reduce its exposure to market risks that arise from price fluctuations of electricity, capacity, fuel, emission allowances, and transmission rights. The objective of these activities is to sell the output of EMG's facilities on a forward basis or to hedge the risk of future changes in prices. Hedging activities include on-peak and off-peak periods and may include load service requirements contracts with local utilities. Transactions related to hedging activities are designated separately from EMMT's trading activities. Not all contracts entered into by EMMT for hedging purposes qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.   

•Trading—As an extension of its asset management activities, EMMT seeks to generate trading profits from volatility in the price of electricity, capacity, fuels, and transmission congestion by buying and selling contracts in wholesale markets under limitations approved by EMG's risk management committee.  

13 

Table of Contents 

 Properties 

     Power Plants in Operation 

As of December 31, 2010, EMG's operations consisted of ownership or leasehold interests in the following operating projects:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

1Plant is operated under contract by an EME operations and maintenance subsidiary or the plant is operated or managed directly by an EME subsidiary.   

14 

Table of Contents 

2Electric purchaser abbreviations are as follows:   

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

3Represents EME's current ownership interest. If the project achieves a specified rate of return, EME's interest will decrease. 

4Comprised of seven individual wind projects.   

 Renewable Development Activities 

At December 31, 2010, EMG had a development pipeline of potential wind projects with projected installed capacity of approximately 3,600 MW and had four projects totaling 480 MW under construction. Projects under construction at December 31, 2010 were as follows:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

1Plan to sell renewable energy credits into the PJM market as merchant generator or to third-party customers under power sales contracts. Sold 48 MW of capacity into a forward-year RPM auction. 

2Twenty-year power purchase agreement.   

Laredo Ridge and Big Sky achieved commercial operation on February 1, 2011 and February 18, 2011, respectively. EMG anticipates that the remaining projects under construction will also achieve commercial operation in 2011. In addition to the projects under construction at December 31, 2010, EMG expects the 55 MW Pinnacle project in West Virginia will commence construction in 2011 with anticipated commercial operation in 2011. For more information, see "Edison International Overview—EMG Renewable Program" in the MD&A.  

 Significant Customers 

For information on EMG's significant customers, see "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 6. Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."  

 Energy and Infrastructure Investments 

EMG's energy and infrastructure investments are held by Edison Capital in the form of leveraged leases, partnership interests in international infrastructure funds and affordable housing projects in the United States.  

15 

Table of Contents 

As of December 31, 2010, Edison Capital is the lessor with an investment balance (including current lease receivable) of $166 million in the following leveraged leases:  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]   

 Seasonality 

Due to fluctuations in electric demand resulting from warm weather during the summer months and cold weather during the winter months, electric revenues from the coal plants normally vary substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, maintenance outages generally are scheduled during periods of lower projected electric demand (spring and fall), further reducing generation and increasing major maintenance costs which are recorded as an expense when incurred. Accordingly, income from the coal plants is seasonal and has significant variability from quarter to quarter. Seasonal fluctuations may also be affected by changes in market prices. For further discussion regarding market prices, see "EMG: Market Risk Exposures—Commodity Price Risk—Energy Price Risk Affecting Sales from the Coal Plants" in the MD&A.  

EME's third quarter equity in income from its unconsolidated energy projects is normally higher than equity in income related to other quarters of the year due to seasonal fluctuations and higher energy contract prices during the summer months.  

 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION OF EDISON INTERNATIONAL AND SUBSIDIARIES 

Because Edison International does not own or operate any assets, other than the stock of its subsidiaries, it does not have any direct environmental obligations or liabilities. However, legislative and regulatory activities by federal, state, and local authorities in the United States relating to energy and the environment impose numerous restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and affect the timing, cost, location, design, construction and operation of new facilities by Edison International's subsidiaries, as well as the cost of mitigating the environmental impacts of past operations. Many of these laws, regulations and other activities affect both SCE and EMG's subsidiaries, although not always to the same extent. The environmental regulations and other developments discussed below have the largest impact on fossil-fuel fired power plants, and therefore the discussion in this section focuses on regulations applicable to the states of California, New Mexico, Illinois and Pennsylvania, where such facilities are located.  

Edison International continues to monitor legislative and regulatory developments and to evaluate possible strategies for compliance with environmental regulations. Additional information about environmental matters affecting Edison International, including projected environmental capital expenditures, is included in the MD&A under the heading "SCE: Liquidity—Capital Investment Plan" and in "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies" and "Note 10.—Regulatory and Environmental Developments."  

 Greenhouse Gas Regulation 

There have been a number of federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives to reduce GHG emissions. Any climate change regulation or other legal obligation that would require substantial reductions in emissions of GHGs or that would impose additional costs or charges for the emission of GHGs could significantly increase the cost of generating electricity from fossil fuels, and especially from coal-fired plants, as well as the cost of purchased power, which could adversely affect Edison International.  

16 

Table of Contents 

 Federal Legislative/Regulatory Developments 

Efforts to pass comprehensive federal climate change legislation have not yet been successful. The timing, content and potential effects on Edison International of any legislation that may be enacted remain uncertain. However, the US EPA has begun to issue federal GHG regulations that are likely to impact the operations of Edison International's subsidiaries.  

In June 2010, the US EPA issued the Prevention of Significant Deterioration ("PSD") and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, known as the "GHG tailoring rule." This regulation generally subjects newly constructed sources of GHG emissions and newly modified existing major sources to the PSD air permitting program beginning in January 2011 (and later, to the Title V permitting program under the CAA); however the GHG tailoring rule significantly increases the emissions thresholds that apply before facilities are subjected to these programs. The emissions thresholds for CO2 equivalents in the final rule vary from 75,000 tons per year to 100,000 tons per year depending on the date and whether the sources are new or modified.  

A challenge to the GHG tailoring rule (along with other GHG regulations and determinations issued by the US EPA) is pending before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. Regulation of GHG emissions pursuant to the PSD program could affect efforts to modify EMG's or SCE's facilities in the future, and could subject new capital projects to additional permitting and pollution control requirements that could delay such projects. If EMG or SCE is required to install controls in the future or otherwise modify its operations in order to reduce GHG emissions, the potential impact of the GHG tailoring rule will depend on the nature and timing of the controls or modifications, which remain uncertain.  

In December 2010, the US EPA announced that it had entered into a settlement with various states and environmental groups to resolve a long-standing dispute over regulation of GHGs from electrical generating units pursuant to the New Source Performance Standards in the CAA. Under the pending settlement, the US EPA will propose performance standards for GHG emissions from new and modified power plants and emissions guidelines for existing power plants in July 2011, and will finalize such regulations by May 2012, with compliance dates for existing power plants expected to be in 2015 or 2016. The specific requirements will not be known until the regulations are finalized.  

Since January 2010, the US EPA's Final Mandatory GHG Reporting Rule has required all sources within specified categories, including electric generation facilities, to monitor emissions and to submit annual reports to the US EPA by March 31 of each year, with the first report due on March 31, 2011. EMG's 2010 GHG emissions were approximately 50.2 million metric tons. SCE's 2010 GHG emissions were approximately 6.5 million metric tons.  

 Regional Initiatives and State Legislation 

Regional initiatives and state legislation may also require reductions of GHG emissions and it is not yet clear whether or to what extent any federal legislation would preempt them. If state and/or regional initiatives remain in effect after federal legislation is enacted, generators and utilities could be required to satisfy them in addition to the federal standards.  

Edison International subsidiary operations in California are subject to two laws governing GHG emissions. The first law, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (also referred to as AB 32), establishes a comprehensive program to reduce GHG emissions. AB 32 requires the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") to develop regulations, effective in 2012, that would reduce California's GHG emissions to 1990 levels in yearly increments by 2020. In December 2010, the CARB finalized regulations establishing a California cap-and-trade program, which include revisions to the CARB's mandatory GHG emissions reporting regulation. The regulations and the cap-and-trade program itself are being challenged by various citizens' groups under the California Environmental Quality Act.  

The second law, SB 1368, required the CPUC and the CEC to adopt GHG emission performance standards restricting the ability of California investor-owned and publicly owned utilities, respectively, to enter into long-term arrangements for the purchase of electricity. The standards that have been adopted prohibit these entities, including SCE, from entering into long-term financial commitments with generators that emit more than 1,100 pounds of CO2 per MWh, the performance of a combined-cycle gas turbine generator. Accordingly, the prohibition applies to most coal-fired plants. Utility purchases of power  

17 

Table of Contents 

generated by EMG's California facilities are subject to the emissions performance standards established in SB 1368. EMG believes that all of its California facilities meet SB 1368 standards, but EMG will continue to monitor the regulations, as they are developed, for potential impact on its existing facilities and its projects under development.  

SB 1368 also affects the ability of utilities to make long-term capital investments in generators that do not meet the emission performance standards. SB 1368 may prohibit SCE from making emission control expenditures at Four Corners. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment" for information on the sale of SCE's interest in Four Corners.  

California law also requires SCE to increase its electricity generated from renewable resources by at least 1% of its annual retail electricity sales per year so that 20% of its annual electricity sales are provided from such resources (the "RPS Program") by no later than December 31, 2010 or such later date as flexible compliance requirements permit. Through December 31, 2010, SCE estimates its delivery of eligible renewable resources to customers to be 19% of its total energy portfolio. In accordance with the procurement rules and regulations, SCE expects to demonstrate full compliance with the RPS Program in its March 2011 filing. In addition, in September 2010, the CARB adopted a Renewable Electricity Standard, which requires SCE to demonstrate renewable energy production equal to 33% of its sales to retail customers for 2020 and each year thereafter. Subsequently, in February 2011, a California Senate bill was introduced that would impose a similar requirement that California utilities purchase 33% of their electricity requirements from renewable resources. It is unclear whether the legislation will preempt the CARB's standard, if it is enacted.  

Edison International subsidiary operations in California and New Mexico may also be affected by the Western Climate Initiative ("WCI"), an agreement entered into by California, other western states and certain Canadian provinces, to develop strategies to reduce GHG emissions in the region to 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. In July 2010, the WCI partners released a comprehensive strategy for a regional cap-and-trade program, with a planned start date of January 2012, to help achieve their reduction goal. Recent political developments make it uncertain whether this regional program will proceed and what form it might take. As noted above, California is implementing its own program to reduce GHG emissions.  

EMG's operations in Illinois may be affected by the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord, an initiative by which six Midwestern states, including Illinois, and the Canadian province of Manitoba agreed to develop regional GHG emission reduction goals using a multi-sector cap-and-trade program. In May 2010, the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord Advisory Group finalized recommendations and a model rule for emissions reduction targets and the design of a regional cap-and-trade program to serve as a basis for individual state legislative or regulatory action. However, there is substantial uncertainty as to whether the parties to the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord intend to continue their efforts to develop or implement such a program, especially in light of the failure to pass a federal cap-and-trade program in the 111th Congress.  

 Litigation Developments 

Litigation alleging that GHG is a public and private nuisance may affect Edison International and its subsidiaries, whether or not they are named as defendants. The law is unsettled on whether this litigation presents questions capable of judicial resolution or political questions that should be resolved by the legislative or executive branches.  

In December 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to review a case in which an appellate panel had endorsed the availability of judicial remedies for nuisance allegedly caused by GHG emissions associated with climate change. Oral argument before the Supreme Court is scheduled for April 2011. Currently pending, while the Supreme Court considers the matter before it, is an appeal before the Ninth Circuit of a federal district order dismissing a case against Edison International and other defendants brought by the Alaskan Native Village of Kivalina in which the plaintiffs seek damages of up to $400 million for the cost of relocating the village, which plaintiffs claim is no longer protected from storms because the Arctic sea ice has melted as the result of climate change. Edison International and the other defendants in the lawsuit recently requested the Ninth Circuit to defer oral argument on the appeal pending the Supreme Court's decision on related issues.  

18 

 Table of Contents  

Edison International cannot predict whether the legal principles emerging from the Supreme Court or any of the cases in the appellate courts will result in the filing of new actions with similar claims or whether Congress, in considering climate legislation, will address directly the availability of courts to resolve claims associated with climate change.  

 Air Quality 

The CAA, which regulates air pollutants from mobile and stationary sources, has a significant impact on the operation of fossil fuel plants, especially coal-fired plants. The CAA requires the US EPA to establish concentration levels in the ambient air for six criteria pollutants to protect public health and welfare. These concentration levels are known as National Ambient Air Quality Standards, or NAAQS. The six criteria pollutants are carbon monoxide, lead, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, particulate matter, and SO2.  

Federal environmental regulations of these criteria pollutants require states to adopt state implementation plans, known as SIPs, for certain pollutants, which detail how the state will attain the standards that are mandated by the relevant law or regulation. The SIPs must be equal to or more stringent than the federal requirements and must be submitted to the US EPA for approval. Each state identifies the areas within its boundaries that meet the NAAQS (attainment areas) and those that do not (non-attainment areas), and must develop a SIP both to bring non-attainment areas into compliance with the NAAQS and to maintain good air quality in attainment areas. If the attainment status of areas changes, states may be required to develop new SIPs that address the changes. Many of EMG's facilities are located in areas that have not attained NAAQS for ozone (affected by NOx emissions from power plants) and fine particulate matter (affected by SO2 and NOx emissions from power plants) and much of Southern California is in a non-attainment area for several criteria pollutants.  

As described further below, on December 11, 2006, Midwest Generation entered into an agreement with the Illinois EPA, which was subsequently embodied in an Illinois rule called the Combined Pollutant Standard or "CPS," to reduce mercury, NOx and SO2 emissions at the Midwest Generation plants. The CPS requires Midwest Generation to achieve air emission reductions for NOx and SO2, and those reductions should contribute to or effect compliance with various existing US EPA ambient air quality standards. It is possible that if lower ozone, particulate matter, NOx or SO2 NAAQS are finalized by US EPA in the future, Illinois may implement regulations that are more stringent than those required by the CPS.  

 Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Dioxide 

     Clean Air Interstate and Transport Rules 

The CAIR, issued by the US EPA on March 10, 2005, mandated significant reductions in NOx and SO2 emission allowance caps under the CAA in 28 eastern states and the District of Columbia. In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit initially vacated the CAIR, but later remanded the CAIR to the US EPA for the issuance of a revised rule. The CAIR will remain in effect until the US EPA finalizes a revised regulation.  

In July 2010, the US EPA issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for a proposed rule, known as the Transport Rule, which would require 31 eastern states (including Pennsylvania and Illinois) and the District of Columbia to reduce power plant emissions of NOx and SO2 substantially, starting in 2012, with additional reductions in 2014. The Transport Rule would replace the CAIR.  

The US EPA has proposed allocating emission allowances based on the historic and projected emissions data from power plants, along with three possible approaches to emissions allowance trading. Under its preferred approach, a pollution limit would be set for each state, intrastate trading of allowances would be permitted among power plants, and limited interstate trading would also be permitted consistent with the requirement that each state meet its own pollution control obligations. Under the first alternative, a pollution limit would be set for each state, and only intrastate trading of allowances would be permitted. Under the second alternative, a pollution limit would be set for each state, an emissions limit would be set for each power plant, and limited emissions averaging would be permitted among affected units. In January 2011, the US EPA proposed two other possible approaches to emission allowance allocation. Both approaches would allocate allowances among units within each state based on each unit's proportional  

19 

Table of Contents 

share of the state's total historic heat input, and the second approach would add a constraint based on a unit's reasonably foreseeable maximum emissions under the proposed Transport Rule trading programs.  

The Transport Rule is scheduled to be finalized in 2011. The CAIR will remain in place until that time. Depending on the approach adopted, the Transport Rule may provide allowance allocations for the Midwest Generation plants which are adequate for the plants' needs or may require the Midwest Generation plants to procure additional allowances, based on projected emissions using the Illinois CPS allowable emission rates. The Transport Rule may require the installation of additional environmental equipment on Units 1 and 2 at the Homer City plant to reduce SO2 emissions and, depending on the approach adopted, may also require Homer City to procure a significant number of additional allowances pending such installation or curtail operations if it is unable to do so on acceptable terms.  

 Proposed NAAQS for Sulfur Dioxide 

In June 2010, the US EPA finalized the primary NAAQS for SO2 by establishing a new one-hour standard at a level of 75 parts per billion. The final standard is being taken into account in EMG's environmental compliance strategy. Revisions to SIPs to achieve compliance with the new standard are due to be submitted to the US EPA by February 2014, with a compliance deadline of August 2017.  

 Illinois 

On December 11, 2006, Midwest Generation entered into an agreement with the Illinois EPA to reduce mercury, NOx and SO2 emissions at the Midwest Generation plants. The agreement has been embodied in the CPS. All of Midwest Generation's Illinois coal-fired electric generating units are subject to the CPS. The principal emission standards and control technology requirements for NOx and SO2 under the CPS are as described below:  

 NOx Emissions—Beginning in calendar year 2012 and continuing in each calendar year thereafter, Midwest Generation must comply with an annual and seasonal NOx emission rate of no more than 0.11 lbs/million Btu. In addition to these standards, Midwest Generation must install and operate SNCR equipment on Units 7 and 8 at the Crawford Station by December 31, 2015.  

 SO2 Emissions—Midwest Generation must comply with an overall SO2 annual emission rate beginning with 0.44 lbs/million Btu in 2013 and decreasing annually until it reaches 0.11 lbs/million Btu in 2019 and thereafter.  

The CPS also specifies the control technologies that are to be installed on some units by specified dates. In these cases, Midwest Generation must either install the required technology by the specified deadline or shut down the unit. The CPS also required Midwest Generation to shut down Unit 6 at the Waukegan Station by December 31, 2007, and Units 1 and 2 at the Will County Station by December 31, 2010, which it has done.  

During 2009, Midwest Generation also conducted tests of NOx removal technology based on SNCR that may be employed to meet CPS requirements. Based on this testing, Midwest Generation has concluded that installation of SNCR technology on multiple units will meet the NOx portion of the CPS. Capital expenditures for installation of SNCR equipment are expected to be approximately $109 million in 2011.  

Testing of dry scrubbing using Trona on select Midwest Generation units has demonstrated significant reductions in SO2 emissions. Use of this technology in conjunction with low sulfur coal is expected to require substantially less capital and time than spray dryer absorber technology, but would likely result in higher ongoing operating costs and may consequently result in lower dispatch rates and competitiveness of Midwest Generation's plants, depending on competitors' costs. For further discussion, see "Edison International Overview—Environmental Developments—Midwest Generation and Compliance Plans and Cost" in the MD&A.  

 Pennsylvania 

The Homer City plant was subject to CAIR during 2010 and complied with both the NOx and SO2 requirements using existing equipment and purchasing of SO2 allowances. Pennsylvania adopted a state version of CAIR, which the US EPA approved in December 2009. Homer City expects to comply with the  

20 

Table of Contents 

Pennsylvania CAIR, which is substantially similar to the federal CAIR, in the same manner in which it complies with the federal CAIR.  

 Mercury/Hazardous Air Pollutants 

     Clean Air Mercury Rule/Hazardous Air Pollutant Regulations 

The CAMR was established by the US EPA as an attempt to reduce mercury emissions from existing coal-fired power plants using a cap-and-trade program. In February 2007, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated both the CAMR and the related US EPA decision to remove oil- and coal-fired power plants from the list of sources to be regulated under the provisions of the CAA governing the emissions of HAPs.  

In accordance with a consent decree entered in April 2010, the US EPA committed to proposing regulations by March 2011 limiting emissions of HAPs from coal- and oil-fired electrical generating units that are major sources of HAPs, and to finalizing such regulations by November 2011. The emissions standards must be designed to achieve the maximum degree of emission reduction that the US EPA determines is achievable for the affected units, taking into account costs and non-air quality environmental and health benefits (also referred to as maximum achievable control technology, or MACT, standard). Unlike the CAMR, the US EPA must regulate all of the HAPs emitted by these generating units. Compliance with the MACT standards will be required three years after the effective date of the final regulations. Until the US EPA's regulations are finalized, EMG cannot determine whether the actions it is taking to comply with other legal requirements (including the CPS) will be sufficient to address its obligations under the new HAPs regulations.  

 Illinois 

Midwest Generation's compliance with the CPS supersedes the Illinois mercury regulations that would otherwise be applicable to the Midwest Generation plants. The CPS requires that, beginning in calendar year 2015, and continuing thereafter on a rolling 12-month basis, Midwest Generation must either achieve an emission standard of .008 lbs mercury/GWh gross electrical output or a minimum 90% reduction in mercury for each unit (except Unit 3 at the Will County Station, which will be included in calendar year 2016).  

Midwest Generation installed required carbon injection equipment on all operating units in 2009 to achieve the necessary mercury reductions. Capital expenditures relating to these controls were $42 million. Midwest Generation will be required to install cold side electrostatic precipitator or baghouse equipment on Unit 7 at the Waukegan Station by December 31, 2013, and on Unit 3 at the Will County Station by December 31, 2015. The IEPA granted Midwest Generation a construction permit to install a cold side electrostatic precipitator on Unit 7 in November 2010.  

 Pennsylvania 

Until Pennsylvania passes new legislation authorizing the adoption of mercury regulations or the US EPA finalizes a revised HAPs regulation that includes mercury limits, the Homer City plant will not be required to comply with Pennsylvania mercury limitations. The Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection ("PADEP") attempted to implement regulations reducing the mercury emissions at coal-fired power plants by 80% by 2010 and 90% by 2015, as embodied in the Pennsylvania CAMR SIP. The Pennsylvania Supreme Court upheld a decision by the Commonwealth Court declaring Pennsylvania's mercury rule unlawful, invalid and unenforceable, and enjoining the continued implementation and enforcement of the rule.  

 Ozone and Particulates 

     National Ambient Air Quality Standards 

In January 2010, the US EPA proposed a revision to the primary and secondary NAAQS for 8-hour ozone that it had finalized in 2008. The 8-hour ozone standard established in 2008 was 0.075 parts per million. In January 2010, the US EPA proposed establishing a primary 8-hour ozone NAAQS between 0.060 and 0.070 parts per million and a distinct secondary standard to protect sensitive vegetation and ecosystems. The US  

21 

Table of Contents 

EPA is expected to finalize the revision to the ozone NAAQS by July 2011. It is expected that once the US EPA finalizes the revised ozone NAAQS, it will propose a second Transport Rule that may further affect electric power generating units. The US EPA is also expected to propose revised fine particulate matter NAAQS in 2011, which could result in further emission reduction requirements in future years.  

 Illinois 

The Illinois SIP for compliance with 1997 8-hour ozone standard was submitted to the US EPA in March 2009. The SIP for fine particulates was submitted to the US EPA in June 2010. As the fine particulate and ozone standards are finalized, as described above, Illinois may be required to implement additional emission control measures to address emissions of NOx, SO2 and volatile organic compounds.  

 Pennsylvania 

In August 2007, the US EPA accepted PADEP's maintenance plan, which indicated that the existing (and upcoming) regulations controlling emissions of volatile organic compounds and NOx will result in continued compliance with the 1997 8-hour ozone standard. However, in March 2009, the PADEP recommended to the US EPA that Indiana County (where the Homer City plant is located) be designated non-attainment under the US EPA's 2008 revised 8-hour ozone standard. Until the US EPA completes its revision to the 8-hour ozone standard, redesignations are finalized, and additional regulations are developed to achieve attainment with the revised standard, EMG will not know what specific requirements it will have to meet. However, EMG expects that its currently installed SCRs will be capable of meeting these new requirements.  

Effective April 1, 2009, the PADEP changed its air opacity policy, eliminating many exemptions and reducing the allowable exceedance rate to 0.5% of a unit's operating time. Homer City undertook optimization of unit ramp rates and combustion parameters at the Homer City plant to reduce the deratings required to meet the opacity standards. Additional capital improvements may also be required. Homer City operated below the 0.5% exceedance rate during 2010.  

With respect to fine particulates, in November 2009, the US EPA determined that Indiana County (where the Homer City plant is located) had not attained applicable standards. The PADEP must submit an updated SIP by November 13, 2012. EMG cannot predict the potential effects on the Homer City plant of changes to the SIP.  

 Regional Haze 

The regional haze rules under the CAA are designed to prevent impairment of visibility in certain federally designated areas. The goal of the rules is to restore visibility in mandatory federal Class I areas, such as national parks and wilderness areas, to natural background conditions by 2064. Sources such as power plants that are reasonably anticipated to contribute to visibility impairment in Class I areas may be required to install best available retrofit technology ("BART") or implement other control strategies to meet regional haze control requirements. The US EPA issued a final rulemaking on regional haze in 2005 requiring emission controls that constitute BART for industrial facilities that emit air pollutants which reduce visibility by causing or contributing to regional haze. These amendments required states to develop SIPs to comply with BART by December 2007, to identify the facilities that will have to reduce SO2, NOx and particulate matter emissions, and then to set BART emissions limits for those facilities. Failure to do so would result in the imposition of a FIP. Because the Four Corners plant is located on the Navajo Reservation there is no applicable SIP and the plant will be subject only to a FIP.  

In relation to Four Corners, the US EPA issued its proposed FIP in October 2010. The proposed FIP would require the installation of SCR pollution control equipment by approximately 2016 on all Four Corners units. In November 2010, SCE and APS entered into an agreement for the sale of SCE's Four Corners interest to APS, subject to regulatory approvals and other conditions. A final FIP is expected in 2011. Due to the investment constraints of SB 1368, the California law on GHG emission performance standards discussed above in "—Climate Change—Regional Initiatives and State Legislation," SCE does not expect to be a Four Corners participant after the 2016 expiration of the current participant agreements and does not expect to participate in any investment in Four Corners SCRs. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment" for more information on the sale of SCE's interest in Four Corners.  

22 

Table of Contents 

 Illinois and Pennsylvania 

Beginning on December 31, 2009 Illinois and Pennsylvania became subject to a two-year deadline after which a FIP (which has not yet been proposed) will govern related emission issues. Pennsylvania submitted its proposed SIP revisions to the US EPA in December 2010 and Illinois is has prepared proposed revisions to its SIP and is expected to submit them to the US EPA in 2011. Illinois proposes that the emission reductions that the Midwest Generation plants will be required to make pursuant to the CPS, discussed above in "—Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Dioxide—Illinois," satisfy the BART requirement. Pennsylvania also proposes that the existing particulate matter emission limits on the Homer City plant, as well as the plant's participation in the CAIR, will satisfy the BART requirement in that state.  

 New Source Review Requirements 

The NSR regulations impose certain requirements on facilities, such as electric generating stations, if modifications are made to air emissions sources at the facility. Since 1999, the US EPA has pursued a coordinated compliance and enforcement strategy to address NSR compliance issues at the nation's coal-fired power plants. The strategy has included both the filing of suits against a number of power plant owners, and the issuance of administrative NOVs to a number of power plant owners alleging NSR violations. The US EPA has filed enforcement actions against Homer City and Midwest Generation alleging NSR violations. For further discussion, see "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies."  

 New Mexico 

In April 2009, APS, as operating agent of Four Corners, received a US EPA request pursuant to Section 114 of the CAA for information about Four Corners, including information about Four Corners' capital projects from 1990 to the present. SCE understands that in other cases the US EPA has utilized responses to similar Section 114 letters to examine whether power plants have triggered NSR requirements under the CAA. In May 2010, four environmental organizations (Dine CARE, National Parks Conservation Association, Sierra Club, and To Nizhoni Ani) served SCE and the other Four Corners owners with a notice of intent to sue under the CAA alleging violations of NSR requirements. The US EPA has not initiated any NSR enforcement-related proceedings with respect to Four Corners. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 2. Property, Plant and Equipment," for more information on the sale of SCE's interest in Four Corners.  

 Water Quality 

     Clean Water Act 

Regulations under the federal Clean Water Act govern critical parameters at generating facilities, such as the temperature of effluent discharges and the location, design and construction of cooling water intake structures at generating facilities. The US EPA is rewriting these regulations following a 2009 U.S. Supreme Court decision holding that the US EPA may consider, but is not required to use, a cost-benefit analysis for this purpose. The Supreme Court set a deadline of March 2011 for draft regulations, which are to be finalized by July 2011.  

Because there are no defined compliance targets absent a new rule, EMG and SCE are reviewing a wide range of possible control technologies. A new rule could have a material impact on EMG and SCE, but neither EMG nor SCE can determine the financial impact until the final compliance criteria have been published.  

 California—Prohibition on the Use of Ocean-Based Once-Through Cooling 

California has a US EPA-approved program to issue individual or group (general) permits for the regulation of Clean Water Act discharges. California also regulates certain discharges not regulated by the US EPA. In May 2010 the California State Water Resources Control Board issued a final policy, which establishes closed-cycle wet cooling as required technology for retrofitting existing once-through cooled plants like SCE's San Onofre and many of the existing fossil-fueled power plants along the California coast. The final policy, which took effect on October 1, 2010, requires an independent engineering study to be completed prior to the fourth quarter of 2013 regarding the feasibility of compliance by California's two  

23 

Table of Contents 

coastal nuclear power plants, which may result in significant capital expenditures at San Onofre and may affect its operations. The policy could adversely affect California's nineteen once-through cooled power plants, which provide over 21,000 MW of combined, in-state generation capacity, including over 9,100 MW of capacity interconnected within SCE's service territory. The policy may also significantly impact SCE's ability to procure generating capacity from fossil-fuel plants that use ocean water in once-through cooling systems, system reliability and the cost of electricity if other coastal power plants in California are forced to shut down or limit operations.  

 Illinois 

Midwest Generation is a party to an administrative proceeding before the Illinois Pollution Control Board ("PCB") to determine whether more stringent thermal and effluent water quality standards for the Chicago Area Waterway System and Lower Des Plaines River, which supply cooling water to Midwest Generation's Fisk, Crawford, Will County and Joliet Stations, will be implemented. The rule, if implemented, is expected to affect the manner in which those stations use water for station cooling. It is not possible to predict the timing for resolution of the proceeding, the final form of the rule, or how it would impact the operation of the affected stations; however, significant capital expenditures may be required.  

 Coal Combustion Wastes 

US EPA regulations currently classify coal ash and other coal combustion residuals as solid wastes that are exempt from hazardous waste requirements. This classification enables beneficial uses of coal combustion residuals, such as for cement production and fill materials. Midwest Generation currently provides a portion of its coal combustion residuals for beneficial uses.  

In June 2010, the US EPA published proposed regulations relating to coal combustion residuals. Two different proposed approaches are under consideration. The first approach, under which the US EPA would list these residuals as special wastes subject to regulation as hazardous wastes, could require EMG and SCE to incur additional capital and operating costs without assurance that the additional costs could be recovered. For SCE, to the extent such expenditures are for long-term extended operation of Four Corners, SCE does not expect to participate in any such expenditures consistent with SB 1368, the California law on GHG emission performance standards (see "—Climate Change—Regional Initiatives and State Legislation" above for a description of SB 1368). The second approach, under which the US EPA would regulate these residuals as nonhazardous wastes, would establish minimum technical standards for units that are used for the disposal of coal combustion residuals, but would allow procedural and enforcement mechanisms (such as permit requirements) to be exclusively a matter of state law. Many of the proposed technical standards are similar under both proposed options, but the second approach would not require the retrofitting of landfills used for the disposal of coal combustion residuals.  

24 

Table of Contents 

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS