ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

     RISKS RELATING TO EDISON INTERNATIONAL 

Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and the risk of adverse regulatory decisions and changes in applicable regulations or legislation.  

SCE operates in a highly regulated environment. SCE's business is subject to extensive federal, state and local energy, environmental and other laws and regulations. The CPUC regulates SCE's retail operations, and the FERC regulates SCE's wholesale operations. The NRC regulates SCE's nuclear power plants. The construction, planning, and project site identification of SCE's power plants and transmission lines in California are also subject to the jurisdiction of the California Energy Commission (for plants 50 MW or greater), and the CPUC. The construction, planning and project site identification of transmission lines that are outside of California are subject to the regulation of the relevant state agency. SCE must periodically apply for licenses and permits from these various regulatory authorities and abide by their respective orders. Should SCE be unsuccessful in obtaining necessary licenses or permits or should these regulatory authorities initiate any investigations or enforcement actions or impose penalties or disallowances on SCE, SCE's business could be adversely affected.  

EMG's projects are subject to federal laws and regulations that govern, among other things, transactions by and with purchasers of power, including utility companies, the development and construction of generation facilities, the ownership and operations of generation facilities, and access to transmission. Generation facilities are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation of a project. EMG in the course of its business must obtain and periodically renew licenses, permits and approvals for its facilities. The FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, where it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires mitigation. Independent System Operators and Regional Transmission Operators may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to facilitate market functions.  

This extensive governmental regulation creates significant risks and uncertainties for Edison International's business. Existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to SCE, EMG or their facilities or operations in a manner that may have a detrimental effect on Edison International's business or result in significant additional costs.  

Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive environmental regulations that may involve significant and increasing costs and adversely affect them.  

Edison International's subsidiaries are subject to extensive and frequently changing environmental regulations and permitting requirements that involve significant and increasing costs and substantial uncertainty. SCE and EMG devote significant resources to environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment and emission allowances to comply with existing and anticipated environmental regulatory requirements. However, the current trend is toward more stringent standards, stricter regulation, and more expansive application of environmental regulations. The adoption of laws and regulations to implement greenhouse gas controls could adversely affect operations, particularly of the coal-fired plants. Other environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge, and cooling water systems, are also generally becoming more stringent. The continued operation of SCE and EMG facilities, particularly the coal-fired facilities, is expected to require substantial capital expenditures for environmental controls or cessation of operations. Cessation of operations of such coal-fired plants at EMG would have a material adverse effect. SCE and EMG may also be exposed to risks arising from past, current or future contamination at its former or existing facilities or with respect to off site waste disposal sites that have been used in its operations. Current and future state laws and regulations in California also could increase the required amount of power that must be procured from renewable resources. For further discussion of the environmental regulations applicable to Edison International and its subsidiaries, see "Item 1. Business—Environmental Regulation of Edison International and Subsidiaries."  

25 

 Table of Contents  

Edison International may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or to repay funds for an extended period to Edison International.  

Edison International is a holding company and, as such, it has no operations of its own. Edison International's ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock at the current rate is primarily dependent on the earnings and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to make upstream distributions or to repay funds to Edison International. Prior to funding Edison International, Edison International's subsidiaries have financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including, among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. Financial market and economic conditions may have an adverse effect on Edison International's subsidiaries. See "Risks Relating to SCE" and "Risks Relating to EMG" below for further discussion.  

 RISKS RELATING TO SCE 

     Regulatory Risks 

SCE's financial results depend upon its ability to recover its costs in a timely manner from its customers through regulated rates.  

SCE's ongoing financial results depend on its ability to recover from its customers in a timely manner its costs, including the costs of electricity purchased for its customers, through the rates it charges its customers as approved by the CPUC, and its ability to pass through to its customers in rates its FERC-authorized revenue requirements. SCE's financial results also depend on its ability to earn through the rates it is allowed to charge an adequate return on capital, including long-term debt and equity. SCE's capital investment plan, California's commitment to renewable power, increasing environmental regulations, sensitivity to increasing natural gas costs and moderating demand, collectively place continuing upward pressure on customer rates. If SCE is unable to obtain a sufficient rate increase or to recover material amounts of its costs in rates in a timely manner or recover an adequate return on capital, its financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. For further information on SCE's rate requests, see "Edison International Overview—SCE Rate Cases" in the MD&A.  

SCE's energy procurement activities are subject to regulatory and market risks that could adversely affect its financial condition and liquidity.  

SCE obtains energy, capacity, renewable attributes and ancillary services needed to serve its customers from its own generating plants, as well as through contracts with energy producers and sellers. California law and CPUC decisions allow SCE to recover through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers reasonable procurement costs incurred in compliance with an approved procurement plan. Nonetheless, SCE's cash flows remain subject to volatility resulting from its procurement activities, including exposure to commodity price and counterparty credit risks. In addition, SCE is subject to the risks of unfavorable or untimely CPUC decisions about the compliance of procurement activities with SCE's procurement plan and the reasonableness of certain procurement-related costs.  

SCE may not be able to hedge its risk for commodities on economic terms or fully recover the costs of hedges through the rates it is allowed to charge its customers, which could adversely affect SCE's liquidity and results of operations. See "SCE: Market Risk Exposures" in the MD&A.  

 Operating Risks 

SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully manage the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities.  

SCE is engaged in one of the largest infrastructure investment programs in its history, which involves multiple large-scale projects in multiple locations. This substantial increase in activity from SCE's historical levels elevates the operational risks and the need for superior execution in its activities. SCE's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if it is unable to successfully manage these risks as well as the risks inherent in operating and improving its facilities, the operation of which can be hazardous. SCE's inherent operating risks include such matters as the risks of human performance, workforce capabilities, system limitations and degradation, failure or breaches of critical  

26 

Table of Contents 

information technology systems and interruptions in necessary supplies. See "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Investment Plan" in the MD&A.  

There are inherent risks associated with operating nuclear power generating facilities.  

Continued NRC scrutiny of regulatory and performance issues at San Onofre may result in additional corrective actions that will increase operations and maintenance costs or require additional capital expenditures.  

As discussed in "Item 1. Business—Southern California Edison Company—Regulation—Nuclear Power Plant Regulation," the NRC is conducting additional inspections and public meetings to assess the corrective actions taken at San Onofre in connection with various regulatory and performance issues. This scrutiny may result in SCE being required to take additional corrective actions and incur increased operations and maintenance expenses or new capital expenditures. If SCE is unable to take effective corrective actions, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon the NRC's assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  

Existing insurance and ratemaking arrangements may not protect SCE fully against losses from a nuclear incident.  

Federal law limits public liability claims from a nuclear incident to the amount of available financial protection which is currently approximately $12.6 billion. SCE and other owners of the San Onofre and Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Stations have purchased the maximum private primary insurance available of $375 million per site. If nuclear incident liability claims were to exceed $375 million, the remaining amount would be made up from contributions of approximately $12.2 billion made by all of the nuclear facility owners in the U.S., up to an aggregate total of $12.6 billion. There is no assurance that the CPUC would allow SCE to recover the required contribution made in the case of a nuclear incident claim(s) that exceeded $375 million. If this public liability limit of $12.6 billion is insufficient, federal law contemplates that additional funds may be appropriated by Congress. There can be no assurance of SCE's ability to recover uninsured costs in the event the additional federal appropriations are insufficient.  

Spent fuel storage capacity could be insufficient to permit long-term operation of SCE's nuclear plants.  

The U.S. Department of Energy has defaulted on its obligation to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel from commercial nuclear industry participants by January 31, 1998. If SCE or the operator of Palo Verde were unable to arrange and maintain sufficient capacity for interim spent-fuel storage now or in the future, it could hinder the operation of the plants and impair the value of SCE's ownership interests until storage could be obtained, each of which may have a material adverse effect on SCE.  

SCE's insurance coverage for wildfires arising from its ordinary operations may not be sufficient and Edison International may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance on SCE's behalf for such occurrences.  

Edison International has been experiencing increased costs and difficulties in obtaining insurance coverage for wildfires that could arise from SCE's ordinary operations. In addition, the insurance Edison International has obtained on SCE's behalf for wildfire liabilities may not be sufficient. Uninsured losses and increases in the cost of insurance may not be recoverable in customer rates. A loss which is not fully insured or cannot be recovered in customer rates could materially and adversely affect Edison International's and SCE's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, insurance for wildfire liabilities may not continue to be available at all or at rates or on terms similar to those presently available to Edison International. See "Item 8. Edison International Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 10. Regulatory and Environmental Developments."  

 Financing Risks 

As a capital intensive company, SCE relies on access to the capital markets. If SCE were unable to access capital markets or the cost of capital was to substantially increase, its liquidity and operations would be adversely affected.  

SCE regularly accesses capital markets to finance its activities and is expected to do so by its regulators as part of its obligation to serve as a regulated utility. SCE's needs for capital for its ongoing infrastructure investment program are substantial. SCE's ability to arrange financing as well as its ability to refinance debt  

27 

Table of Contents 

and make scheduled payments of principal and interest are dependent on numerous factors, including SCE's levels of indebtedness, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings, its financial performance, liquidity and cash flow, and other market conditions. SCE's failure to obtain additional capital from time to time would have a material adverse effect on SCE's liquidity and operations. See "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Capital Investment Plan" and "SCE: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Historical Segment Cash Flows" in the MD&A.  

 RISKS RELATING TO EMG 

     Liquidity Risks 

EME and its subsidiaries have significant cash requirements and limited sources of capital.  

At December 31, 2010, EME had corporate cash and cash equivalents of $615 million and $484 million of available borrowing capacity under its $564 million credit facility maturing in June 2012 and Midwest Generation had cash and cash equivalents of $295 million and $497 million of available borrowing capacity under its $500 million credit facility maturing in June 2012.  

As of December 31, 2010, EME's consolidated debt was approximately $4.5 billion. EME's subsidiaries had $2.9 billion of long-term, power plant lease obligations that are due over a period ranging up to 24 years. Compliance with current and forthcoming environmental requirements will add to EME's near-term liquidity needs.  

EME's and Midwest Generation's below-investment grade credit status may limit their ability to extend or replace credit facilities, including those maturing in 2012, should they choose to do so, and the terms and conditions of any refinancing could be substantially less favorable than those in the current credit facilities, depending on market conditions. In the case of a further downgrade, EME expects that these negative effects would become more pronounced. If EME's credit facilities are not extended or replaced, or if cash flow and other means for assuring liquidity are unavailable or insufficient, EME may be unable to complete environmental improvements at its coal plants (which in turn could lead to unit shutdowns) or to provide credit support for contracts for power and fuel related to merchant activities. The terms of EME's and its subsidiaries' debt instruments may restrict EME's subsidiaries ability to sell assets or incur secured indebtedness, and EME's subsidiaries' debt instruments may limit EME's ability to seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance debt to satisfy liquidity needs. For further discussion of EME's liquidity needs, see "EMG: Liquidity and Capital Resources" in the MD&A.  

EME depends upon tax-allocation payments from Edison International to meet its obligations. EME receives these payments only if, and only to the extent that, Edison International is able to utilize tax losses and credits generated by EME.  

EME receives tax-allocation payments for tax losses when and to the extent that the consolidated Edison International group generates sufficient taxable income to be able to utilize EME's consolidated tax losses and credits in the consolidated income tax returns for Edison International and its subsidiaries. The timing of certain tax-allocation payments was delayed in 2010 as a result of the Small Business Jobs Act and the 2010 Tax Relief Act, because Edison International was not able to fully utilize EME's consolidated tax losses and credits. Tax-allocation payments to EME may be further delayed until tax benefits are fully utilized by Edison International on a consolidated basis, which may take several years as a result of these new tax laws. See "Edison International Overview—Bonus Depreciation Impact on Edison International" in the MD&A for further discussion.  

These arrangements are subject to the terms of the tax-allocation and payment agreements among Edison International, EME and other Edison International subsidiaries. The agreements under which EME receives tax-allocation payments may be terminated by the immediate parent company at any time, by notice given before the first day of the first year with respect to which the termination is to be effective. However, termination does not relieve any party of any obligations with respect to any tax year beginning prior to the notice. See "EMG: Liquidity and Capital Resources—Intercompany Tax-Allocation Agreement" in the MD&A.  

28 

Table of Contents 

 Regulatory and Environmental Risks 

The controls imposed on the Midwest Generation plants as a result of the Combined Pollutant Standard may require material expenditures or unit shutdowns.  

All of Midwest Generation's Illinois coal-fired electric generating units are subject to the CPS. Capital expenditures relating to controls contemplated by the CPS are expected to be significant and could make some units uneconomic to maintain or operate. Midwest Generation may ultimately decide to comply with CPS requirements by shutting down units rather than making improvements. Unit shutdowns could have an adverse effect on EMG's business, results of operation and financial condition. For more information about the CPS requirements and Midwest Generation's plans for compliance, see "Item 1. Business—Environmental Matters and Regulations—Air Quality—Nitrogen Oxide and Sulfur Dioxide—Illinois."  

 Market Risks 

EMG has substantial interests in merchant energy power plants which are subject to market risks related to wholesale energy prices because they operate without long-term power purchase agreements. Wholesale energy prices have substantially declined in recent years.  

EMG's merchant energy power plants do not have long-term power purchase agreements. Because the output of these power plants is not committed to be sold under long-term contracts, these projects are subject to market forces which determine the amount and price of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from the power plants. Unlike most other commodities, electric power can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be produced when it is to be used. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to significant and unpredictable price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time. Due to the volume of sales into PJM from the coal plants, EMG has concentrated exposure to market conditions and fluctuations in PJM. Prices for power have declined significantly in recent years as a result of increased use of demand response technology, changes in final demand for power during the economic slowdown, and technological developments that have permitted the exploitation of natural gas shale reserves in a way that has resulted in substantial declines in market prices for natural gas which supplies power plants that compete with EMG's coal plants.  

Market prices of energy, capacity and ancillary services sold from these power plants are influenced by multiple factors beyond EMG's control, and thus there is considerable uncertainty whether or when current depressed prices will recover or whether EMG can effectively hedge the risks involved on economic terms. EMG's hedging activities may not cover the entire exposure of its assets or positions to market price volatility, and the level of coverage will vary over time. The effectiveness of EMG's hedging activities may depend on the amount of credit available to post collateral, either in support of performance guarantees or as cash margin, and liquidity requirements may be greater than EMG anticipates or will be able to meet. EMG cannot provide assurance that its hedging strategies will successfully mitigate market risks. For more detail on these matters, see "EMG: Market Risk Exposures—Commodity Price Risk" in the MD&A.  

EMG's financial results can be affected by changes in prices, transportation cost, and supply interruptions related to fuel, sorbents, and other commodities used for power generation and emission controls.  

In addition to volatile power prices, EMG's business is subject to changes in the cost of fuel, sorbents, and other commodities used for power generation and emission controls, and in the cost of transportation. These costs can be volatile and are influenced by many factors outside of EMG's control. The price at which EMG can sell its energy may not rise or fall at the same rate as a corresponding rise or fall in commodity costs. Operations at the coal plants are dependent upon the availability and affordability of coal which is available only from a limited number of suppliers and which, in the case of Midwest Generation, is transported by rail under a long-term transportation contract that will expire in 2011.  

All of these factors may have an adverse effect on EMG's financial condition and results of operations. See "EMG: Market Risk Exposures—Commodity Price Risk" in the MD&A.  

 Competition could adversely affect EMG's business 

EMG has numerous competitors in all aspects of its business some of whom may have greater liquidity, greater access to credit and other financial resources, lower cost structures, greater ability to withstand  

29 

Table of Contents 

losses, larger staffs or more experience than EMG. Multiple participants in the wholesale markets, including many regulated utilities, have a lower cost of capital than most merchant generators and often are able to recover fixed costs through rate base mechanisms, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generation assets without relying exclusively on market clearing prices to recover their investments. These factors could affect EMG's ability to compete effectively in the markets in which those entities operate. Newer plants owned by EMG's competitors are often more efficient than EMG's facilities and may also have lower costs of operation. Over time, some of EMG's merchant facilities may become obsolete in their markets, or be unable to compete with such plants.  

 Operating Risks 

EMG's development projects may not be successful.  

EMG's development activities are subject to risks including, without limitation, risks related to the identification of project sites, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals and the negotiation of project agreements, including power purchase agreements. EMG may be required to spend significant amounts for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal and other expenses before it can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. As a result of these risks, EMG may not be successful in developing new projects, or the timing of such development may be delayed beyond the date that equipment is ready for installation, in which case EMG may be required to incur material equipment and/or material costs with no deployment plan at delivery. Projects under development may also be adversely affected by delays in construction or equipment deliveries, commissioning delays or performance issues, and agreements with off-takers may contain damages and termination provisions related to failures to meet specified milestones. Due to competing capital needs, EMG's further development of its renewable business will depend upon the availability of third-party equity capital.  

EMG's projects may be affected by general operating risks and hazards customary in the power generation industry. EMG may not have adequate insurance to cover all these hazards.  

The operation of power generation facilities is a potentially dangerous activity that involves many operating risks, including transmission disruptions and constraints, equipment failures or shortages, and system limitations, degradation and interruption. EMG's operations are also subject to risks of human performance and workforce capabilities. There can be no assurance that EMG's insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances or protect against all hazards to which EMG may be subject, or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms similar to those presently available, or at all.  

EMG has a number of older facilities with potentially higher risks of failure or outage than an average plant, and EMG has in the past experienced serial defects in certain models of wind turbines deployed at its wind projects.  

Uncertainties in EMG's future operations could affect its ability to attract and retain skilled people.  

Uncertainties concerning EMG's future operations could affect its ability to attract and retain qualified personnel with experience in the energy industry. If EMG is unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, its results of operations will be negatively affected.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES