PART I   

  Item 1.    Business.    

 General  

 The financial statements presented in this report represent the consolidation of Waste Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation, our wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries and certain variable interest entities for which we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary. Waste Management, Inc. is a holding company and all operations are conducted by its subsidiaries. When the terms “the Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” are used in this document, those terms refer to Waste Management, Inc., its consolidated subsidiaries and consolidated variable interest entities. When we use the term “WMI,” we are referring only to the parent holding company.  

 WMI was incorporated in Oklahoma in 1987 under the name “USA Waste Services, Inc.” and was reincorporated as a Delaware company in 1995. In a 1998 merger, the Illinois-based waste services company formerly known as Waste Management, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of WMI and changed its name to Waste Management Holdings, Inc. (“WM Holdings”). At the same time, our parent holding company changed its name from USA Waste Services to Waste Management, Inc. Like WMI, WM Holdings is a holding company and all operations are conducted by subsidiaries. For detail on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of WMI, WM Holdings and their subsidiaries, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Our principal executive offices are located at 1001 Fannin Street, Suite 4000, Houston, Texas 77002. Our telephone number at that address is (713) 512-6200. Our website address is http://www.wm.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K are all available, free of charge, on our website as soon as practicable after we file the reports with the SEC. Our stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “WM.”  

 We are the leading provider of integrated waste services in North America. Using our vast network of assets and employees, we provide a comprehensive range of waste management services. Through our subsidiaries we provide collection, transfer, recycling, disposal and waste-to-energy services. In providing these services, we actively pursue projects and initiatives that we believe make a positive difference for our environment, including recovering and processing the methane gas produced naturally by landfills into a renewable energy source. Our customers include commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers, other waste management companies, electric utilities and governmental entities. During 2009, our largest customer represented approximately 1% of annual revenues. We employed approximately 43,400 people as of December 31, 2009.  

 Our Company’s goals are targeted at serving our customers, our employees, the environment, the communities in which we work, and our stockholders.  

 Our primary strategy continues to be to improve our organization and maximize returns to shareholders by focusing on operational excellence, pricing excellence and the profitable growth of our business. We believe that creating more efficient operations and attracting and retaining customers while ensuring appropriate pricing are the steps that provide the foundation for growth. We are continuing to focus on pricing and working to lower operating and selling, general and administrative expenses through process standardization and productivity improvements. We also are continuing programs designed to ensure we make the best use of our assets and capital to realize returns in addition to increasing our operating margins.  

 We intend to continue to focus on meeting the needs of a changing environment. As the largest waste services provider in North America, we believe we are well positioned to meet the needs of our customers and communities as they, too, Think Green®. We believe that helping our customers achieve their environmental goals will enable us to achieve profitable growth.  

 Our focus on operational excellence has provided us a strong foundation on which to build. We intend to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise and continue to seek profitable growth through targeted sales efforts and acquisitions. We also continue to seek to grow our business in different areas that fit into our current operations. We believe that making such investments will provide long-term value to our stockholders. In addition, we intend to continue to return value to our shareholders through common stock repurchases and dividend    

 2   
 payments. We recently announced that our Board of Directors expects that future quarterly dividend payments will be increased to $0.315 per share in 2010, which is an 8.6% increase from the quarterly dividend we paid in 2009. This will result in an increase in the amount of free cash flow that we expect to pay out as dividends for the seventh straight year, which is an indication of our ability to generate strong and consistent cash flows. All future dividend declarations will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors.  

 Operations  

 General  

 We manage and evaluate our principal operations through five Groups. Our four geographic Groups, which include our Eastern, Midwest, Southern and Western Groups, provide collection, transfer, recycling and disposal services. Our fifth Group is the Wheelabrator Group, which provides waste-to-energy services. We also provide additional services that are not managed through our five Groups, as described below. These operations are presented in this report as “Other.”  

 The table below shows the total revenues (in millions) contributed annually by each of our Groups, or reportable segments, in the three-year period ended December 31, 2009. More information about our results of operations by reportable segment is included in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in this report.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The services we provide include collection, landfill (solid and hazardous waste landfills), transfer, Wheelabrator (waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants), recycling and other services, as described below. The following table shows revenues (in millions) contributed by these services for each of the three years indicated:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Collection. Our commitment to customers begins with a vast waste collection network. Collection involves picking up and transporting waste and recyclable materials from where it was generated to a transfer station,    

 3   
 material recovery facility (“MRF”) or disposal site. We generally provide collection services under one of two types of arrangements:  

    •   For commercial and industrial collection services, typically we have a three-year service agreement. The fees under the agreements are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment we furnish, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility, labor costs, cost of disposal and general market factors. As part of the service, we provide steel containers to most customers to store their solid waste between pick-up dates. Containers vary in size and type according to the needs of our customers and the restrictions of their communities. Many are designed to be lifted mechanically and either emptied into a truck’s compaction hopper or directly into a disposal site. By using these containers, we can service most of our commercial and industrial customers with trucks operated by only one employee.   

    •   For most residential collection services, we have a contract with, or a franchise granted by, a municipality, homeowners’ association or some other regional authority that gives us the exclusive right to service all or a portion of the homes in an area. These contracts or franchises are typically for periods of one to five years. We also provide services under individual monthly subscriptions directly to households. The fees for residential collection are either paid by the municipality or authority from their tax revenues or service charges, or are paid directly by the residents receiving the service.    

 Landfill. Landfills are the main depositories for solid waste in North America. At December 31, 2009, we owned or operated 268 solid waste landfills, which represents the largest network of landfills in North America. Solid waste landfills are built and operated on land with geological and hydrological properties that limit the possibility of water pollution, and are operated under prescribed procedures. A landfill must be maintained to meet federal, state or provincial, and local regulations. The operation and closure of a solid waste landfill includes excavation, construction of liners, continuous spreading and compacting of waste, covering of waste with earth or other inert material and constructing final capping of the landfill. These operations are carefully planned to maintain sanitary conditions, to maximize the use of the airspace and to prepare the site so it can ultimately be used for other purposes.  

 All solid waste management companies must have access to a disposal facility, such as a solid waste landfill. We believe it is usually preferable for our collection operations to use disposal facilities that we own or operate, a practice we refer to as internalization, rather than using third-party disposal facilities. Internalization generally allows us to realize higher consolidated margins and stronger operating cash flows. The fees charged at disposal facilities, which are referred to as tipping fees, are based on several factors, including competition and the type and weight or volume of solid waste deposited.  

 We also operate five secure hazardous waste landfills in the United States. Under federal environmental laws, the federal government (or states with delegated authority) must issue permits for all hazardous waste landfills. All of our hazardous waste landfills have obtained the required permits, although some can accept only certain types of hazardous waste. These landfills must also comply with specialized operating standards. Only hazardous waste in a stable, solid form, which meets regulatory requirements, can be deposited in our secure disposal cells. In some cases, hazardous waste can be treated before disposal. Generally, these treatments involve the separation or removal of solid materials from liquids and chemical treatments that transform waste into inert materials that are no longer hazardous. Our hazardous waste landfills are sited, constructed and operated in a manner designed to provide long-term containment of waste. We also operate a hazardous waste facility at which we isolate treated hazardous waste in liquid form by injection into deep wells that have been drilled in rock formations far below the base of fresh water to a point that is separated by other substantial geological confining layers.  

 Transfer. At December 31, 2009, we owned or operated 345 transfer stations in North America. We deposit waste at these stations, as do other waste haulers. The solid waste is then consolidated and compacted to reduce the volume and increase the density of the waste and transported by transfer trucks or by rail to disposal sites.  

 Access to transfer stations is critical to haulers who collect waste in areas not in close proximity to disposal facilities. Fees charged to third parties at transfer stations are usually based on the type and volume or weight of the waste deposited at the transfer station, the distance to the disposal site and general market factors.   

 4   
 The utilization of our transfer stations by our own collection operations improves internalization by allowing us to retain fees that we would otherwise pay to third parties for the disposal of the waste we collect. It enables us to manage costs associated with waste disposal because (i) transfer trucks, railcars or rail containers have larger capacities than collection trucks, allowing us to deliver more waste to the disposal facility in each trip; (ii) waste is accumulated and compacted at transfer stations that are strategically located to increase the efficiency of our network of operations; and (iii) we can retain the volume by managing the transfer of the waste to one of our own disposal sites.  

 The transfer stations that we operate but do not own generally are operated through lease agreements under which we lease property from third parties. There are some instances where transfer stations are operated under contract, generally for municipalities. In most cases we own the permits and will be responsible for any regulatory requirements relating to the operation and closure of the transfer station.  

 Wheelabrator. As of December 31, 2009, we owned or operated 16 waste-to-energy facilities and five independent power production plants, or IPPs, which are located in the Northeast and in Florida, California and Washington.  

 At our waste-to-energy facilities, solid waste is burned at high temperatures in specially designed boilers to produce heat that is converted into high-pressure steam. As of December 31, 2009, our waste-to-energy facilities were capable of processing up to 21,100 tons of solid waste each day. In 2009, our waste-to-energy facilities received and processed 7.0 million tons of solid waste, or approximately 19,200 tons per day.  

 Our IPPs convert various waste and conventional fuels into steam. The plants burn wood waste, anthracite coal waste (culm), tires, landfill gas and natural gas. These facilities are integral to the solid waste industry, disposing of urban wood, waste tires, railroad ties and utility poles. Our anthracite culm facility in Pennsylvania processes the waste materials left over from coal mining operations from over half a century ago. Ash remaining after burning the culm is used to reclaim the land damaged by decades of coal mining.  

 We generate steam at our waste-to-energy and IPP facilities for the production of electricity. We sell the electricity produced at our facilities into wholesale markets, which include investor-owned utilities, power marketers and regional power pools. Some of our facilities also sell steam directly to end users. Fees charged for electricity and steam at our waste-to-energy facilities and IPPs have generally been subject to the terms and conditions of long-term contracts that include interim adjustments to the prices charged for changes in market conditions such as inflation, electricity and other general market factors. In 2009, several of our long-term energy contracts and short-term pricing arrangements expired, significantly increasing our waste-to-energy revenues’ exposure to volatility attributable to changes in market prices for electricity, which generally correlate with fluctuations in natural gas prices in the markets where we operate. Refer to the Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk section of this report for additional information about the Company’s current considerations related to the management of this market exposure.  

 Recycling. Our recycling operations focus on improving the sustainability and future growth of recycling programs within communities and industries. During the first quarter of 2009, we transferred responsibility for the oversight of day-to-day recycling operations at our material recovery facilities and secondary processing facilities to the management teams of our geographic Groups. Before that, all of our recycling operations other than certain services that were embedded within the geographic Groups’ other operations had comprised, and been reported as, a separate segment. The financial results of our material recovery facilities and secondary processing facilities are now included as a component of their respective geographic Group and the financial results of our recycling brokerage business and electronics recycling services are included as part of our “Other” operations. We believe that integrating the management of our recycling facilities with the remainder of our solid waste business ensures that we are focusing on maximizing the profitability and return on invested capital of all aspects of our business and efficiently providing comprehensive environmental solutions to our customers.  

 In 2001, we became the first major solid waste company to focus on residential single-stream recycling, which allows customers to mix recyclable paper, plastic and glass in one bin. Residential single-stream programs have greatly increased the recycling rates. Single-stream recycling is possible through the use of various mechanized screens and optical sorting technologies. We have also been advancing the single-stream recycling programs for    

 5   
 commercial applications. Recycling involves the separation of reusable materials from the waste stream for processing and resale or other disposition. Our recycling operations include the following:  

 Materials processing — Through our collection operations, we collect recyclable materials from residential, commercial and industrial customers and direct these materials to one of our MRFs for processing. We operate 90 MRFs where paper, metals, plastics, glass and other recyclable commodities are recovered for resale. We also operate eight secondary processing facilities where recyclable materials can be further processed into raw products used in the manufacturing of consumer goods. Specifically, material processing services include data destruction, automated color sorting, and construction and demolition processing.  

 Plastics materials recycling — Using state-of-the-art sorting and processing technology, we process, inventory and sell plastic commodities making the recycling of such items more cost effective and convenient.  

 Commodities recycling — We market and resell recyclable commodities to customers world-wide. We manage the marketing of recyclable commodities that are processed in our facilities by maintaining comprehensive service centers that continuously analyze market prices, logistics, market demands and product quality.  

 Fees for recycling services are influenced by the type of recyclable commodities being processed, the volume or weight of the recyclable material, degree of processing required, the market value of the recovered material and other market factors.  

 The recyclable materials processed in our MRFs are purchased from various sources, including third parties and our own operations. The cost per ton of material purchased is based on market prices and the cost to transport the finished goods to our customers to whom we sell the materials. The price we pay for recyclable materials is often referred to as a “rebate.” Rebates generally are based upon the price we receive for sales of finished goods and market conditions, but in some cases are based on fixed contractual rates or defined minimum per-ton rates. As a result, changes in commodity prices can significantly affect our revenues, the rebates we pay to our suppliers and our operating income and margins.  

 Other. Other services not managed within our Groups include the following:  

 We provide recycling brokerage and electronic recycling services. Recycling brokerage includes managing the marketing of recyclable materials for third parties. The experience of our recycling operations in managing recyclable commodities for our own operations gives us the expertise needed to effectively manage volumes for third parties. Utilizing the resources and knowledge of our recycling operations’ service centers, we can assist customers in marketing and selling their recyclable commodities with little to no capital requirements. We also provide electronics recycling. We recycle discarded computers, communications equipment, and other electronic equipment. Services include the collection, sorting and disassembling of electronics in an effort to reuse or recycle all collected materials. In recent years, we have teamed with major electronics manufacturers to offer comprehensive “take-back” programs of their products to assist the general public in disposing of their old electronics in a convenient and environmentally safe manner.  

 We provide sustainability services to businesses through our Upstream® and Green Squad organizations. This includes in-plant services, where our employees work full-time inside our customers’ facilities to provide full-service waste management solutions and consulting services. Our vertically integrated waste management operations enable us to provide customers with full management of their waste. The breadth of our service offerings and the familiarity we have with waste management practices gives us the unique ability to assist customers in identifying recycling opportunities, minimizing waste, and determining the most efficient means available for waste collection and disposal.  

 We develop, operate and promote projects for the beneficial use of landfill gas through our Waste Management Renewable Energy Program. Landfill gas is produced naturally as waste decomposes in a landfill. The methane component of the landfill gas is a readily available, renewable energy source that can be gathered and used beneficially as an alternative to fossil fuel. The EPA endorses landfill gas as a renewable energy resource, in the same category as wind, solar and geothermal resources. At December 31, 2009, landfill gas beneficial use projects were producing commercial quantities of methane gas at 119 of our solid waste landfills. At 87 of these landfills, the    

 6   
 processed gas is delivered to electricity generators. The electricity is then sold to public utilities, municipal utilities or power cooperatives. At 23 landfills, the gas is delivered by pipeline to industrial customers as a direct substitute for fossil fuels in industrial processes. At nine landfills, the landfill gas is processed to pipeline-quality natural gas and then sold to natural gas suppliers.  

 Our WM Healthcare Solutions subsidiary offers integrated medical waste services for healthcare facilities, pharmacies and individuals. We provide full-service solutions to facilities to assist them in best practices, indentifying waste streams and proper disposal. Our healthcare services also include a sharps mail return program through which individuals can safely dispose of their used syringes and lancets using our MedWaste Tracker system.  

 Although by their very nature many waste management services such as collection and disposal are local services, our National Accounts program works with customers whose locations span the United States. Our National Accounts program provides centralized customer service, billing and management of accounts to streamline the administration of customers’ multiple and nationwide locations’ waste management needs.  

 We also have begun investing in businesses and technologies that are designed to offer services and solutions ancillary or supplementary to our current operations. These investments include joint ventures, acquisitions and partial ownership interests. The solutions and services include the development, operation and marketing of plasma gasification facilities; operation of a landfill gas-to-liquid natural gas plant; solar powered compact trash compactors; and organic waste-to-fuel conversion technology. Part of our expansion of services includes offering portable self-storage services and fluorescent bulb and universal waste mail-back through our LampTracker® program.  

 Finally, we rent and service portable restroom facilities to municipalities and commercial customers under the name Port-o-Let®, and provide street and parking lot sweeping services.  

 Competition  

 The solid waste industry is very competitive. Competition comes from a number of publicly held solid waste companies, private solid waste companies, large commercial and industrial companies handling their own waste collection or disposal operations and public and private waste-to-energy companies. We also have competition from municipalities and regional government authorities with respect to residential and commercial solid waste collection and solid waste landfills.  

 Operating costs, disposal costs and collection fees vary widely throughout the geographic areas in which we operate. The prices that we charge are determined locally, and typically vary by the volume and weight, type of waste collected, treatment requirements, risk of handling or disposal, frequency of collections, distance to final disposal sites, the availability of airspace within the geographic region, labor costs and amount and type of equipment furnished to the customer. We face intense competition in our core business based on pricing and quality of service. We have also begun competing for business based on service offerings. As companies, individuals and communities have begun to look for ways to be more sustainable, we are ensuring our customers know about our comprehensive services that go beyond our core business of picking up and disposing of waste.  

 Employees  

 At December 31, 2009, we had approximately 43,400 full-time employees, of which approximately 7,300 were employed in administrative and sales positions and the balance in operations. Approximately 9,900 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  

 Financial Assurance and Insurance Obligations  

 Financial Assurance  

 Municipal and governmental waste service contracts generally require contracting parties to demonstrate financial responsibility for their obligations under the contract. Financial assurance is also a requirement for obtaining or retaining disposal site or transfer station operating permits. Various forms of financial assurance also    

 7   
 are required by regulatory agencies for estimated closure, post-closure and remedial obligations at many of our landfills. In addition, certain of our tax-exempt borrowings require us to hold funds in trust for the repayment of our interest and principal obligations.  

 We establish financial assurance using surety bonds, letters of credit, insurance policies, trust and escrow agreements and financial guarantees. The type of assurance used is based on several factors, most importantly: the jurisdiction, contractual requirements, market factors and availability of credit capacity. The following table summarizes the various forms and dollar amounts (in millions) of financial assurance that we had outstanding as of December 31, 2009:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    We use surety bonds and insurance policies issued by a wholly-owned insurance subsidiary, National Guaranty Insurance Company of Vermont, the sole business of which is to issue financial assurance to WMI and our subsidiaries. National Guaranty Insurance Company is authorized to write up to approximately $1.4 billion in surety bonds or insurance policies for our closure and post-closure requirements, waste collection contracts and other business-related obligations.  

  (b)    We hold a non-controlling financial interest in an entity that we use to obtain financial assurance. Our contractual agreement with this entity does not specifically limit the amounts of surety bonds or insurance that we may obtain, making our financial assurance under this agreement limited only by the guidelines and restrictions of surety and insurance regulations.  

  (c)    WMI has a $2.4 billion revolving credit facility that matures in August 2011. At December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings and $1,578 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility. The unused and available credit capacity of the facility was $822 million as of December 31, 2009.  

  (d)    We have three separate letter of credit facilities, including a $175 million facility maturing in June 2010; a $105 million facility maturing June 2013; and a $100 million facility maturing December 2014. At December 31, 2009, $371 million of letters of credit were outstanding under these agreements, leaving an unused and available capacity of $9 million.  

  (e)    Our funded trust and escrow accounts generally have been established to support landfill closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations and our performance under various operating contracts. Balances maintained in these trust funds and escrow accounts will fluctuate based on (i) changes in statutory requirements; (ii) future deposits made to comply with contractual arrangements; (iii) the ongoing use of      

 8   
     funds for qualifying activities; (iv) acquisitions or divestitures of landfills; and (v) changes in the fair value of the financial instruments held in the trust fund or escrow accounts. The assets held in our funded trust and escrow accounts may be drawn and used to meet the obligations for which the trusts and escrows were established.  

  (f)    WMI provides financial guarantees on behalf of its subsidiaries to municipalities, customers and regulatory authorities. They are provided primarily to support our performance of landfill closure and post-closure activities.   

 Our $2.4 billion revolving credit facility becomes current in the third quarter of 2010. Accordingly, we will be working to renegotiate our existing facility in the near-term. We currently expect that the cost of a similar facility will be significantly higher than the cost of our existing facility. In an effort to manage our financial assurance costs as well as ensure that we have access to facilities that meet our ongoing financial assurance needs, we are currently evaluating options for alternative cost-effective sources of financial assurance.  

 Virtually no claims have been made against our financial assurance instruments in the past, and considering our current financial position, management does not expect there to be claims against these instruments that will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements.  

 Insurance  

 We carry a broad range of insurance coverages, including general liability, automobile liability, real and personal property, workers’ compensation, directors’ and officers’ liability, pollution legal liability and other coverages we believe are customary to the industry. Our exposure to loss for insurance claims is generally limited to the per incident deductible under the related insurance policy. As of December 31, 2009, our per-incident deductible for our general liability program was $2.5 million and our per-incident deductible for our workers’ compensation insurance program was $5 million. As of December 31, 2009, our auto liability insurance program included a per-incident base deductible of $5 million, subject to additional aggregate deductibles in the $5 million to $10 million layer of $4.8 million. We do not expect the impact of any known casualty, property, environmental or other contingency to have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our estimated insurance liabilities as of December 31, 2009 are summarized in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Regulation  

 Our business is subject to extensive and evolving federal, state or provincial and local environmental, health, safety and transportation laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are administered by the U.S. EPA and various other federal, state and local environmental, zoning, transportation, land use, health and safety agencies in the United States and various agencies in Canada. Many of these agencies regularly examine our operations to monitor compliance with these laws and regulations and have the power to enforce compliance, obtain injunctions or impose civil or criminal penalties in case of violations.  

 Because the major component of our business is the collection and disposal of solid waste in an environmentally sound manner, a significant amount of our capital expenditures is related, either directly or indirectly, to environmental protection measures, including compliance with federal, state or provincial and local provisions that regulate the placement of materials into the environment. There are costs associated with siting, design, operations, monitoring, site maintenance, corrective actions, financial assurance, and facility closure and post-closure obligations. In connection with our acquisition, development or expansion of a disposal facility or transfer station, we must often spend considerable time, effort and money to obtain or maintain required permits and approvals. There cannot be any assurances that we will be able to obtain or maintain required governmental approvals. Once obtained, operating permits are subject to renewal, modification, suspension or revocation by the issuing agency. Compliance with these and any future regulatory requirements could require us to make significant capital and operating expenditures. However, most of these expenditures are made in the normal course of business and do not place us at any competitive disadvantage.   

 9   
 The primary United States federal statutes affecting our business are summarized below:  

    •   The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, regulates handling, transporting and disposing of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and delegates authority to states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste. In 1991, the EPA issued its final regulations under Subtitle D of RCRA, which set forth minimum federal performance and design criteria for solid waste landfills. These regulations are typically implemented by the states, although states can impose requirements that are more stringent than the Subtitle D standards. We incur costs in complying with these standards in the ordinary course of our operations.   

    •   The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, which is also known as Superfund, provides for federal authority to respond directly to releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances into the environment that have created actual or potential environmental hazards. CERCLA’s primary means for addressing such releases is to impose strict liability for cleanup of disposal sites upon current and former site owners and operators, generators of the hazardous substances at the site and transporters who selected the disposal site and transported substances thereto. Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the intentional disposal of hazardous substances; it can be based upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of lawful, unintentional and non-negligent action, of hazardous substances as the term is defined by CERCLA and other applicable statutes and regulations. Liability may include contribution for cleanup costs incurred by a defendant in a CERCLA civil action or by an entity that has previously resolved its liability to federal or state regulators in an administrative or judicially-approved settlement. Liability could also include liability to a PRP that voluntarily expends site clean-up costs. Further, liability may include damage to publicly-owned natural resources. We are subject to potential liability under CERCLA as an owner or operator of facilities at which hazardous substances have been disposed or as a generator or transporter of hazardous substances disposed of at other locations.   

    •   The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, known as the Clean Water Act, regulates the discharge of pollutants into streams, rivers, groundwater, or other surface waters from a variety of sources, including solid and hazardous waste disposal sites. If run-off from our operations may be discharged into surface waters, the Clean Water Act requires us to apply for and obtain discharge permits, conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. In 1990, the EPA issued additional standards for management of storm water runoff that require landfills and other waste-handling facilities to obtain storm water discharge permits. In addition, if a landfill or other facility discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly-owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by the treatment works. Also, before the development or expansion of a landfill can alter or affect “wetlands,” a permit may have to be obtained providing for mitigation or replacement wetlands. The Clean Water Act provides for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for violations of its provisions.   

    •   The Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended, provides for increased federal, state and local regulation of the emission of air pollutants. Certain of our operations are subject to the requirements of the Clean Air Act, including large municipal solid waste landfills and large municipal waste-to-energy facilities. Standards have also been imposed on manufacturers of transportation vehicles (including waste collection vehicles). In 1996 the EPA issued new source performance standards and emission guidelines controlling landfill gases from new and existing large landfills. The regulations impose limits on air emissions from large municipal solid waste landfills, subject most of our large municipal solid waste landfills to certain operating permitting requirements under Title V of the Clean Air Act and, in many instances, require installation of landfill gas collection and control systems to control emissions or to treat and utilize landfill gas on or off-site. In general, controlling emissions involves drilling collection wells into a landfill and routing the gas to a suitable energy recovery system or combustion device. We are currently capturing and utilizing the renewable energy value of landfill gas at 119 of our solid waste landfills. In January 2003, the EPA issued additional regulations that required affected landfills to prepare, by January 2004, startup, shutdown and malfunction plans to ensure proper operation of gas collection, control and treatment systems.     

 10   
 The EPA has issued new source performance standards and emission guidelines for large and small municipal waste-to-energy facilities, which include stringent emission limits for various pollutants based on Maximum Achievable Control Technology standards. These sources are also subject to operating permit requirements under Title V of the Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act requires the EPA to review and revise the MACT standards applicable to municipal waste-to-energy facilities every five years.  

    •   The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and various reporting and record keeping obligations as well as disclosure and procedural requirements. Various standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work and the handling of asbestos, may apply to our operations. The Department of Transportation and OSHA, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, including safety, movement and disposal. Various state and local agencies with jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste may seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.    

 There are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. Sometimes states’ regulations are stricter than federal laws and regulations when not otherwise preempted by federal law. Additionally, our collection and landfill operations could be affected by legislative and regulatory measures requiring or encouraging waste reduction at the source and waste recycling.  

 Various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. While laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. Additionally, certain state and local governments have enacted “flow control” regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. In 1994, the United States Supreme Court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007 the Court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. The United States Congress’ adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control or the adoption of legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the state level could adversely affect our operations. Courts’ interpretation of flow control legislation or the Supreme Court decisions also could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services.  

 Many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted “fitness” laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant’s or permit holder’s compliance history. Some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. These laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant’s or permit holder’s fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations.  

 See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures relating to our current assessments of the impact of regulations on our current and future operations.  

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors.