Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company’s primary market risk exposures are interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The following table presents the Company’s aggregate fixed rate and variable rate debt obligations outstanding, including fair market value adjustments and unamortized deferred financing costs, as of December 31, 2016, with corresponding weighted-average interest rates sorted by maturity date. The table does not include extension options where available. The instruments’ actual cash flow amounts are in millions. 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on the Company’s variable-rate debt balances, interest expense would have increased by $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, if short-term interest rates were 1.0% higher. 

The following table presents the Company’s foreign investments and respective cumulated translation adjustments (“CTA”) as of December 31, 2016. Investment amounts are shown in their respective local currencies and the U.S. dollar equivalents, CTA balances are shown in U.S. dollars: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 

Currency fluctuations between local currency and the U.S. dollar, for investments for which the Company has determined that the local currency is the functional currency, for the period in which the Company held its investment result in a CTA. This CTA is recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The CTA amounts are subject to future changes resulting from ongoing fluctuations in the respective foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in exchange rates are impacted by many factors that cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy. Any change could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the Company’s CTA balance. The Company’s aggregate CTA gain balance at December 31, 2016, is $6.3 million.  

Under GAAP, the Company is required to release CTA balances into earnings when the Company has substantially liquidated its investment in a foreign entity. The Company may, in the near term, substantially liquidate its remaining investment in Canada, which will require the then unrealized gain on foreign currency translation to be recognized as earnings.  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data