ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis provides information which management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of the Company’s consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto.

Business Overview

Newell Rubbermaid (which may be referred to hereafter as the “Company” or “our”) is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that help people get more out of life every day, where they live, learn, work and play. The Company’s products are marketed under a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Expo®, Prismacolor®, Mr. Sketch®, Elmer’s®, Parker®, Waterman®, Dymo®, Rubbermaid®, Contigo®, Goody®, Calphalon®, Irwin®, Lenox®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Graco®, Aprica® and Baby Jogger®.

The Company is executing its Growth Game Plan, a strategy to simplify the organization and free up resources to invest in growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities in support of the Company’s brands. The Company considers the changes being implemented in the execution of the Growth Game Plan to be key enablers to building a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable company. 

During 2015, the Company continued the cadence of consistent execution and delivery while simultaneously driving its change agenda to propel the Growth Game Plan into action. During 2015, the Company executed against the Strategic Phase of the Growth Game Plan, investing in core activity systems critical to the Company’s success, unlocking trapped capacity for growth through Project Renewal, investing in new capabilities and the Company’s brands for accelerated growth, and beginning to leverage an operating company structure to release the full potential of the business. The Company expects to transition to the Acceleration Phase of the Growth Game Plan during 2016.

The Company is driving the Growth Game Plan into action and simplifying its structure through the execution of Project Renewal, making sharper portfolio choices and investing in new marketing and innovation to accelerate performance. In the Growth Game Plan operating model, the Company has two core activity systems, Development and Delivery, supported by three business partnering functions, Human Resources, Finance/IT and Legal, and four winning capabilities in Design, Marketing & Insight, Supply Chain and Customer Development, all in service to drive accelerated performance in the Company’s five segments. The Company’s five segments and the key brands included in each segment are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In October 2015, the Company acquired Elmer’s Products, Inc. (“Elmer’s”) for a purchase price of $570.1 million. Elmer’s, whose brands include Elmer’s®, Krazy Glue® and X-Acto®, is a provider of activity-based adhesive and cutting products that inspire creativity in the classroom, at home, in the office, in the workshop and at the craft table. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, Elmer’s results of operations were included in the Company’s statement of operations since the acquisition date, including net sales of $36.3 million. Elmer’s is reported as part of our Writing segment.

Based on the Company’s strategy to allocate resources to its businesses relative to each business’ growth potential and, in particular, those businesses with the greater right to win in the marketplace, during 2015 the Company divested its Rubbermaid medical cart 

 27
business and initiated a process to divest its Levolor® and Kirsch® window coverings brands (“Décor”). The Rubbermaid medical cart business focuses on optimizing nurse work flow and medical records processing in hospitals and was included in the Commercial Products segment. The Company sold substantially all of the assets of the Rubbermaid medical cart business in August 2015. The Rubbermaid medical cart business was included in the Company’s consolidated results from continuing operations, including net sales of $26.5 million, until it was sold in August 2015. Décor will continue to be reported in our results from continuing operations as part of our Home Solutions segment until the business is sold, which is expected in 2016. In 2015, Décor generated $300.8 million of net sales. The assets and liabilities of Décor that are subject to divestiture are classified as current assets held for sale and current liabilities held for sale in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015. 

The Endicia on-line postage and the Culinary electrics and retail businesses have been classified as discontinued operations since the Company committed in 2014 to sell these businesses. Endicia was included in our Writing segment, and the Culinary businesses were included in our Home Solutions segment. During 2015, the Company sold Endicia for a sales price of $208.7 million, subject to customary working capital adjustments. During 2015, the Company ceased operations in its Culinary electrics and retail businesses. 

Proposed Acquisition of Jarden Corporation 

On December 13, 2015, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) to acquire Jarden Corporation (“Jarden”). Jarden is a leading, global consumer products company with leading brands, such as Yankee Candle, Crock-Pot, FoodSaver, Mr. Coffee, Oster, Coleman, First Alert, Rawlings, Jostens, K2, Marker, Marmot, Volkl, and many others. The merger is expected to create a consumer goods company with estimated annual sales of $16 billion to be named Newell Brands Inc. (“Newell Brands”), with a portfolio of leading brands in large, growing, unconsolidated, global markets. Newell Rubbermaid anticipates significant annualized cost synergies will be realized by Newell Brands, driven by efficiencies of scale and efficiencies in procurement, cost to serve and infrastructure.

Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, by and among Newell Rubbermaid, Jarden, NCPF Acquisition Corp. I, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newell Rubbermaid (“Merger Sub 1”), and NCPF Acquisition Corp. II, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newell Rubbermaid (“Merger Sub 2”), Merger Sub 1 will be merged with and into Jarden, with Jarden surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newell Rubbermaid, and immediately thereafter, Jarden will be merged with and into Merger Sub 2, with Merger Sub 2 continuing as the surviving corporation as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newell Rubbermaid (collectively, the “Proposed Merger Transactions”). Upon completion of the Proposed Merger Transactions, Jarden will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newell Rubbermaid and will no longer be a publicly held corporation. 

In connection with the Proposed Merger Transactions, each share of Jarden common stock will be converted into the right to receive and become exchangeable for merger consideration consisting of (1) 0.862 of a share of Newell Rubbermaid common stock plus (2) $21.00 in cash. Based on the closing price of a share of Newell Rubbermaid common stock on February 24, 2016 of $37.74 per share, the implied total consideration is approximately $14.0 billion, including $5.5 billion of cash and $8.5 billion of Newell Rubbermaid common stock. Based on the estimated 225.0 million shares of Newell Rubbermaid common stock expected to be issued in the Proposed Merger Transactions, stockholders of Newell Rubbermaid and stockholders and convertible noteholders of Jarden immediately before the Proposed Merger Transactions will own 54% and 46%, respectively, of Newell Brands upon completion of the Proposed Merger Transactions. 

Newell Rubbermaid entered into a commitment letter for a $10.5 billion senior unsecured bridge credit facility, the availability of which has since been reduced to $9.0 billion because Newell Rubbermaid subsequently entered into the $1.5 billion term loan facility. The total available amount of the bridge credit facility is subject to further reduction in equivalent amounts upon the completion of any issuance of debt or equity securities by Newell Rubbermaid. Newell Rubbermaid currently intends to finance the $5.5 billion cash portion of the merger consideration and related fees and expenses incurred by it in connection with the Proposed Merger Transactions, to refinance approximately $4.5 billion of outstanding Jarden debt and to assume two tranches of outstanding Jarden debt with principal amounts of $300 million and €300 million, with up to approximately $10.1 billion of new debt expected to be incurred in the form of (1) up to approximately $8.6 billion of newly issued Newell Rubbermaid debt securities and the $1.5 billion term loan facility, depending on market conditions at the time of obtaining the financing and available cash balances, and (2) available balance sheet cash and the net cash proceeds, if any, from the planned divestiture of the Décor business. To the extent necessary, Newell Rubbermaid may also fund all or a portion of the cash portion of the merger consideration from borrowings under the bridge credit facility (as completed by the commitment letter with a lender) or from borrowings under other permanent or alternative financing.

Newell Rubbermaid and Jarden currently expect the Proposed Merger Transactions to close during the second quarter of 2016. The Proposed Merger Transactions are subject to the approval of the share issuance by Newell Rubbermaid stockholders and the adoption of the Merger Agreement by Jarden stockholders, as well as regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. 

 28
Market and Performance Overview

The Company operates in the consumer and commercial products markets, which are generally impacted by overall economic conditions in the regions in which the Company operates. The following is a summary of the Company’s progress in 2015 in driving the Growth Game Plan into action: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The impact of acquisitions includes Elmer’s sales from October 22, 2015, the date of acquisition, through December 31, 2015; Ignite sales up to, but excluding, the month of September, the month the business was acquired in 2014; bubba sales through October 2015, the month the business was acquired in 2014; and, Baby Jogger sales up to, but excluding the month of December, the month the business was acquired in 2014. Businesses that have been divested or for which there is a plan to divest the business are excluded from core sales beginning with the quarter in which the Company determines to divest the business. Accordingly, the impact of planned and completed divestitures includes the divested Rubbermaid medical cart business for the entire year and Décor for the period July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2015.

Core sales is determined by applying a fixed exchange rate, calculated as the 12-month average in the prior year, to the current and prior year local currency sales amounts, with the difference, after removing the impact of acquisitions and planned and completed divestitures, equal to changes in core sales, and the difference between the change in reported net sales and the change in total constant-currency sales, calculated using the 12-month average exchange rate in the prior year, being attributable to currency.

•Core sales increased 9.4% in the Company’s Win Bigger businesses, which includes Writing & Creative Expression in the Writing segment, Food & Beverage in the Home Solutions segment, and the Tools and Commercial Products segments. Net sales in the Company’s Win Bigger businesses increased 7.2%, which includes a 490 basis point contribution from acquisitions and a 710 basis point adverse impact from foreign currency. 

•Gross margin was 39.0%, up 50 basis points compared to the prior year. The improvement was driven by productivity, pricing, lower input costs (including resin) and the comparison to the prior year period which reflected the impacts of the Graco harness buckle recall, which more than offset unfavorable foreign currency and sourced product, labor and other input cost inflation. Unfavorable foreign currency resulted in a 150 basis point decrease in gross margin, and the adverse impact of the cost of products sold associated with the Graco product recall in the prior year’s results contributed 20 basis points of improvement. 

•Selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”) increased $93.4 million to $1,573.9 million, due primarily to increased advertising and promotion in support of the Company’s brands and innovation, costs associated with the Graco product recall, SG&A of acquired businesses (Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger), costs associated with due diligence for the Jarden transaction, increased annual incentive compensation and increased costs associated with Project Renewal transformation initiatives, partially offset by a reduction in overhead costs due to Project Renewal initiatives and the impacts of foreign currency. 

The Company’s advertising and promotion strategy is to invest behind innovation, including new product launches, and in building brands. During 2015, the Company increased advertising and promotion investments by $42.3 million, representing an incremental 60 basis points as a percentage of net sales to 4.9%. The Company’s investments in brand-building and consumer demand creation and commercialization activities in 2015 included the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•continued investment in InkJoy® advertising in the North America, Europe and Latin America markets;

•continued advertising for Mr. Sketch® scented markers in the U.S. market;

•advertising support for Parker® in China, Japan, Hong Kong and the United Kingdom; 

•advertising support behind Dymo® Office, supporting the Why Write campaign in the Europe and U.S. markets;

 29
[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•advertising support behind Irwin Brazil’s 240 Cart Tool Box campaign; 

•advertising for Irwin’s Vise-Grip® family of hand tools;[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•advertising for Graco 4Ever® All-in-One convertible car seat; and 

•advertising for the Graco Nautilus® Plus 3-in-1 car seat.

The Company plans to continue increasing advertising and promotion in support of its brands to drive growth.

•Settled U.S. pension liabilities with plan assets for certain participants which resulted in a $52.1 million non-cash settlement charge in the fourth quarter of 2015.

•Continued execution of Project Renewal to simplify the business, reduce structural costs and increase investment in the most significant growth platforms within the business by taking significant steps in implementing activities centered around Project Renewal’s five workstreams, resulting in $74.0 million of restructuring costs in 2015.

•Realized a $9.2 million foreign exchange loss during 2015 for the Company’s Venezuelan operations associated with declines in the SICAD exchange rate for the Venezuela Bolivar throughout the year and recognized a $172.7 million pretax charge ($165.1 million after tax) upon deconsolidation of the Company’s Venezuela subsidiary on December 31, 2015.

•Reported a 23.2% effective tax rate for 2015, compared to an effective tax rate of 19.3% for 2014. During 2015, the Company’s effective tax rate was adversely impacted by the geographical mix of earnings, the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies and the implied tax rate associated with the $7.6 million income tax benefit on the $172.7 million Venezuela deconsolidation charge, which were partially offset by benefits from the impact of increased foreign tax credits. During 2014, the Company recognized discrete income tax benefits of $15.5 million related to the resolution of certain tax contingencies and $18.4 million of income tax benefits associated with the net reduction of valuation allowances on certain international deferred tax assets. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•The Company sold its Endicia® on-line postage business for $208.7 million of net proceeds, resulting in a net gain from sale of $95.6 million included in discontinued operations.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•In October 2015, the Company completed the offering and sale of $600.0 million of medium-term notes, consisting of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.15% notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) and $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.90% notes due 2025 (the “2025 Notes” and, together with the 2018 Notes, the “Notes”). The aggregate net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were $594.5 million, which were used for the acquisition of Elmer’s Products, Inc. (“Elmer’s”) and for general corporate purposes. 

Acquisitions

In October 2015, the Company acquired Elmer’s for $570.1 million. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and accordingly, Elmer’s results of operations were included in the Company’s statement of operations since the acquisition date, including net sales of $36.3 million. Elmer’s is included in the Writing segment.

In December 2015, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement to acquire Jarden in the Proposed Merger Transactions and create Newell Brands. In 2015, the Company incurred $10.8 million of costs associated with the Jarden transaction, which are classified as SG&A, and $2.0 million of interest costs for financing arrangements associated with the Jarden transaction.

 30
During 2014, the Company completed the acquisitions of Ignite Holdings, LLC (“Ignite”) and Baby Jogger Holdings, Inc. (“Baby Jogger”) and acquired the assets of bubba brands, inc. (“bubba”). The Ignite and bubba acquisitions give the Company’s Home Solutions segment access to additional channels in the on-the-go hydration and thermal bottle market in North America and fit with the Company’s strategy of accelerating growth by leveraging its capabilities across additional product categories, geographies and channels. The Baby Jogger acquisition gives the Baby & Parenting segment a premium brand and the opportunity to expand its geographic footprint. The results of operations of Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger are included in the Company’s consolidated financial statements beginning on the respective acquisition dates of each business in 2014, which included net sales of $51.1 million, $13.4 million and $4.4 million for Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger, respectively, in 2014.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•On October 22, 2014, the Company acquired the assets of bubba for $82.4 million. bubba is a designer and marketer of durable beverage containers in North America. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Key Initiatives

Project Renewal

During April 2015, the Company committed to a further expansion of Project Renewal (the “April 2015 Expansion”), a program initially launched in October 2011 to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in growth platforms within the business, funded by a reduction in structural SG&A costs. Project Renewal is designed to simplify and align the business around two key activities — Brand & Category Development and Market Execution & Delivery. Project Renewal encompasses projects centered around five workstreams:

•Organizational Simplification: The Company has de-layered its top structure and further consolidated its businesses from nine Global Business Units (“GBUs”) to three operating groups that manage five operating segments.

•EMEA Simplification: The Company is focusing its resources on fewer products and countries, while simplifying go-to-market, delivery and back office support structures.

•Best Cost Finance: The Company is delivering a simplified approach to decision support, transaction processing and information management by leveraging SAP and the streamlined business segments to align resources with the Growth Game Plan. 

•Best Cost Back Office: The Company is driving “One Newell Rubbermaid” efficiencies in customer and consumer services and sourcing functions. 

•Supply Chain Footprint: The Company is further optimizing manufacturing and distribution facilities across its global supply chain. 

Through Project Renewal, the Company has been realigned from a holding company comprised of 13 GBUs, each with its own support structure, to an operating company with three operating groups that manage five operating segments. The operating company structure is centered around four primary capabilities: Design; Marketing & Insight; Supply Chain; and Customer Development. The Company has developed centers of excellence in each of these capabilities and has realigned its back office support structure functions (Human Resources, Finance/IT and Legal) to support the four primary capabilities. This realignment has led to efficiencies and cost reductions, allowing the Company to increase investments in its brands and capabilities. In addition, through Project Renewal, the Company has simplified its go-to-market and back office structures in EMEA which has resulted in significant Project Renewal costs and savings in the EMEA region. 

Pursuant to an expansion of Project Renewal in October 2014, the Company is: (i) further streamlining its supply chain function, including reducing overhead and realigning the supply chain management structure; (ii) investing in value analysis and value engineering efforts to reduce product and packaging costs; (iii) reducing operational and manufacturing complexity in its Writing segment; and (iv) further streamlining its distribution and transportation functions. 

Under the April 2015 Expansion, the Company is implementing additional activities designed to further streamline business partnering functions (e.g., Finance/IT, Legal and Human Resources), optimize global selling and trade marketing functions and 

 31
rationalize the Company’s real estate portfolio. The April 2015 Expansion is expected to generate annualized incremental overhead cost savings of approximately $150 million when fully implemented by the end of 2017, which includes savings expected to be realized during 2018 from projects completed in 2017. In connection with the April 2015 Expansion, the Company expects to incur approximately $150 million of additional costs, including cash costs of approximately $135 million. The additional costs include pretax restructuring charges in the range of $125 to $135 million, a majority of which are expected to be facility exit costs and employee-related cash costs, including severance, retirement and other termination benefits.

Cumulative costs of the expanded Project Renewal are now expected to be approximately $690 to $725 million pretax, with cash costs of approximately $645 to $675 million. Project Renewal in total is expected to generate annualized cost savings of approximately $620 to $675 million by the end of 2017, which includes savings expected to be realized during 2018 from projects completed in 2017. The Company achieved its targeted savings of approximately $270 to $325 million by the end of the first half of 2015, having realized annualized savings of approximately $311 million through the second quarter of 2015. Through December 31, 2015, the Company has realized annualized savings of approximately $360 million. The majority of these savings have been, and the majority of future savings from Project Renewal initiatives are expected to be, reinvested in the business to strengthen brand building and selling capabilities in priority markets around the world. 

Through December 31, 2015, the Company had incurred $309.8 million and $158.7 million of restructuring and other project-related costs, respectively. The majority of the restructuring costs represent employee-related cash costs, including severance, retirement and other termination benefits and costs. Other project-related costs represent organizational change implementation costs, including advisory and consultancy costs, compensation and related costs of personnel dedicated to transformation projects, and other costs associated with the implementation of Project Renewal. Through December 31, 2015, the Company estimates it has reduced its headcount by approximately 2,500 employees as a result of Project Renewal initiatives.

The following table summarizes the estimated costs and savings relating to Project Renewal, as well as the actual results through December 31, 2015 (amounts in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

* Includes savings expected to be realized during 2018 from projects completed in 2017.

In 2015, the Company has continued to execute existing projects as well as initiate new activities relating to Project Renewal as follows:

•Initiated plans to relocate the Company’s corporate headquarters from 3 Glenlake Parkway in Atlanta, Georgia, to 6655 Peachtree Dunwoody Road in Atlanta, Georgia in early 2016. The new space will reflect a brand-led, innovative company with headquarters purpose-fit for how employees work today and into the future.

•The ongoing implementation of the EMEA Simplification workstream, which includes projects focused on profitable growth in the region, including the closure, consolidation and/or relocation of certain manufacturing facilities, distribution centers, customer support and sales and administrative offices. During 2015, the Company initiated a project focused on aligning the sales and marketing capabilities in the region, a project in the Best Cost Finance workstream and a project focused on optimizing the region’s activities and relationships with its sourcing partners. 

•Ongoing evaluations of the Company’s overhead structure, supply chain organization and processes, customer development organization alignment, and pricing structure to optimize and transform processes, simplify the organization and reduce costs. During 2015, the Company initiated a project focused on optimizing the sales and marketing overhead cost structure in North America and Latin America. 

•The continued execution of projects to streamline the three business partnering functions, Human Resources, Finance/IT and Legal, and to align these functions with the new operating structure, including the ongoing execution of projects to reduce the Company’s IT footprint and centralize and optimize Human Resources support activities.

•The ongoing reconfiguration and consolidation of the Company’s manufacturing footprint and distribution centers to reduce overhead, improve operational efficiencies and better utilize existing assets, including the initiation of projects to reduce the Home Solutions and Tools segments’ manufacturing footprint in North America, to reduce the Baby & Parenting segment’s manufacturing footprint in Asia Pacific and to better align the Writing segment’s worldwide supply chain footprint.

 32
•The creation of a Transformation Office to lead and manage the various workstreams that are integral to the expanded Project Renewal initiatives, including investing in value analysis and value engineering efforts to reduce product and packaging costs and reducing operational and manufacturing complexity in the Writing segment.

One Newell Rubbermaid

The Company strives to leverage common business activities and best practices to build functional capabilities and to build one common culture of shared values with a focus on collaboration and teamwork. Through this initiative, the Company has established regional shared service centers to leverage nonmarket-facing functional capabilities to reduce costs. In addition, the Company has expanded its focus on leveraging common business activities and best practices by reorganizing the business around two of the critical elements of the Growth Game Plan — Brand & Category Development and Market Execution & Delivery, enhancing its Customer Development and Global Supply Chain organizations and consolidating activities into centers of excellence for design and innovation capabilities and marketing capabilities.

The Company is also migrating multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP global information platform in a phased, multi-year rollout. SAP is expected to enable the Company to integrate and manage its worldwide business and reporting processes more efficiently. Substantially all of the Company’s North American, Latin American and European operations are live on SAP, and the Company plans to implement SAP in its Asia Pacific operations in 2016. 

Foreign Currency - Venezuela

The Company began accounting for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting in January 2010. Under highly inflationary accounting, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes (“Bolivars”) into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. The Company’s Venezuelan operations are primarily included in the Writing segment. The Company generally imports raw materials into Venezuela and manufactures writing instruments locally. The Company’s Venezuelan operations also import components and finished goods. Generally, purchases of imported products are denominated in U.S. Dollars. The Company has historically used various means, including price increases and productivity initiatives, to offset increased costs due to the impacts of high inflation and currency devaluations. During the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company’s Venezuelan operations generated 2.2%, 1.4% and 1.4% of consolidated net sales, respectively and approximately $51 million, $30 million and $34 million of the Company’s reported operating income, respectively. The Venezuelan operations also generated approximately $40 million of cash flow from operating activities during 2015. 

Beginning in July 2013, the Venezuelan government authorized certain companies that operate in designated industry sectors to exchange a limited volume of Bolivars for U.S. Dollars at a bid rate established via weekly auctions under a system referred to as “SICAD I.” During the first quarter of 2014, the government expanded the types of transactions that may be subject to the weekly SICAD I auction rate while retaining the official rate of 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar and introduced another currency exchange mechanism (“SICAD II”). The official exchange rate for settling certain transactions through the National Center of Foreign Trade (“CENCOEX”), including imports of essential goods, remained at 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar. In March 2014, the Company analyzed the multiple rates available and the Company’s estimates of the applicable rate at which future transactions could be settled and dividends could be paid. Based on this analysis, the Company determined as of March 31, 2014 that the SICAD I rate was the most appropriate rate to use prospectively for remeasurement rather than the CENCOEX rate, which the Company used up to March 31, 2014. As a result, the Company recorded net foreign exchange losses of $45.6 million in 2014, including $38.7 million of foreign exchange losses during the three months ended March 31, 2014, based on the adoption of and ongoing changes in the SICAD I exchange rate applicable for remeasuring the net monetary assets of the Company’s Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivars. As of December 31, 2014, the SICAD I auction rate was 12.0 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar, and the SICAD II rate was 50.0 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar.

In February 2015, the Venezuelan government announced changes in its foreign currency exchange system. The official rate of 6.3 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar continued to be made available for purchases of essential goods. The SICAD I exchange mechanism became known as SICAD. There were SICAD auctions conducted during 2014 and 2015, and the exchange rate in the last SICAD auction in 2015 was 13.5 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar. The SICAD II market has been eliminated, and a new alternative currency market, the Foreign Exchange Marginal System (“SIMADI”) has been created. The SIMADI market is intended to have a floating exchange rate determined by market participants. SIMADI became operational with an initial exchange rate of approximately 170 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar. The SIMADI rate has since increased to 198.7 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar as of December 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2015, it is unclear how future SICAD auctions will work, and the volume of transactions in the SIMADI market since its inception has been limited. The Company last participated in a SICAD auction in the fourth quarter of 2014. 

 33
During 2014, the Company was awarded $7.5 million and $16.0 million via the CENCOEX and SICAD I exchange mechanisms, respectively, and during 2015, the Company was awarded $1.6 million via the CENCOEX exchange mechanism. The Company’s Venezuelan operations used these amounts to pay third party and intercompany vendors. The Company did not participate in the SICAD II market in 2014 or 2015 and did not participate in the SIMADI market in 2015. 

Based on an assessment of the rate at which future transactions could be settled and dividends could legally be paid by the Company’s Venezuelan operations, the Company used the SICAD rate during the year ended December 31, 2015, which was a rate of 13.5 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar as of December 31, 2015. As a result of declines in the SICAD rate from 12.0 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar at December 31, 2014 to 13.5 Bolivars per U.S. Dollar as of December 31, 2015, the Company recorded foreign exchange losses of $9.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 based on the change in the SICAD rate used for remeasuring the net monetary assets of the Company’s Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivars.

As part of the changes implemented in the first quarter of 2014, the Venezuelan government also issued a Law on Fair Pricing, establishing a maximum profit margin of 30% for the types of products the Company sells in Venezuela. In addition, new regulations implemented in 2015 require the Company to identify the ultimate retail price to consumers on products it sells to distributors in Venezuela. In October 2015, the Venezuelan government reduced the maximum profit margin from 30% to 20% for the types of goods the Company imports into the country for sale. For locally manufactured goods the Company sells, the maximum profit margin remains at 30%. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company determined it could no longer exercise control over its Venezuela operations because the availability of U.S. Dollars had declined significantly over the past several years in each of Venezuela’s three exchange mechanisms. The Company most recently participated in a SICAD auction in the fourth quarter of 2014 and had very little access to the CENCOEX exchange mechanism during 2015. As the conditions in Venezuela have continued to deteriorate, including increasingly restrictive exchange control regulations and reduced access to U.S. Dollars through official currency exchange mechanisms, the Company concluded that an other-than-temporary lack of exchangeability between the Bolivar and the U.S. Dollar existed as of December 31, 2015. Furthermore, increasingly restrictive governmental regulations related to prices the Company can charge for its products, distribution channels into which the Company can sell its products, product labeling requirements, importation of raw materials and sourced products which must be purchased in U.S. Dollars, and labor matters have restricted the Company’s ability to make and execute decisions related to its Venezuelan operations. Additionally, the exchange restrictions have prevented the Venezuela business from paying royalties and dividends, restricting the ability of the Company to benefit from the earnings of its Venezuela operations. These factors impact the Company’s ability to make key operational and financial decisions regarding its Venezuelan operations, such as the Company’s ability to manage its Venezuelan operations’ capital structure, material sourcing, product pricing and labor relations. As a result, the Company deconsolidated its Venezuelan operations effective December 31, 2015 and began accounting for its investment in its Venezuelan operations using the cost method of accounting. As a result of deconsolidating its Venezuelan operations, the Company recorded a pretax charge of $172.7 million in 2015. The charge consisted of the write-off of the Venezuelan operations’ net assets of $74.7 million, as well as $58.3 million of Venezuela-related assets held by other subsidiaries, resulting in $133.0 million of total charges associated with the deconsolidation of Venezuela’s net assets. In addition, in accordance with applicable accounting standards for foreign currency and the transition to the cost method for the Company’s Venezuelan operations, the Company wrote-off the currency translation adjustment that arose prior to the application of hyperinflationary accounting in 2010 that was included in other comprehensive income in equity. The write-off of the currency translation adjustment resulted in a pretax charge of $39.7 million, which had no effect on net assets or total equity. 

Beginning in the first quarter of 2016, the Company will no longer include the results of its Venezuelan operations in its consolidated financial statements. The Company has operated in Venezuela for decades and plans to continue to manufacture and sell products in Venezuela. The Company will record revenues for sales of inventory to its Venezuelan operations in its consolidated financial statements to the extent the sales are realizable. Further, dividends and payments for intercompany receivables due from the Company’s Venezuelan operations will be recorded as other income upon receipt. Prior to the deconsolidation of the Venezuelan operations on December 31, 2015, the results of the Company’s Venezuelan operations have been included in the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations for all periods presented and have been included in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets for all periods prior to December 31, 2015.

 34
CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company believes the selected data and the percentage relationship between net sales and major categories in the Consolidated Statements of Operations are important in evaluating the Company’s operations. The following table sets forth items from the Consolidated Statements of Operations as reported and as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Results of Operations — 2015 vs. 2014

Net sales for 2015 were $5,915.7 million, representing an increase of $188.7 million, or 3.3%, from $5,727.0 million for 2014. Core sales increased 5.5%, which excludes a negative foreign currency impact of 5.8% and the positive net impact of acquisitions and planned and completed divestitures of 3.6%. The following table sets forth an analysis of changes in consolidated net sales for 2015 as compared to 2014 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core sales in the Company’s North American and international businesses increased 3.8% and 10.0%, respectively. Latin America led with core sales growth of 30.5% as a result of pricing and volume in the region, including Venezuela, improved Back-To-School performance, volume gains in the Win Bigger businesses and increased advertising and promotion. North America generated core growth of 3.8%, as core sales grew across all five segments, with strong core sales growth in the Writing, Commercial Products and Baby & Parenting segments. EMEA core sales increased 1.5% due to growth in the Writing, Commercial Products and Tools segments, which was offset by a decline in Baby & Parenting due to challenging market conditions in Russia and weakness in the Baby & Parenting segment across EMEA. The Writing segment’s growth in EMEA was due to distribution gains, merchandising and promotion support, pricing and strengthened innovation. Asia Pacific core sales increased 3.4%, as double-digit innovation-led core growth in Baby & Parenting and double-digit core growth in Commercial Products more than offset a slight decline in Writing. Overall, core sales growth in Venezuela contributed 160 basis points to the Company’s 5.5% core sales growth in 2015. The Company’s core sales growth in 2015 was favorably impacted by additional sell-in in advance of advertising and marketing support planned for 2016.

 35
Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, for 2015 was 39.0%, or $2,304.6 million, compared to 38.5%, or $2,203.4 million, for 2014, as the benefits of productivity, pricing, the adverse impact of the Graco product recall on the prior year’s results and lower input costs (including resin) more than offset the impacts of unfavorable foreign currency and sourced product, labor and other input cost inflation. 

SG&A expenses for 2015 were 26.6% of net sales, or $1,573.9 million, versus 25.9% of net sales, or $1,480.5 million, for 2014. SG&A expenses increased $93.4 million as a result of a $42.3 million increase in advertising and promotion investments, primarily relating to the Writing segment’s continued investment in advertising in North America, Latin America and Asia Pacific and increased advertising in the Tools, Commercial Products and Baby & Parenting segments. The increase was also driven by a $36.1 million year-over-year increase in Project Renewal related costs, including advisory costs for process transformation and optimization initiatives, which increased from $41.9 million for 2014 to $78.0 million for 2015. The increase was also attributable to $55.5 million of incremental SG&A expenses of Ignite, bubba, Baby Jogger and Elmer’s and a $30.7 million increase in annual incentive compensation expense. These increases were partially offset by the impacts of foreign currency and overhead cost savings from Project Renewal, which includes an estimated $8.0 million of annual costs for personnel that transitioned to the Transformation Office at the beginning of 2015 and are included in Project Renewal related costs in 2015.

In 2015 and 2014, the Company offered certain U.S. pension plan participants who have deferred vested benefits under the Company’s U.S. pension plan the opportunity to make a one-time election to receive a lump sum distribution of the present value of their benefits. Based on participants that accepted the offers, the Company paid $70.6 million and $98.6 million of lump sum distributions from plan assets in 2015 and 2014, respectively, which resulted in $52.1 million and $65.4 million of non-cash settlement charges during the fourth quarters of 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

The Company recorded restructuring costs of $77.2 million and $52.8 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively. The year-over-year increase in restructuring costs is primarily a result of larger projects being initiated in North America in 2015 associated with reducing structural overhead costs. The restructuring costs for 2015 primarily related to Project Renewal and consisted of $6.7 million of facility and other exit costs, including impairments, $54.9 million of employee severance, termination benefits and employee relocation costs and $15.6 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. The restructuring costs in 2014 primarily related to Project Renewal and consisted of $7.5 million of facility and other exit costs, including impairments, $22.9 million of employee severance, termination benefits and employee relocation costs and $22.4 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. See Footnote 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Operating income for 2015 was $601.4 million, or 10.2% of net sales, versus $604.7 million, or 10.6% of net sales, for 2014. The 40 basis point decline in operating margin was primarily attributable to a 70 basis point increase in SG&A as a percentage of net sales, which, as explained above, includes the impact of increased advertising and promotion spend, and increased restructuring costs, partially offset by a 50 basis point increase in gross margin.

Net nonoperating expenses for 2015 were $263.9 million versus $142.6 million for 2014. Interest expense for 2015 was $79.9 million, compared to $60.4 million for 2014. The increase is attributable to interest expense incurred during 2015 in connection with the bridge loan related to the acquisition of Elmer’s and the overall impact of higher overall borrowings to finance the acquisition of Elmer’s during the fourth quarter of 2015 and the acquisitions of Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger in the second half of 2014. Nonoperating expenses in 2015 included a charge of $172.7 million associated with deconsolidating the Company’s Venezuelan operations. These increases in nonoperating expenses were partially offset by the year-over-year decrease in foreign exchange losses associated with the adoption of and declines in the SICAD exchange rate used to remeasure the net monetary assets of the Company’s Venezuelan operations, which declined from $45.6 million during 2014 to $9.2 million during 2015, and the $33.2 million loss on extinguishment of debt incurred in 2014 associated with the repayment of $439.4 million principal amount of medium-term notes.

The Company recognized an effective income tax rate of 23.2% for 2015, which compared to an effective income tax rate of 19.3% for 2014. During 2015, the Company’s effective tax rate was adversely impacted by the geographical mix of earnings, the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies and the implied tax rate associated with the $7.6 million income tax benefit on the $172.7 million Venezuela deconsolidation charge, which were partially offset by benefits from the impact of increased foreign tax credits. During 2014, the Company recognized discrete income tax benefits of $15.5 million related to the resolution of certain tax contingencies and $18.4 million of net income tax benefits associated with the reduction of valuation allowances on certain international deferred tax assets.

For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded income of $90.7 million, net of tax, associated with discontinued operations, primarily due to the $95.6 million net gain recognized from the sale of the Endicia business. The Company recorded income of $4.8 million, net of tax, during the year ended December 31, 2014, which primarily relates to the Company’s Hardware, 

 36
Endicia and Culinary electrics and retail businesses. See Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

Results of Operations — 2014 vs. 2013

Net sales for 2014 were $5,727.0 million, representing an increase of $120.0 million, or 2.1%, from $5,607.0 million for 2013. Core sales increased 3.0% as foreign currency had the effect of decreasing net sales by 2.1%, while the acquisitions had the effect of increasing net sales by 1.2%. The following table sets forth an analysis of changes in consolidated net sales for 2014 as compared to 2013 (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Core sales in the Company’s North American and international businesses grew 2.1% and 5.4%, respectively. Latin America led with 22.6% core sales growth driven by strong innovation and pricing in the Writing segment, particularly in Venezuela, and strong innovation and increased distribution in the Tools segment in Brazil. North America reported modest core sales growth of 2.1%, as the Win Bigger businesses generated solid growth that was partially offset by declines in Home Solutions due to deemphasizing certain lower margin Rubbermaid product lines. Baby & Parenting core sales were flat in North America, as the Graco harness buckle recall impacted sales growth. Asia Pacific core sales growth of 0.4% was attributable to core sales growth across the Win Bigger businesses, partially offset by declines in Baby & Parenting primarily as a result of increased competition in Japan. EMEA had a core sales decline of 1.3% as a result of planned product and geographic exits, continued macroeconomic challenges in Western Europe and challenging market conditions in Eastern Europe. Overall, core sales growth in Venezuela contributed 70 basis points to core sales growth in 2014. The Company’s core sales growth in 2014 was favorably impacted by additional sell-in in advance of advertising and merchandising support planned for 2015.

Gross margin, as a percentage of net sales, for 2014 was 38.5%, or $2,203.4 million, an increase of 60 basis points compared to the prior year. Pricing, productivity and segment and product mix more than offset the impact of inflation, negative foreign currency, the $12.0 million of costs associated with the Graco harness buckle recall and the adverse impact of the $5.2 million increase in Venezuela cost of products sold due to changes in Venezuela exchange rates.

SG&A expenses for 2014 were 25.9% of net sales, or $1,480.5 million, versus 25.0% of net sales, or $1,399.5 million, for 2013. During 2014, the Company increased investments in advertising across all segments by $52.8 million, representing an incremental 90 basis points as a percentage of net sales. Continued investment in selling and e-commerce capabilities in North America and Latin America also contributed to the increase. The increase was also driven by an increase in organizational change implementation and restructuring-related costs and advisory costs for process transformation and optimization initiatives, which increased from $23.8 million in 2013 to $41.9 million in 2014, to support efforts to improve selling, pricing and supply chain capabilities. SG&A expenses in 2014 also include $5.5 million of acquisition and integration costs associated with the Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger acquisitions and $3.0 million of costs relating to the Graco harness buckle recall. These increases in SG&A were partially offset by Project Renewal cost savings.

In 2014, the Company recorded a $65.4 million non-cash pension settlement charge during the fourth quarter of 2014. 

The Company recorded restructuring costs of $52.8 million and $110.3 million for 2014 and 2013, respectively. The year-over-year decrease in restructuring costs is primarily due to the significant costs incurred in 2013 associated with the implementation of restructuring plans and initiatives under Project Renewal in Europe as part of the EMEA Simplification workstream. The restructuring costs in 2014 primarily related to Project Renewal and consisted of $7.5 million of facility and other exit costs, including impairments, $22.9 million of employee severance, termination benefits and employee relocation costs and $22.4 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. The restructuring costs in 2013 primarily relate to Project Renewal and consisted of $4.9 million of facility and other exit costs, including impairments, $89.4 million of employee severance, termination benefits and employee relocation costs and $16.0 million of exited contractual commitments and other restructuring costs. See Footnote 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Operating income for 2014 was 10.6% of net sales, or $604.7 million, versus 11.0% of net sales, or $615.1 million for 2013. Gross margin expansion was more than offset by the increased investment in brands and capabilities and the non-cash pension settlement charge of $65.4 million. 

Net nonoperating expenses for 2014 were $142.6 million versus $78.8 million for 2013. Interest expense for 2014 was $60.4 million, an increase of $0.1 million from $60.3 million for 2013, as the impact of higher average debt levels was offset by a lower 

 37
average interest rate and interest income earned on foreign cash balances. The increase in nonoperating expenses during 2014 was driven by the negative impact of the hyperinflationary accounting for the Company’s Venezuelan operations compared to 2013, which resulted in the Company recognizing $45.6 million of charges in 2014 based on the decline in value of the net monetary assets of its Venezuelan operations that are denominated in Bolivars compared to $11.1 million of charges in 2013, as well as the $33.2 million loss on extinguishment of debt associated with the repayment of $439.4 million principal amount of medium-term notes in 2014. 

The Company’s effective income tax rate was 19.3% and 22.4% for 2014 and 2013, respectively. During 2014, the Company recognized discrete income tax benefits of $15.5 million related to the resolution of certain tax contingencies and $18.4 million of net income tax benefits associated with the reduction of valuation allowances on certain international deferred tax assets. The tax rate for 2013 was impacted by $7.9 million of tax benefits related to the resolution of various income tax contingencies and the expiration of various statutes of limitation. Additionally, the 2013 tax rate was impacted by $19.5 million of net tax benefits associated with the recognition of incremental deferred tax assets. The tax rates for both 2014 and 2013 were impacted by the geographical mix in earnings.

Income from discontinued operations was $4.8 million for 2014 compared to $58.3 million for 2013. Income from discontinued operations during 2014 and 2013 relates to the Company’s Hardware, Teach, Endicia and Culinary electrics and retail businesses. The Company’s Hardware and Teach businesses were sold during 2013, which resulted in a net gain (including impairment charges) of $58.9 million in 2013. Income (loss) from discontinued operations was $1.4 million and $(0.6) million for 2014 and 2013, respectively. See Footnote 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Business Segment Operating Results:

2015 vs. 2014 Business Segment Operating Results

Net sales by segment were as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth an analysis of changes in net sales in each segment for 2015 as compared to 2014:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating income (loss) by segment was as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 38
(1)For 2015, includes $3.5 million of project-related costs associated with Project Renewal, $2.6 million of costs associated with Venezuelan inventory resulting from changes in the exchange rate for the Venezuelan Bolivar, and $1.2 million of acquisition and integration costs. For 2014, includes $5.2 million of costs associated with Venezuelan inventory resulting from changes in the exchange rate for the Venezuelan Bolivar. 

(2)For 2015, includes $2.3 million of project-related costs associated with Project Renewal and $1.5 million of acquisition, integration and divestiture costs. For 2014, includes $4.2 million of acquisition and integration costs associated with the Ignite and bubba acquisitions. 

(3)Includes $0.5 million and $1.7 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively, of project-related costs associated with Project Renewal. 

(4)Includes $4.7 million and $0.4 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively, of project-related costs associated with Project Renewal. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(6)For 2015, includes $78.9 million of project-related costs associated with Project Renewal, $10.8 million of costs associated with the Proposed Merger Transactions and a $52.1 million non-cash charge associated with the settlement of U.S. pension liabilities for certain participants with plan assets, For 2014, includes $31.7 million of project-related costs associated with Project Renewal, $10.2 million of advisory costs for process transformation and optimization initiatives and a $65.4 million non-cash charge associated with the settlement of U.S. pension liabilities for certain participants with plan assets, . 

Writing

Net sales for 2015 were $1,763.5 million, an increase of $54.6 million, or 3.2%, from $1,708.9 million for 2014. Core sales, which excludes the results of the Elmer’s business since October 22, 2015, the date of acquisition, and the impacts of foreign currency, increased 10.9%, driven by market share growth in North America and Latin America as a result of strengthened innovation and marketing, broadened core distribution and pricing in Latin America. Latin America continued to generate double-digit core sales growth, which includes pricing and higher volume in Venezuela in advance of the price tagging on packaging requirement. Core sales growth in Venezuela contributed 520 basis points to Writing core sales growth in 2015. North America core sales grew mid-single digits, attributable to innovation, increased advertising and promotion and merchandising efforts. EMEA core sales increased low-single digits, primarily attributable to pricing, distribution gains and merchandising support. Asia Pacific core sales decreased low-single digits. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 9.9% on net sales for the Writing segment, and the Elmer’s acquisition had a favorable impact of 2.2% on net sales for the Writing segment. 

Operating income for 2015 was $430.8 million, or 24.4% of net sales, an increase of $14.2 million, or 3.4%, from $416.6 million, or 24.4% of net sales, for 2014. Operating margin remained flat year-over-year, as pricing, productivity and overhead cost management were offset by negative foreign currency impacts and increased advertising and promotion spending. The increased advertising and promotion spending resulted in SG&A increasing 80 basis points as a percentage of net sales.

Home Solutions

Net sales for 2015 were $1,704.2 million, an increase of $128.8 million, or 8.2%, from $1,575.4 million for 2014. Core sales, which excludes the bubba business through October 2015, the Ignite business prior to September 2015, the Décor business for the third and fourth quarters of 2015 due to the planned divestiture of that business and the impacts of foreign currency, increased 0.8% due to growth in the Food & Beverage business, partially offset by planned declines in the lower margin Rubbermaid Consumer Storage business and the absence of prior year new customer pipeline fill and the transition to new product lines on Calphalon. The Décor business’ net sales decline for the six month period ended December 31, 2015 negatively impacted the Home Solutions segment’s net sales by 1.1%. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 1.4% on net sales, and the Ignite and bubba acquisitions prior to their annual anniversary had a favorable impact of 9.9% on net sales for the Home Solutions segment. 

Operating income for 2015 was $238.4 million, or 14.0% of net sales, an increase of $42.4 million, or 21.6%, from $196.0 million, or 12.4% of net sales, for 2014. The 160 basis point increase in operating margin is primarily a result of the positive mix effect of the Food & Beverage business, input cost deflation (including resin), productivity and Project Renewal savings, partially offset by increased advertising and promotion. Project Renewal savings and overhead cost management offset the increase in advertising and promotion, resulting in SG&A remaining flat as a percentage of net sales.

Tools

Net sales for 2015 were $790.0 million, a decrease of $62.2 million, or 7.3%, from $852.2 million for 2014. Core sales increased 2.2%, led by growth in EMEA due to innovation, distribution gains and pricing. The core sales growth includes continued growth on Irwin® offerings in Latin America and growth from the Lenox® industrial tools business in North America and EMEA. Core sales increased slightly in Asia Pacific as Irwin core sales growth in Australia was offset by declines in the industrial bandsaw business due to slowing industrial output in China. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 9.5% on net sales for the Tools segment.

Operating income for 2015 was $85.1 million, or 10.8% of net sales, a decrease of $9.5 million, or 10.0%, from $94.6 million, or 11.1% of net sales, for 2014. The 30 basis point decrease in operating margin was primarily attributable to increased advertising and promotion and the impact of negative foreign currency partially offset by Project Renewal-related overhead cost savings. SG&A decreased 70 basis points as a percentage of net sales due to overhead cost savings.

 39
Commercial Products

Net sales for 2015 were $809.7 million, a decrease of $27.4 million, or 3.3%, from $837.1 million for 2014. Core sales, which exclude the divested Rubbermaid medical cart business and foreign currency, increased 4.8%, mainly driven by innovation, marketing support, advertising and promotion and pricing in the North America, EMEA and Asia Pacific regions. The divested Rubbermaid medical cart business negatively impacted the Commercial Products segment’s net sales by 5.1%. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 3.0% on net sales for the Commercial Products segment.

Operating income for 2015 was $100.8 million, or 12.4% of net sales, a decrease of $0.5 million, or 0.5%, from $101.3 million, or 12.1% of net sales, for 2014. The 30 basis point increase in operating margin was primarily driven by pricing, productivity and input cost deflation, largely offset by higher advertising and promotion spend and the negative impact of foreign currency. Increased advertising and promotion resulted in SG&A increasing 110 basis points as a percentage of net sales. 

Baby & Parenting

Net sales for 2015 were $848.3 million, an increase of $94.9 million, or 12.6%, from $753.4 million for 2014. Core sales, which excludes the Baby Jogger business prior to December 2015 and foreign currency, increased 6.4% due to growth in North America and Asia Pacific. North America high-single digit core sales growth was attributable to innovation, advertising and promotion and the comparison to the prior year period which reflected the impacts of the Graco harness buckle recall. Asia Pacific double-digit core sales growth was attributable to innovation. Core sales growth in North America and Asia Pacific were partially offset by a decline in EMEA driven by softness across Europe and economic challenges in Russia. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 4.3% on net sales for the Baby & Parenting segment, while the acquisition of Baby Jogger had a favorable impact 10.5% on net sales for the Baby & Parenting segment.

Operating income for 2015 was $55.2 million, or 6.5% of net sales, an increase of $14.6 million, or 36.0%, from $40.6 million, or 5.4% of net sales, for 2014. The 110 basis point increase in operating margin was largely due to contributions from Baby Jogger and new product development, partially offset by increased advertising and promotion in support of innovation and the negative impact of foreign currency. Operating income for 2015 and 2014 includes $10.2 million and $15.0 million, respectively, of costs associated with the Graco harness buckle recall. The segment’s ability to leverage the increase in net sales associated with core growth and the addition of Baby Jogger sales more than offset the increased SG&A costs associated with the Graco harness buckle recall and increase in advertising and promotion, which resulted in SG&A decreasing 100 basis points as a percentage of net sales.

2014 vs. 2013 Business Segment Operating Results

Net sales by segment were as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table sets forth an analysis of changes in net sales in each segment for 2014 as compared to 2013:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 40
Operating income (loss) by segment was as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)For 2014, includes $4.2 million of acquisition and integration costs associated with the Ignite and bubba acquisitions. 

(3)For 2014, includes $1.7 million of organizational change implementation and restructuring-related costs associated with Project Renewal. 

(4)For 2014, includes $0.4 million of organizational change implementation and restructuring-related costs associated with Project Renewal. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Writing

Net sales for 2014 were $1,708.9 million, an increase of $55.3 million, or 3.3%, from $1,653.6 million for 2013. Core sales increased 7.8%, driven by strong innovation, positive pricing and advertising and merchandising support. Cores sales grew across all regions and was led by Latin America with strong double-digit growth as a result of pricing and volume growth. Core sales growth in Venezuela contributed 250 basis points to Writing core sales growth in 2014. North America core sales grew mid-single digits as a result of increased advertising and strong Back-To-School growth. EMEA generated low-single-digit core sales growth despite the challenging economic environment and product exits in Fine Writing. Asia Pacific core sales grew low single digits due to pricing and growth in China and Southeast Asia. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 4.5% on net sales.

Operating income for 2014 was $416.6 million, or 24.4% of net sales, an increase of $34.4 million, or 9.0%, from $382.2 million or 23.1% of net sales, for 2013. The 130 basis point increase in operating margin is primarily attributable to pricing, mix, strong productivity and overhead cost management, partially offset by the increased cost of products sold attributable to the devaluation of the Venezuelan Bolivar and increased advertising. The increase in advertising resulted in SG&A increasing 60 basis points as a percentage of net sales.

Home Solutions

Net sales for 2014 were $1,575.4 million, an increase of $15.1 million, or 1.0%, from $1,560.3 million for 2013. Core sales decreased 2.5% primarily due to deemphasizing certain lower margin Rubbermaid product lines. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 0.6% on net sales, while the impact of the Ignite and bubba acquisitions had a positive impact of 4.1% on net sales. 

Operating income for 2014 was $196.0 million, or 12.4% of net sales, a decrease of $17.1 million, or 8.0%, from $213.1 million, or 13.7% of net sales, for 2013. The 130 basis point operating margin decline reflects increased advertising, the effects of input cost inflation and the deleveraging effect on operating margins of lower sales volumes, partially offset by pricing, productivity and overhead cost management. The more efficient management of overhead costs was more than offset by the deleveraging effect, acquisition and integration costs, and increased advertising, resulting in SG&A increasing 110 basis points as a percentage of net sales.

Tools

Net sales for 2014 were $852.2 million, an increase of $34.3 million, or 4.2%, from $817.9 million for 2013. Core sales increased 6.3%. Cores sales grew across all regions led by double-digit core sales growth in Latin America related to strong innovation, new distribution and pricing. The Tools segment generated mid-single-digit core sales growth in North America, as strong volume growth on Lenox® was partially offset by the impact of a slower than expected transition of an Irwin distribution center in 2014. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 2.1% on net sales.

 41
Operating income for 2014 was $94.6 million, or 11.1% of net sales, an increase of $26.3 million, or 38.5%, from $68.3 million, or 8.4% of net sales, for 2013. The 270 basis point increase in operating margin is primarily attributable to greater operating leverage from the strong sales growth, gross margin expansion behind improved mix, Project Renewal savings, significant brand support in 2013 in Brazil for product launches and a reduction in advertising in North America versus last year. The operating leverage, Project Renewal savings and reduced brand support in Brazil and North America contributed to SG&A decreasing 270 basis points as a percentage of net sales.

Commercial Products

Net sales for 2014 were $837.1 million, an increase of $51.2 million, or 6.5%, from $785.9 million for 2013. Core sales increased 7.2%, primarily driven by innovation, pricing, new distribution in Brazil and China and volume growth in all regions. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 0.7% on net sales.

Operating income for 2014 was $101.3 million, or 12.1% of net sales, an increase of $18.8 million, or 22.8%, from $82.5 million, or 10.5% of net sales, for 2013. The 160 basis point increase in operating margin reflects the benefits of improved operating leverage, pricing, mix and strong productivity, partially offset by input cost inflation and increased advertising. The improved operating leverage contributed to SG&A declining 90 basis points as a percentage of net sales. 

Baby & Parenting

Net sales for 2014 were $753.4 million, a decrease of $35.9 million, or 4.5%, from $789.3 million for 2013. Core sales decreased 4.0%, primarily attributable to planned geographic exits in EMEA, difficult market conditions in Eastern Europe, competitive pressures in Japan and the negative impact of the Graco harness buckle recall in the U.S. Foreign currency had an unfavorable impact of 1.1% on net sales, while the acquisition of Baby Jogger had a positive effect of 0.6% on net sales.

Operating income for 2014 was $40.6 million, or 5.4% of net sales, a decrease of $50.6 million, or 55.5%, from $91.2 million, or 11.6% of net sales, for 2013. The 620 basis point decrease in operating margin is largely attributable to the $15.0 million of costs associated with the recall, geographic mix, transactional foreign currency, increased advertising and promotion in North America and the deleveraging impact of lower sales, partially offset by pricing. The deleveraging impact of lower sales, increased advertising, acquisition and integration costs and SG&A costs associated with administering and supporting the recall contributed to SG&A increasing 470 basis points as a percentage of net sales.

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

The Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Form 10-K contains non-GAAP financial measures. The Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures in explaining its results and in its internal evaluation and management of its businesses. The Company’s management believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful since these measures (a) permit users of the financial information to view the Company’s performance using the same tools that management uses to evaluate the Company’s past performance, reportable business segments and prospects for future performance and (b) determine certain elements of management’s incentive compensation.

The Company’s management believes that core sales is useful because it reflects the performance of the ongoing core business by excluding the effects of foreign currency, acquisitions and planned and completed divestitures from changes in reported sales. Core sales is determined by applying a fixed exchange rate, calculated as the 12-month average in the prior year, to the current and prior year local currency sales amounts (excluding sales in the current year associated with acquisitions completed in the preceding twelve months and sales associated with planned and completed divestitures), with the difference equal to changes in core sales, and the difference between the change in reported sales and the change in total constant-currency sales, calculated using the 12-month average exchange rate in the prior year, being attributable to currency. The Company uses core sales as one of the three performance criteria in its management cash bonus plan and performance-based equity compensation program.

While the Company believes that non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating performance, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not as a substitute for or superior to the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similar measures presented by other companies.

 42
The following table provides a reconciliation of changes in core sales to changes in reported net sales by geographic region:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Reconciliations of changes in core sales to changes in reported net sales on a consolidated basis and by segment are provided earlier in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flows 

Cash and cash equivalents increased (decreased) as follows for the years ended December 31, (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In the cash flow statement, the changes in operating assets and liabilities are presented excluding the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the effects of acquisitions, divestitures and reclassifications of assets and liabilities to held for sale. Accordingly, the amounts in the cash flow statement differ from changes in the operating assets and liabilities that are presented in the balance sheets.

Sources

Historically, the Company’s primary sources of liquidity and capital resources have included cash provided by operations, proceeds from divestitures, issuance of debt and use of available borrowing facilities.

Cash provided by operating activities for 2015 was $565.8 million compared to $634.1 million for 2014. The decrease in operating cash flow was primarily due to the impact of the following items:

•a $70.0 million voluntary contribution to the Company’s primary U.S. pension plan during 2015, which is included in accrued liabilities and other in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows;

•a $69.6 million year-over-year increase in cash used to build inventories in 2015 compared to 2014, partially attributable to inventory builds in 2015 to support new product launches;

•a $45.9 million year-over-year increase in project-related costs associated with Project Renewal and advisory costs for process transformation and optimization, including advisory and consulting costs and personnel costs associated with employees dedicated to Project Renewal initiatives;

•a $67.0 million year-over-year decrease in cash provided by accounts payable, primarily attributable to the timing and management of purchases and payments;

 43
partially offset by:

•a $107.1 million year-over-year decrease in cash used for increases in accounts receivable due to the timing of sales in the fourth quarter of 2015 compared to the fourth quarter of 2014; and

•a $60.6 million increase in the Company’s income tax liability during 2015, which is included in accrued liabilities and other in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, primarily associated with an estimated $60.0 million income tax payment due in the first quarter of 2016 associated with the gain realized on the sale of the Endicia business. 

Cash provided by operating activities for 2014 was $634.1 million compared to $605.2 million for 2013. The increase in operating cash flow was primarily due to the impact of the following items:

•a $100.0 million contribution to the Company’s primary U.S. pension plan made in 2013;

•a $33.4 million year-over-year decrease in cash used to build inventories in 2014 compared to 2013, partially attributable to the higher inventory builds in 2013 to support back-half 2013 promotions;

•a $28.3 million year-over-year increase in cash provided by accounts payable primarily attributable to the later timing of purchases in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013; and

•a $21.5 million year-over-year decline in cash paid for income taxes; 

partially offset by:

•a $121.9 million year-over-year increase in cash used for accounts receivable due to the later timing of sales in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013; 

•a $19.1 million year-over-year increase in organizational change implementation and restructuring-related costs incurred in connection with Project Renewal and advisory costs for process transformation and optimization initiatives; and

•$15.0 million of costs in 2014 associated with the harness buckle recall. 

During 2015, the Company had net payments of $57.0 million related to its short-term borrowing arrangements compared to receiving net proceeds of $217.3 million related to short-term borrowing arrangements in 2014. The net payments of $57.0 million related to short-term borrowing arrangements in 2015 primarily relates to $50.3 million of issuance costs incurred in connection with a $400 million bridge facility the Company entered into in advance of the Elmer’s acquisition (the “Elmer’s Bridge Facility”), which has since been terminated, and a $10.5 billion bridge facility (the “Jarden Bridge Facility”) contemplated by the commitment letter that the Company entered into with the lender (the “Commitment Letter”) in connection with the Proposed Merger Transactions. The Company’s short-term borrowings, which include commercial paper and the receivables facility, were $382.9 million at December 31, 2015 compared to $390.7 million at December 31, 2014. During 2014, the Company received net proceeds of $217.3 million on its short-term borrowing arrangements compared to net payments of $35.8 million related to short-term borrowing arrangements in 2013. The Company’s short-term borrowings, which include commercial paper and the receivables facility, were $390.7 million at December 31, 2014 compared to $174.0 million at December 31, 2013. The increase in short-term borrowings in 2014 is primarily due to borrowings to fund the Company’s ongoing share repurchase program and to finance acquisitions. Short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2013 were used to fund the Company’s $350.0 million accelerated stock buyback program initiated in October 2013. 

In October 2015, the Company completed the offering and sale of $600.0 million of medium-term notes, consisting of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.15% notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) and $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of 3.90% notes due 2025 (the “2025 Notes”). The aggregate net proceeds from the issuance of the medium-term notes were $594.5 million, which were used for the acquisition of Elmer’s and for general corporate purposes. In November 2014, the Company completed the offering and sale of $850.0 million of medium-term notes, consisting of $350.0 million principal amount of 2.875% notes due 2019 (the “2019 Notes”) and $500.0 million principal amount of 4.0% notes due 2024 (the “2024 Notes”). The aggregate net proceeds were $841.8 million and were used to repay $439.4 million principal amount of medium-term notes and to repay short-term borrowings incurred in connection with the acquisitions of Ignite, bubba and Baby Jogger. 

During 2015, the Company sold its Endicia business for aggregate net proceeds of $208.7 million. The Company recognized a pretax gain of $154.2 million, with related tax expense of $58.6 million. The related tax expense primarily represents an income tax liability which is expected to be paid and included as a use of cash in the Company’s cash flow from operating activities in the first quarter of 2016.

During 2013, the Company sold its Hardware and Teach Platform businesses for aggregate net proceeds of $180.9 million. The proceeds are net of $3.9 million of transaction expenses and $2.6 million of cash included in the assets sold. In addition, cash provided by operating activities in 2013 includes cash collected on accounts receivable, net of customer-related liabilities, related 

 44
to the Hardware business, which were retained by the Company in the sale of the Hardware business and totaled approximately $27.0 million of net assets.

During 2015, the Company received $24.3 million in connection with the exercise of employee stock options, which compares to $76.6 million received in 2014 and $81.0 million received in 2013. During 2015, the Company used $30.0 million to repurchase its common stock to satisfy employees’ tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock units, which compares to $15.9 million and $29.2 million used in 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Uses

Historically, the Company’s primary uses of liquidity and capital resources have included capital expenditures, payments on debt, dividend payments, share repurchases and acquisitions.

Capital expenditures were $211.4 million, $161.9 million and $138.2 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Capital expenditures incurred for capitalized software projects included in capital expenditures were $38.8 million, $20.8 million and $32.4 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The increase in capital expenditures in 2015 was largely attributable to purchases of equipment in the U.S. to support the consolidation of facilities in the Commercial Products segment, investments in assets to improve the Company’s resin manufacturing network in the Home Solutions and Commercial Products segments, the purchase of the Company’s new headquarters building, sales and marketing-related software initiatives and the implementation of SAP in Asia Pacific.

During 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of Elmer’s. The purchase price of $570.1 million is net of $16.8 million of cash acquired and is subject to customary working capital adjustments and was paid from proceeds received from the issuance of the 2018 Notes and 2025 Notes.

During 2014, the Company completed the acquisitions of Ignite and Baby Jogger and acquired the assets of bubba. The total net purchase price for these three businesses in 2014 was $602.3 million, which was paid from proceeds received from the issuance of the 2019 Notes and 2024 Notes and short-term borrowings. 

During 2015, the Company deconsolidated its Venezuelan operations, which resulted in a $97.5 million reduction in cash and cash equivalents. 

During 2014, the Company used aggregate net proceeds of $841.8 million from the issuance of the 2019 Notes and 2024 Notes and short-term borrowings to redeem $168.7 million of the $550.0 million outstanding 4.7% medium-term notes due 2020, redeem the $250.0 million of outstanding 2.0% medium-term notes due 2015, redeem the $20.7 million of outstanding 10.6% medium-term notes due 2019, finance acquisitions and for general corporate purposes.

Aggregate dividends paid were $206.3 million, $182.5 million and $174.1 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In February 2015, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a 12% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.17 per share to $0.19 per share, effective with the quarterly dividend paid in March 2015. The Company’s Board of Directors previously approved a 13.3% increase in the Company’s quarterly dividend from $0.15 per share to $0.17 per share, effective with the quarterly dividend paid in June 2014.

In August 2011, the Company announced a $300.0 million share repurchase program (the “SRP”). The SRP was authorized to run for a period of three years ending in August 2014. In 2014, the SRP was expanded and extended to provide for over $750.0 million of additional repurchases of the Company’s outstanding shares from February 2014 through December 2017. During 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company repurchased and retired 4.5 million, 11.3 million and 4.7 million shares, respectively, pursuant to the SRP for $180.4 million, $363.2 million and $119.5 million, respectively.

In October 2013, the Company entered into agreements with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (“Goldman Sachs”) to effect an accelerated stock buyback (the “ASB”) of the Company’s common stock. Under the ASB, the Company paid Goldman Sachs an initial purchase price of $350.0 million, and Goldman Sachs delivered to the Company 9.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock. In March 2014, the ASB was completed and Goldman Sachs delivered 2.0 million shares of the Company’s common stock to the Company. Such shares were immediately retired. The Company used cash on hand and short-term borrowings to fund the initial purchase price. 

Cash used for restructuring activities was $51.5 million, $71.8 million and $74.9 million for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and is included in the cash provided by operating activities. These payments relate primarily to employee severance, termination benefits and relocation costs and vacant facility lease payments.

 45
The Company made contributions of $103.2 million, $34.9 million and $141.6 million to its defined benefit plans for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The contributions are included in cash provided by operating activities. 

Cash Conversion Cycle

The Company defines its cash conversion cycle as the sum of inventory and accounts receivable days outstanding (based on cost of products sold and net sales, respectively, for the most recent three-month period, including discontinued operations) minus accounts payable days outstanding (based on cost of products sold for the most recent three-month period, including discontinued operations) at the end of the year. The following table depicts the Company’s cash conversion cycle at December 31, (in number of days):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The increase in the cash conversion cycle from 2015 to 2014 is primarily due to the increase in inventory days, driven by higher inventory balances at December 31, 2015 as compared to December 31, 2014, largely attributable to inventory builds for new product launches. The decrease in the cash conversion cycle from 2013 to 2014 is primarily due to the increase in accounts payable days as a result of increased purchases towards the end of 2014 as compared to 2013, partially offset by the increase in accounts receivable days attributable to the timing of sales in the fourth quarter of 2014 compared to the fourth quarter of 2013. The increase in accounts payable days in 2015 and 2014 compared to 2013 is attributable to the timing and management of purchases and payments.

The acquisition of Elmer’s and divestiture of Endicia had the effect of increasing the cash conversion cycle by approximately 1 day in 2015 due to the timing of the transactions in the fourth quarter of 2015. The bubba and Baby Jogger acquisitions in 2014 had the effect of increasing the cash conversion cycle by approximately 1 day in 2014 compared to 2013 since the bubba and Baby Jogger results of operations were not included in the Company’s results of operations for the entire fourth quarter of 2014. The Company’s cash conversion cycle is impacted by the seasonality of its businesses and generally tends to be longer in the first and second quarters, based on historical trends, due to inventory build-ups early in the year for seasonal sales activity and credit terms provided to customers. 

Financial Position

The Company is committed to maintaining a strong financial position through maintaining sufficient levels of available liquidity, managing working capital and monitoring the Company’s overall capitalization.

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company has from time to time refinanced, redeemed or repurchased its debt and taken other steps to reduce its debt or lease obligations or otherwise improve its overall financial position and balance sheet. Going forward, depending on market conditions, its cash positions and other considerations, the Company may continue to take such actions.

 46
Borrowing Arrangements

In December 2011, the Company entered into a five-year credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks. As extended, the Credit Agreement provided for an unsecured syndicated revolving credit facility maturing in December 2019, and an aggregate commitment at any time outstanding of up to $800.0 million. In January 2016, the Company entered into a five-year revolving credit agreement (the “Revolving Credit Agreement”) with a syndicate of banks. The Revolving Credit Agreement amends and restates in its entirety the Credit Agreement. The Revolving Credit Agreement provides for an unsecured syndicated revolving credit facility with a maturity date of January 26, 2021, with aggregate commitments of $1.25 billion. Borrowing availability under the Credit Agreement and the Revolving Credit Agreement as successor to the Credit Agreement is referred to as the “Facility.” The Company may from time to time request increases in the aggregate commitments to up to $1.75 billion upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. The Company may request extensions of the maturity date of the Facility (subject to lender approval) for additional one-year periods. Borrowings under the Facility may be used for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions. The Facility provides the committed backup liquidity for the issuance of commercial paper. Accordingly, commercial paper may be issued only up to the amount available for borrowing under the Facility. The Facility also provides for the issuance of up to $100.0 million of letters of credit, so long as there is a sufficient amount available for borrowing under the Facility. As of December 31 2015, there were no borrowings or standby letters of credit issued or outstanding under the Facility, and the Company did not have any commercial paper obligations outstanding, resulting in $800.0 million of borrowing capacity available under the Facility as of December 31, 2015.

In addition to the committed portion of the Facility, the Revolving Credit Agreement provides for extensions of competitive bid loans from one or more lenders (in the lenders’ discretion) of up to $500.0 million, which are not a utilization of the amount available for borrowing under the Facility. 

As extended in August 2015, the Company’s receivables facility provides for available borrowings up to $400.0 million and expires in August 2016. As of December 31, 2015, aggregate borrowings of $350.0 million were outstanding under the receivables facility at a weighted-average interest rate of 1.1%.

The following table presents the maximum and average daily borrowings outstanding under the Company’s short-term borrowing arrangements during the years ended December 31, (in millions):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In October 2015, the Company entered into the Elmer’s Bridge Facility, which provided for maximum borrowings of $400.0 million and was to be used to finance the purchase price of Elmer’s. The Elmer’s Bridge Facility was terminated upon the Company’s issuance of the 2018 Notes and 2025 Notes in October 2015. The Company incurred $2.5 million of debt issuance costs in October 2015 in connection with entering into the Elmer’s Bridge Facility, and the amortization of the $2.5 million of debt issuance costs is included in interest expense in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2015.

In connection with the Proposed Merger Transactions, the Company entered into a Commitment Letter, pursuant to which the lender committed to provide the Jarden Bridge Facility. The availability under the Jarden Bridge Facility is subject to reduction in equivalent amounts upon the completion of any issuance of debt securities by the Company and upon other specified events, as provided in the Commitment Letter. The availability under the Commitment Letter and Jarden Bridge Facility was reduced to $9.0 billion in January 2016 upon the Company entering into the term loan credit agreement, as further described below. The Company expects to replace all or a portion of the Jarden Bridge Facility with permanent financing prior to closing the acquisition. If entered into, borrowings under the Jarden Bridge Facility would bear interest, at the Company’s election, at (i) the eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin, or (ii) the base rate plus an applicable margin. The obligation of the lender to provide this debt financing is subject to a number of customary conditions, including execution and delivery of certain definitive documentation. The Company incurred $47.7 million of debt issuance costs in December 2015 in connection with entering into the Commitment Letter, which are included in prepaid expenses and other at December 31, 2015.

In January 2016, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the “Term Loan Credit Agreement”) for the $1.5 billion senior unsecured term loan facility with a syndicate of banks. The proceeds from borrowings under the Term Loan Credit Agreement will be used to pay a portion of the cash consideration in connection with the Proposed Merger Transactions and pay some or all of the related fees and expenses. Borrowings under the Term Loan Credit Agreement will be funded upon the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the consummation of the Jarden transaction, but in no event prior to March 31, 2016. The Term Loan 

 47
Credit Agreement provides for a maturity date of three years from the closing date of the Jarden transaction and requires the Company to repay 5% of the initial borrowings in each of the first and second years after the closing of the Jarden transaction and the remaining 90% of the initial borrowings during the third year after the closing of the Jarden transaction. At the Company’s election, borrowings under the Term Loan Credit Agreement will bear interest either at (i) the eurodollar rate plus an applicable margin, or (ii) the base rate plus an applicable margin. The Term Loan Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default. The covenants set forth in the Term Loan Credit Agreement include certain affirmative and negative operational and financial covenants, including, among other things, a requirement that the Company maintain certain interest coverage and total indebtedness to total capital ratios, as defined in the Term Loan Credit Agreement. In addition, the Term Loan Credit Agreement provides for certain events of default, the occurrence of which could result in the acceleration of the Company’s obligations under the Term Loan Credit Agreement.

The indentures governing the Company’s medium-term notes contain usual and customary nonfinancial covenants. The Company’s borrowing arrangements other than the medium-term notes contain usual and customary nonfinancial covenants and certain financial covenants, including minimum interest coverage and maximum debt-to-total-capitalization ratios. As defined by the agreements governing these other borrowing arrangements, minimum interest coverage ratio is computed as adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) divided by adjusted interest expense for the four most recent quarterly periods. Generally, maximum debt-to-total-capitalization is calculated as the sum of short-term and long-term debt divided by the sum of (i) total debt, (ii) total stockholders’ equity, (iii) $750.0 million related to impairment charges incurred by the Company (amended under the Revolving Credit Agreement to add an additional $250.0 million of charges incurred after January 1, 2015) and (iv) up to $600.0 million related to the component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for all foreign currency translation and the cumulative foreign exchange gains (losses) incurred since January 1, 2012 arising from (i) the appreciation or depreciation of the Venezuelan Bolivar relative to the U.S. Dollar due to the highly inflationary accounting for Venezuela and (ii) the cumulative gains or losses resulting from the deconsolidation of a foreign entity (amended under the Revolving Credit Agreement to up to $1.0 billion of similar items, as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement). As of December 31, 2015, the Company had complied with all covenants under the indentures and its other borrowing arrangements, and the Company could access the full borrowing capacity available under the Facility and receivables facility and utilize the $850.0 million of availability at December 31, 2015 to fund operating activities, working capital requirements, capital expenditures and/or acquisitions without exceeding the debt-to-total-capitalization limit in its financial covenants. A failure to maintain the financial covenants would impair the Company’s ability to borrow under the Facility and the receivables facility and may result in the acceleration of the repayment of certain indebtedness.

Interest Rate Hedging Activities

The Company uses derivatives to hedge interest rates on anticipated issuances of medium-term notes occurring within one year or less of the inception date of the derivative, and the Company uses these instruments to reduce the volatility in future interest payments that would be made pursuant to the anticipated issuances of medium-term notes. These derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges. The changes in fair values of these instruments are recognized in other comprehensive income (loss), and after the medium-term notes are issued and the derivative instruments are settled, the amount in other comprehensive income (loss) is amortized to interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations over the term of the related medium-term notes. The cash paid or received from the settlement of forward-starting interest rate swaps is included in cash flows from operating activities.

During December 2015 and January 2016, the Company entered into forward-starting interest rate swaps with aggregate notional amounts of $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, to hedge the benchmark interest rate underlying anticipated interest payments on medium-term notes the Company expects to issue to finance the Jarden transaction (the “Swaps”). The Swaps are designated as hedges of expected interest payments for periods ranging from 5 to 30 years. The Company’s net position with respect to the Swaps fluctuates based on changes in benchmark interest rates, and declines in the benchmark interest rates after the date the Company enters into the Swaps generally results in amounts the Company is required to pay the counterparties to settle such Swaps. If benchmark interest rates do not increase from their current levels, the Company would be required to pay the counterparties for the value of the Swaps since benchmark interest rates have declined since the Company entered into the Swaps, and such amounts could be significant. The Company classifies cash inflows and outflows associated with forward-starting interest rate swaps in cash flows from operating activities. 

Debt

The Company has varying needs for short-term working capital financing as a result of the seasonal nature of its business. The volume and timing of production impacts the Company’s cash flows and has historically involved increased production in the first quarter of the year to meet increased customer demand through the remainder of the year. Working capital fluctuations have historically been financed through short-term financing arrangements, such as commercial paper or borrowings under the Facility or receivables facility.

 48
Total debt was $3.1 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, an increase of $594.5 million, which is primarily attributable to the October 2015 issuance of the 2018 Notes and 2025 Notes. The proceeds from the 2018 Notes and 2025 Notes were used to finance the Elmer’s acquisition. 

As of December 31, 2015, the current portion of long-term debt and short-term debt totaled $388.8 million, including $350.0 million of borrowings under the receivables facility. 

 The following table presents the average outstanding debt and weighted-average interest rates for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(1) The average interest rate includes the impacts of fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps. 

The Company’s floating-rate debt, which includes medium-term notes that are subject to fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps, was 31.7% and 39.3% of total debt as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

See Footnote 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.

Pension and Other Post-retirement Plan Obligations

The Company has adopted and sponsors pension plans in the U.S. and in various other countries. The Company’s ongoing funding requirements for its pension plans are largely dependent on the value of each of the plan’s assets and the investment returns realized on plan assets, as well as prevailing market rates of interest. As a result, future increases or decreases in pension liabilities and required cash contributions are highly dependent on changes in interest rates, the actual return on plan assets and various estimates regarding the timing and amount of future benefit payments. For example, the Company’s $1.6 billion of projected benefit obligations of its defined benefit plans as of December 31, 2015 would increase approximately $53.5 million due to a 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate. In 2015, the projected benefit obligations of the Company’s primary U.S. defined benefit plan decreased $30.0 million due to a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate and and decreased $17.6 million due to using updated mortality assumptions. In 2014, the projected benefit obligations of the Company’s U.S. defined benefit plans increased $77.3 million due to a 50 basis point decrease in the discount rate and and increased $111.9 million due to using updated mortality assumptions. 

The Company made voluntary cash contributions of $70.0 million and $100.0 million to its primary U.S. defined benefit pension plan during 2015 and 2013, respectively, to improve the overall funded status of the plan and offset the impacts of the adoption of new mortality tables to measure U.S. plan liabilities. The significant contributions the Company made in 2015 and 2013 were not material to the Company’s pretax income for 2015 and 2013, considering the expected return on plan assets of 7.25% and 7.5% for 2015 and 2013, respectively, and the Company’s average borrowing rate of 2.8% and 3.0%, respectively. 

In September 2014, the Company commenced an offer to approximately 5,700 former employees who have deferred vested benefits under the Company’s tax-qualified U.S. pension plan, and in September 2015, the Company initiated a similar offer to 3,300 former employees. These former employees had the opportunity to make a one-time election to receive a lump-sum distribution of the present value of their benefits by the end of 2014 or 2015, as applicable. The benefit obligations associated with the 2014 and 2015 offers were approximately $200 million and $120 million, respectively. Cash payments of $98.6 million and $70.6 million were made from the pension plan assets in December 2014 and December 2015, respectively, to those electing the lump-sum distribution. The lump sum payment offers did not impact the Company’s cash flow. Based on the lump-sum distributions that were paid, the Company incurred non-cash settlement charges of $65.4 million and $52.1 million in 2014 and 2015, respectively. 

The Company determines its plan asset investment mix, in part, on the duration of each plan’s liabilities. To the extent each plan’s assets decline in value or do not generate the returns expected by the Company or to the extent the pension liabilities increase due to declines in interest rates or otherwise, the Company may be required to make contributions to the pension plans to ensure the pension obligations are adequately funded as required by law or mandate.

Dividends

In February 2015, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a 12% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.17 per share to $0.19 per share, effective with the quarterly dividend paid in March 2015. The Company’s Board of Directors previously approved a 13% increase in the quarterly dividend from $0.15 per share to $0.17 per share, effective with the quarterly dividend paid in June 2014. The Company intends to maintain dividends at a level such that operating cash flows can be used to fund growth initiatives, acquisitions and restructuring activities. The payment of dividends to holders of the Company’s common stock remains 

 49
at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including the Company’s financial condition, earnings, legal requirements, payout ratio and other factors the Board of Directors deems relevant.

Share Repurchase Program

Under the SRP, the Company may repurchase its own shares of common stock through a combination of 10b5-1 automatic trading plans, discretionary market purchases or in privately negotiated transactions. As expanded and extended in November 2014, the Company may repurchase a total of up to $1.1 billion of its own stock through the end of 2017 pursuant to the SRP. During 2015, the Company repurchased 4.5 million shares pursuant to the SRP for $180.4 million, and such shares were immediately retired. From the commencement of the SRP in August 2011 through December 31, 2015, the Company has repurchased and retired a total of 28.9 million shares for $800.7 million, and the Company has $255.9 million of authorized repurchases remaining under the SRP as of December 31, 2015. The repurchase of additional shares will depend upon many factors, including the Company’s financial condition, liquidity and legal requirements. Although the SRP authorizes the Company to repurchase shares through the end of 2017, the Company may execute such repurchases at any time and from time to time and may accelerate and complete authorized repurchases under the SRP sooner than the scheduled expiration.

Accelerated Share Repurchase Plan

In October 2013, the Company entered into agreements with Goldman, Sachs & Co. (“Goldman Sachs”) to effect an accelerated stock buyback (the “ASB”) of the Company’s common stock. Under the ASB, the Company paid Goldman Sachs an initial purchase price of $350.0 million, and Goldman Sachs delivered to the Company 9.4 million shares of the Company’s common stock based on an initial per share amount of $29.69. The number of shares that the Company ultimately purchased under the ASB was determined based on the average of the daily volume-weighted average share prices of the Company’s common stock over the course of a calculation period. In March 2014, the ASB was completed and Goldman Sachs delivered 2.0 million shares of the Company’s common stock to the Company. Such shares were immediately retired. 

Credit Ratings

The Company’s credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. The Company’s current senior and short-term debt credit ratings from three credit rating agencies are listed below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Outlook

The Company believes that available cash and cash equivalents, cash flows generated from future operations, access to capital markets, and availability under the Facility and receivables facility will be adequate to support the cash needs of existing businesses. The Company plans to use available cash, borrowing capacity, cash flows from future operations and alternative financing arrangements to repay debt maturities as they come due, including short-term debt of $382.9 million, primarily representing borrowings under the receivables facility.

Newell Rubbermaid intends to finance the cash requirements for the Proposed Merger Transactions and refinance $4.5 billion of outstanding Jarden debt to complete the Proposed Merger Transactions with a combination of the following:

•up to approximately $1.5 billion from borrowings under the Term Loan Credit Agreement;

•up to approximately $8.6 billion newly issued Newell Rubbermaid medium-term notes;

•available balance sheet cash and the net cash proceeds, if any, from the intended sale of the Décor business; and

•to the extent necessary, borrowings under the Jarden Bridge Facility or from borrowings under other permanent or alternative financing.

In addition, Newell Rubbermaid intends to assume two tranches of Jarden’s outstanding debt with principal amounts of $300 million and €300 million. Upon completion of the Jarden transaction, Newell Brands’ total indebtedness is estimated to be approximately $14 billion.

 50
Resolution of Income Tax Contingencies 

The Company recorded $19.0 million, $15.5 million and $7.9 million in net income tax benefits in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, as a result of the favorable resolution of certain tax matters with taxing authorities and the expiration of the statute of limitations on certain tax matters. These benefits are reflected in the Company’s 2015, 2014 and 2013 Consolidated Statements of Operations. The ultimate resolution of outstanding tax matters may be different from that reflected in the historical income tax provisions and accruals, which may adversely impact future operating results and cash flows. 

Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 

The Company has outstanding debt obligations maturing at various dates through 2028. Certain other items, such as purchase commitments and other executory contracts, are not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements but are required to be disclosed. Examples of items not recognized as liabilities in the Company’s consolidated financial statements are commitments to purchase raw materials or inventory that has not yet been received as of December 31, 2015, and future minimum lease payments for the use of property and equipment under operating lease agreements. 

The following table summarizes the effect that lease and other material contractual obligations is expected to have on the Company’s cash flow in the indicated period. In addition, the table reflects the timing of principal and interest payments on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2015. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(2)Amounts represent estimated interest payable on borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2015, excluding the impact of interest rate swaps that adjust the fixed rate to a floating rate for $596.0 million of medium-term notes. Interest on floating-rate debt was estimated using the rate in effect as of December 31, 2015. For further information, see Footnote 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(3)Amounts represent contractual minimum lease obligations on operating leases as of December 31, 2015. For further information relating to these obligations, see Footnote 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

(4)Primarily consists of purchase commitments entered into as of December 31, 2015, for finished goods, raw materials, components and services pursuant to legally enforceable and binding obligations, which include all significant terms. 

(5)Total does not include contractual obligations reported on the December 31, 2015 balance sheet as current liabilities, except for current portion of long-term debt, short-term debt and accrued interest. 

The Company also has liabilities for uncertain tax positions and unrecognized tax benefits. The Company is under audit from time-to-time by the IRS and other taxing authorities, and it is possible that the amount of the liability for uncertain tax positions and unrecognized tax benefits could change in the coming year. While it is possible that one or more of these examinations may be resolved in the next year, the Company is not able to reasonably estimate the timing or the amount by which the liability will be settled over time; therefore, the $162.9 million in unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2015 is excluded from the preceding table. See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 

Additionally, the Company has obligations with respect to its pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, which are excluded from the preceding table. The timing and amounts of the funding requirements are uncertain because they are dependent on interest rates and actual returns on plan assets, among other factors. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had liabilities, net of plan assets, of $371.9 million related to its unfunded and underfunded pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

As of December 31, 2015, the Company had $32.9 million in standby letters of credit primarily related to the Company’s self-insurance programs, including workers’ compensation, product liability and medical. See Footnote 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

 51
The Company has entered into the Proposed Merger Transactions which the Company estimates will require $5.5 billion of cash payments to Jarden stockholders and repayment of $4.5 billion of outstanding Jarden debt. The Company anticipates using borrowings from newly issued debt securities, the Term Loan Credit Agreement and, if necessary, the Jarden Bridge Facility, to fund these commitments.

Based on the terms of the Proposed Merger Transactions, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including termination by Newell Rubbermaid or Jarden to enter into a definitive agreement for a proposal that constitutes a superior proposal, Newell Rubbermaid or Jarden, as applicable, will be required to pay the other a cash termination fee equal to $385 million. In addition, if the Merger Agreement is terminated by either party due to a failure to obtain the applicable necessary stockholder approval, Newell Rubbermaid or Jarden, as applicable, will be required to reimburse the other for up to $100 million for fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Proposed Merger Transactions. Newell Rubbermaid could also be required to pay a termination fee of $900 million to Jarden and terminate the Merger Agreement under certain conditions if it is unable to obtain financing contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including the Jarden Bridge Facility, and is otherwise unable to secure alternative investment grade financing.

As of December 31, 2015, the Company did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K.

Critical Accounting Policies

The Company’s accounting policies are more fully described in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As disclosed in that footnote, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying footnotes. Future events and their effects cannot be determined with absolute certainty. Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following sections describe the Company’s critical accounting policies. 

Sales Recognition 

Sales of merchandise and freight billed to customers are recognized when title passes and all substantial risks of ownership transfer, which generally occurs either upon shipment or upon delivery based upon contractual terms. Sales are net of provisions for cash discounts, returns, customer discounts (such as volume or trade discounts), cooperative advertising and other sales-related discounts. 

Customer Programs 

The Company participates in various programs and arrangements with customers designed to increase the sale of products by these customers. Among the programs negotiated are arrangements under which allowances are earned by customers for attaining agreed-upon sales levels or for participating in specific marketing programs. Coupon programs are also developed on a customer- and territory-specific basis with the intent of increasing sales by all customers. The cost of all of these various programs, included as a reduction in net sales, totaled $659.3 million, $594.2 million and $527.8 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Under customer programs and arrangements that require sales incentives to be paid in advance, the Company amortizes the amount paid over the period of benefit or contractual sales volume. When incentives are paid in arrears, the Company accrues the estimated amount to be paid based on the program’s contractual terms, expected customer performance and/or estimated sales volume. These estimates are determined using historical customer experience and other factors, which sometimes require significant judgment. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Company had accrued $294.9 million and $288.3 million, respectively, for customer programs, and such amounts are included in accrued liabilities and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Due to the length of time necessary to obtain relevant data from customers, among other factors, actual amounts paid can differ from these estimates. 

Recovery of Accounts Receivable 

The Company evaluates the collectibility of accounts receivable based on a combination of factors. When aware of a specific customer’s inability to meet its financial obligations, such as in the case of bankruptcy filings or deterioration in the customer’s operating results or financial position, the Company records a specific reserve for bad debt to reduce the related receivable to the amount the Company reasonably believes is collectible. The Company also records reserves for bad debt for all other customers based on a variety of factors, including the length of time the receivables are past due and historical collection experience. Accounts are reviewed for potential write-off on a case-by-case basis. Accounts deemed uncollectible are written off, net of expected recoveries. If circumstances related to specific customers change, the Company’s estimates of the recoverability of receivables 

 52
could be further adjusted. The Company’s reserve for uncollectible accounts was $14.6 million and $16.0 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

Inventory Reserves 

The Company reduces its inventory value for estimated obsolete and slow-moving inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Net provisions for excess and obsolete inventories, including shrink reserves, totaled $23.3 million, $24.2 million and $19.6 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and are included in cost of products sold. The Company’s reserve for excess and obsolete inventory and shrink reserves totaled $32.9 million and $32.6 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required.

Business Combinations

The Company allocates purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the Company makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. 

Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer relationships, trade names and trademarks and acquired patents and developed technology; the period of time the Company expects to use the acquired intangible asset; and discount rates. In estimating the future cash flows, the Company considers demand, competition and other economic factors. The Company’s estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates, which could result in impairment charges in the future. Estimates associated with the accounting for business combinations may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which could result in adjustments to the values of tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired or could result in future income or expenses if such changes in estimates are identified beyond one year from the date of acquisition.

The Company considers various factors in determining whether an acquired trademark or trade name has an indefinite life. In assessing whether an acquired trademark or trade name has an indefinite life, the Company considers legal and regulatory provisions that may limit the useful life, customer loyalty, brand strength and positioning, the effects of obsolescence and other economic factors, the Company’s plans for incorporating the trademark or trade name into its brand portfolio and the Company’s historical experience in using and renewing similar assets. The Company considers all other acquired intangible assets definite-lived assets and generally amortizes the assets on a straight-line basis. The Company determines the amortizable life of acquired definite-lived intangible assets based on the number of years over which a significant amount of the discounted cash flows contributes to the estimated fair value of the asset.

The Company accounts for costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company separately from the business combination. A liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured at its fair value in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the liability is incurred. When estimating the costs of exiting facilities, estimates are made regarding future sublease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results. As a result, the Company may be required to revise its estimates which may affect the Company’s results of operations and financial position in the period the revision is made.

Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

Goodwill

The Company performs its annual impairment testing of goodwill at a reporting unit level, and all of the Company’s goodwill is assigned to the Company’s reporting units. Reporting units are generally one level below the operating segment level. The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment testing as of July 1, 2015 for the 14 reporting units that comprise the Company’s five operating segments. Acquired businesses, if any, including goodwill arising from such transactions, are typically integrated into the Company's existing reporting units. Goodwill of $174.6 million associated with the acquisitions of Ignite and the assets of bubba in the second half of 2014 are included in the Beverageware reporting unit, and goodwill of $85.3 million associated with the acquisition of Baby Jogger in the fourth quarter of 2014 has been included in the Baby & Parenting reporting unit. 

As of July 1, 2015, the Company had 14 reporting units with total goodwill of $2.5 billion. Five of the Company’s 14 reporting units accounted for over 72% of the Company’s total goodwill. These five reporting units were as follows: Writing & Creative Expression; Dymo Office; Industrial Products & Services; Commercial Products and Baby & Parenting Essentials. 

 53
The Company conducts its annual test of impairment of goodwill as of the first day of the third quarter because it generally coincides with its annual strategic planning process. The Company also tests for impairment if events and circumstances indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. For example, if macroeconomic factors, such as consumer demand and consumer confidence, deteriorate materially such that the Company's reporting units’ projected sales and operating income decline significantly relative to previous estimates, the Company will perform an interim test to assess whether goodwill is impaired. The Company determined that the operating results of the Company’s Construction Tools & Accessories reporting unit in the back half of 2015 was an interim impairment indicator, primarily resulting from economic conditions in Brazil, and evaluated Construction Tools & Accessories’ goodwill to assess whether it was impaired. Other than the interim impairment evaluation of Construction Tools & Accessories’ goodwill at December 31, 2015, no interim tests of impairment of goodwill were necessary during 2015. 

In the Company’s goodwill impairment testing, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit is greater than its fair value, impairment may be present. Estimates made by management in performing its impairment testing may impact whether or not an impairment charge is necessary and the magnitude of the corresponding impairment charge to the extent one is recorded. The Company uses multiple valuation approaches in its impairment testing, each of which requires estimates to arrive at an estimate of fair value. For the Company's reporting units that are stable businesses and have a history of generating positive operating income and cash flows, the Company relies on a multiple of earnings approach to assess fair value. The material assumptions used to value a reporting unit using this approach are the reporting units’ estimated financial performance for the remainder of the year and the applicable multiple to apply to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). The estimated financial performance for the remainder of the year and/or succeeding year is based on the Company’s internal forecasting process. To determine the EBITDA multiple, the Company obtains information from third parties on EBITDA multiples observed for recent acquisitions and other transactions in the marketplace for comparable businesses. The Company also evaluates the EBITDA multiples of publicly traded companies that are in the same industry and are comparable to each reporting unit and compares the EBITDA multiples of the publicly traded companies to the multiples used by the Company to estimate the fair value of each reporting unit. The Company evaluates the EBITDA multiples used to value the reporting units relative to the Company's market capitalization plus an equity control premium. The equity control premium is defined as the sum of the individual reporting units’ estimated market values compared to the Company's market value, with the sum of the individual values typically being larger than the market value of the Company. The Company considers premiums paid by acquirers of comparable businesses to determine the reasonableness of the implied control premium. 

The EBITDA multiple observed in the marketplace for publicly traded companies that are comparable to the reporting units ranged from 6 to 15. In using the EBITDA multiples, the Company compared the aggregate value of all reporting units to the Company’s total market value to validate the aggregate values of the reporting units resulted in a reasonable implied equity control premium. The Company considers several factors in estimating the EBITDA multiple applicable to each reporting unit, including the reporting unit’s market position, brand awareness, gross and operating income margins, and prospects for growth, among other factors. After adjusting the EBITDA multiples for the reporting units, no potential goodwill impairment was indicated for reporting units for which this approach was used. Furthermore, the Company's equity market value at July 1, 2015 of approximately $11.1 billion was significantly in excess of its book value of stockholders' equity of approximately $1.8 billion. For the impairment test as of July 1, 2015, if each reporting unit’s EBITDA multiple were reduced by 0.5 from the 6 to 15 multiple used for each reporting unit, all reporting units where the EBITDA multiple approach was used to value the reporting unit would have passed step one of the goodwill impairment test. 

The Company relies on a discounted cash flow approach to value reporting units in certain circumstances, such as when the reporting unit is growing at a significantly slower rate than planned, is declining at a significantly faster rate than the overall market, has experienced significant losses, is in a stage of hyper-growth, is executing significant restructuring efforts, or is in a stage of development where it has not yet fully realized the benefits of scale and operating efficiencies. The Company also relies on a discounted cash flow approach when a reporting unit is recently acquired. As of July 1, 2015, the Company used the discounted cash flow approach for the annual impairment test of its Beverageware reporting unit. The material assumptions used to value a reporting unit using the discounted cash flow approach are the future financial performance and cash flows of the reporting unit, the discount rate, long-term sales growth rate, working capital reductions and working capital investments required. Estimates of future financial performance include estimates of future sales growth rates, raw material and sourced product costs, currency fluctuations, and operating efficiencies to be realized. The Company determines a discount rate based on an estimate of a reasonable risk-adjusted return an investor would expect to realize on an investment in the reporting unit. In using the discounted cash flow approach to value the Beverageware reporting unit in 2015, the Company used average compound short-term and long-term sales growth rates of 8% and 3%, respectively, average operating margins generally ranging from 10% to 14%, and a discount rate of 14%. The Company concluded the Beverageware reporting unit passed step 1 of the goodwill impairment test based on the estimated fair value determined using the discounted cash flow approach. 

If the discount rate used to estimate the fair value of the Beverageware reporting unit increased 50 basis points, the Beverageware reporting unit would still have passed step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. 

 54
For reporting units held for sale for which an offer has been received from a prospective buyer, the Company relies on the value offered by the third party for the sale of the reporting unit to estimate the reporting unit’s fair value. In March 2015, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the Endicia business for $215 million, and such value was used as the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value of the Endicia reporting unit, and the Company concluded the Endicia reporting unit passed step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. 

The Company has no reporting units with net assets whose estimated fair values at July 1, 2015 exceeded net assets by less than 10% of the reporting unit’s net assets, with the exception of the Construction Tools & Accessories reporting unit. The estimated fair value of the Construction Tools & Accessories reporting unit using the EBITDA multiple approach exceeded its net assets by 7%, as the Construction Tools & Accessories reporting unit’s EBITDA has been adversely impacted by transactional foreign currency in 2015. As of December 31, 2015, the Company evaluated the Construction Tools & Accessories’ goodwill for impairment based on the reporting unit’s operating performance in the back half of 2015, particularly in Latin America. Based on actions taken in late 2015 to reduce costs and initiatives and projects planned for 2016 to further improve Construction Tools & Accessories’ operating results, which include reductions in advertising and promotion and overhead costs and projects to reduce the increasingly adverse impacts of transactional foreign currency, the Company concluded Construction Tools & Accessories’ goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2015. 

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets

The Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $475.8 million as of July 1, 2015. The Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test. The Company may bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to performing the quantitative impairment test. Additionally, the Company may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. 

In performing the qualitative assessment for each of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company considered events and circumstances that could affect the significant inputs used to determine the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, including factors such as declines in actual or planned sales or negative or declining cash flows; input cost inflation that may have a negative effect on future cash flows; legal, regulatory, contractual, political, business or other factors; and, other entity-specific events such as changes in management, key personnel, strategy or customers. Based on the qualitative assessment, if the Company was unable to assert that it is not more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the Company would proceed with the quantitative impairment test for such asset. 

For the quantitative impairment test, the Company estimates the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangible assets by employing a discounted cash flow model using the relief-from-royalty method, which estimates royalties to be derived in the future use of the asset were the Company to license the use of the trade name. An impairment charge for indefinite-lived intangible assets is recorded if the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds the estimated fair value on the measurement date. 

The Company completed its annual impairment test of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of July 1, 2015 and determined that none of its significant indefinite-lived intangible assets were impaired. The Company performed the quantitative impairment test for the $37.0 million carrying value of the Aprica trade name due to competitive pressures and other factors that have recently adversely impacted Aprica sales in Japan. The Company concluded the Aprica trade name was not impaired. However, a 100 basis point decrease in the royalty rate used in the quantitative impairment test would have resulted in an impairment of the Aprica trade name of $7.8 million, and a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate used would have resulted in an impairment of $1.6 million. The Company also performed the quantitative impairment test for the $112.0 million carrying value of the Baby Jogger trade name due to the recent acquisition of the Baby Jogger business. The Company concluded the Baby Jogger trade name was not impaired. However, a 100 basis point decrease in the royalty rate used in the quantitative impairment test would have resulted in an impairment of the Baby Jogger trade name of $8.7 million, and a 100 basis point increase in the discount rate used would have resulted in an impairment of $10.2 million. 

The Company considers qualitative and quantitative factors in determining whether impairment testing of the trademark and trade name assets is necessary at dates other than the annual impairment testing date, such as whether the Company has plans to abandon or significantly reduce the use of a trademark or trade name. Based on consideration of these factors, the Company determined that no impairment indicators have been present, and therefore, impairment testing as of a date other than July 1, 2015 was not required during 2015. 

Potential for Future Impairments

The Company had 14 reporting units with total goodwill of $2.8 billion as of December 31, 2015. Six of the Company’s 14 reporting units accounted for approximately 78% of the Company’s total goodwill. These six reporting units were as follows: Writing & Creative Expression; Elmer’s; Dymo Office; Industrial Products & Services; Commercial Products and Baby & Parenting Essentials. The Company also had $653.4 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets as of December 31, 2015. The Company 

 55
cannot predict the occurrence of events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Such events may include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on the Company’s customer base and net sales, a material negative change in its relationships with significant customers, or sustained declines in the Company’s market capitalization relative to its reported stockholders' equity. The Company periodically evaluates the impact of economic and other conditions on the Company and its reporting units to assess whether impairment indicators are present. The Company may be required to perform additional impairment tests based on changes in the economic environment and other factors, which could result in impairment charges in the future. Although management cannot predict when improvements in macroeconomic conditions will occur, if consumer confidence and consumer spending decline significantly in the future or if commercial and industrial economic activity deteriorates significantly from current levels, it is reasonably likely the Company will be required to record impairment charges in the future.

Capitalized Software Costs 

The Company capitalizes costs associated with internal-use software during the application development stage after both the preliminary project stage has been completed and the Company’s management has authorized and committed to funding for further project development. Capitalized internal-use software costs include: (i) external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software; (ii) payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote time directly to the project; and (iii) interest costs incurred while developing the software. Capitalization of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose. The Company expenses as incurred research and development, general and administrative, and indirect costs associated with internal-use software. In addition, the Company expenses as incurred training, maintenance and other internal-use software costs incurred during the post-implementation stage. Costs associated with upgrades and enhancements of internal-use software are capitalized only if such modifications result in additional functionality of the software. The Company capitalized $38.9 million of internal-use software costs during 2015, which primarily relate to employee, consultant and related personnel costs incurred in the rollout of SAP in Asia Pacific. Capitalized software costs net of accumulated amortization were $212.9 million at December 31, 2015, which excludes $14.9 million of capitalized internal-use software classified as assets held for sale. Capitalized interest costs included in capitalized software were not material as of December 31, 2015.

The Company amortizes internal-use software costs using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the software, which typically ranges from 3 to 12 years. Capitalized software costs are evaluated annually for indicators of impairment, including but not limited to a significant change in available technology or the manner in which the software is being used. Impaired items are written down to their estimated fair values. 

Other Long-Lived Assets 

The Company continuously evaluates whether impairment indicators related to its property, plant and equipment and other long-lived assets are present. These impairment indicators may include a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset or asset group, a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset or asset group is being used or in its physical condition, or a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset or asset group. If impairment indicators are present, the Company estimates the future cash flows for the asset or group of assets. The sum of the undiscounted future cash flows attributable to the asset or group of assets is compared to their carrying amount. The cash flows are estimated utilizing various assumptions regarding future sales and expenses, working capital and proceeds from asset disposals on a basis consistent with the Company’s forecasts. If the carrying amount exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows, the Company discounts the future cash flows using a discount rate required for a similar investment of like risk and records an impairment charge as the difference between the fair value and the carrying value of the asset group. Generally, the Company performs its testing of the asset group at the product-line level, as this is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available. 

Product Liability Reserves 

The Company has a self-insurance program for product liability that includes reserves for self-retained losses and certain excess and aggregate risk transfer insurance. The Company uses historical loss experience combined with actuarial evaluation methods, review of significant individual files and the application of risk transfer programs in determining required product liability reserves. The Company’s actuarial evaluation methods take into account claims incurred but not reported when determining the Company’s product liability reserve. The Company has product liability reserves of $41.2 million as of December 31, 2015. While the Company believes that it has adequately reserved for these claims, the ultimate outcome of these matters may exceed the amounts recorded by the Company, and such additional losses may be material to the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 56
Legal and Environmental Reserves 

The Company is subject to losses resulting from extensive and evolving federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations, as well as contract and other disputes. The Company evaluates the potential legal and environmental losses relating to each specific case and estimates the probability and amount of loss based on historical experience and estimates of cash flows for certain environmental matters. The estimated losses take into account anticipated costs associated with investigative and remediation efforts where an assessment has indicated that a probable liability has been incurred and the cost can be reasonably estimated. No insurance recovery is taken into account in determining the Company’s cost estimates or reserve, nor do the Company’s cost estimates or reserve reflect any discounting for present value purposes, except with respect to long-term operations and maintenance, Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) and other matters which are estimated at present value. The Company’s estimate of environmental response costs associated with these matters as of December 31, 2015, ranged between $22.9 million and $28.8 million. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had a reserve of $23.5 million for such environmental response costs in the aggregate, which is included in other accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

Income Taxes 

In accordance with relevant authoritative guidance, the Company accounts for deferred income taxes using the asset and liability approach. Under this approach, deferred income taxes are recognized based on the tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as measured by current enacted tax rates. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that will more likely than not be realized. No provision is made for the U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, as substantially all such earnings are permanently reinvested. 

The Company’s income tax provisions are based on calculations and assumptions that are subject to examination by the IRS and other tax authorities. Although the Company believes that the positions taken on previously filed tax returns are reasonable, it has established tax, interest and penalty reserves in recognition that various taxing authorities may challenge the positions taken, which could result in additional liabilities for taxes, interest and penalties. The Company regularly reviews its deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. 

For uncertain tax positions, the Company applies the provisions of relevant authoritative guidance, which requires application of a “more likely than not” threshold to the recognition and derecognition of tax positions. The Company’s ongoing assessments of the more likely than not outcomes of tax authority examinations and related tax positions require significant judgment and can increase or decrease the Company’s effective tax rate as well as impact operating results. 

The Company’s provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be favorably or adversely affected by earnings being higher or lower in countries that have lower tax rates and higher or lower in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in tax-related legislation; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by changes in accounting principles; by liquidity needs driving repatriations of non-U.S. cash to the U.S.; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. 

The Company’s effective tax rate differs from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign tax rates, tax credits, the domestic manufacturing deduction, tax audit settlements and valuation allowance adjustments. Significant judgment is required in evaluating uncertain tax positions, determining valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets, and ultimately, the income tax provision. 

It is difficult to predict when resolution of income tax matters will occur and when recognition of certain income tax assets and liabilities is appropriate, and the Company’s income tax expense in the future may continue to differ from the statutory rate because of the effects of similar items. For example, if items are favorably resolved or management determines a deferred tax asset is realizable that was previously reserved, the Company will recognize period tax benefits. Conversely, to the extent tax matters are unfavorably resolved or management determines a valuation allowance is necessary for a tax asset that was not previously reserved, the Company will recognize incremental period tax expense. These matters are expected to contribute to the tax rate differing from the statutory rate and continued volatility in the Company’s effective tax rate. 

See Footnote 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

 57
Pensions and Other Post-retirement Benefits 

Pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and liabilities are dependent on assumptions used in calculating such amounts. The primary assumptions include factors such as discount rates, health care cost trend rates, expected return on plan assets, mortality rates and rate of compensation increases, as discussed below: 

•Discount rates: The Company generally estimates the discount rate for its pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations using an iterative process based on a hypothetical investment in a portfolio of high-quality bonds that approximate each year’s estimated cash flows of the pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. The Company believes this approach permits a matching of future cash outflows related to benefit payments with future cash inflows associated with bond coupons and maturities. 

•Health care cost trend rate: The Company’s health care cost trend rate is based on historical retiree cost data, near-term health care outlook, and industry benchmarks and surveys.

•Expected return on plan assets: The Company’s expected return on plan assets is derived from reviews of asset allocation strategies and historical and anticipated future long-term performance of individual asset classes. The Company’s analysis gives consideration to historical returns and long-term, prospective rates of return. 

•Mortality rates: Mortality rates are based on actual and projected plan experience, including consideration of the most recent mortality tables issued by the Society of Actuaries for the Company’s U.S. plans.

•Rate of compensation increase: The rate of compensation increases reflects the Company’s long-term actual experience and its outlook, including consideration of expected rates of inflation. 

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods, and therefore, generally affect recognized expense in future periods. While management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect the Company’s pension and other post-retirement plan obligations and future expense. See Footnote 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the assumptions used.

The following tables summarize the Company’s pension and other post-retirement plan assets and obligations included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015 (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The following table summarizes the net pretax cost associated with pensions and other post-retirement benefit obligations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company used a weighted-average discount rate of 3.6% to determine the expenses for 2015 for the pension and post-retirement plans. The Company used a weighted-average expected return on assets of 5.8% to determine the expense for the pension plans for 2015. 

 58
Effective December 31, 2015, the Company changed the method used to estimate the service and interest components of net periodic benefit cost for the defined benefit pension and other post-retirement plans. This new estimation approach discounts the individual expected cash flows underlying the service cost and interest cost using the applicable spot rates derived from the yield curve used to discount the cash flows used to measure the benefit obligations. Historically, the estimated service and interest cost components utilized a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligations at the beginning of the period.

The Company elected this change to provide a more precise measurement of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and the corresponding spot yield curve rates. The change is accounted for as a change in accounting estimate that is inseparable from a change in accounting principle and accordingly will be accounted for prospectively. While the benefit obligations for the plans measured under this approach are unchanged, the more granular application of the spot rates will reduce the 2016 service and interest cost by $9.5 million. 

The Company reduced its estimated return on asset assumption for its primary U.S. pension plan from 7.25% in 2015 to 6.25% in 2016, which the Company estimates will result in a $6.8 million increase in pension expense in 2016.

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in certain assumptions for the pension and post-retirement plan expenses, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The total projected benefit obligations of the Company’s pension and post-retirement plans as of December 31, 2015 were $1.55 billion and $67.9 million, respectively. The Company used a weighted-average discount rate of 3.9% to determine the projected benefit obligations for the pension and post-retirement plans as of December 31, 2015. 

The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in certain assumptions for the projected benefit obligation for the pension and post-retirement plans, holding all other assumptions constant (in millions): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company has $422.3 million (after-tax) of net unrecognized pension and other post-retirement losses ($619.6 million pretax) included as a reduction to stockholders’ equity at December 31, 2015. The unrecognized gains and losses primarily result from changes to life expectancies and other actuarial assumptions, changes in discount rates, as well as actual returns on plan assets being more or less than expected. The unrecognized gain (loss) for each plan is generally amortized to expense over the remaining life of each plan. The net amount amortized to expense totaled $21.8 million (pretax) in 2015, and amortization of unrecognized net losses is expected to continue to result in increases in pension and other post-retirement plan expenses for the foreseeable future. In addition, the Company recognized $52.1 million of previously unrecognized pension losses as a settlement charge in 2015 in connection with the payment of lump-sum benefits to certain U.S. pension plan participants. Changes in actuarial assumptions, changes in discount rates, actual returns on plan assets and changes in the actuarially determined life of the plans impact the amount of unrecognized gain (loss) recognized as expense annually. 

Restructuring 

The Company has and expects to continue to engage in restructuring activities, which requires management to utilize significant estimates related to the timing and amount of severance and other employee separation costs for workforce reductions and other separation programs, realizable values of assets made redundant or obsolete, lease cancellation costs, sublease income and other exit costs, including environmental and legal contingencies associated with restructuring activities. The Company accrues for severance and other employee separation costs under these activities when it is probable that benefits will be paid and the amount is reasonably estimable. The rates used in determining severance accruals are based on existing plans, historical experience and previously negotiated settlements. The Company accrues for future lease costs, net of management’s estimate for future sublease income, when the leased property has been vacated and is no longer being used. When estimating the costs of exiting facilities, 

 59
estimates are made regarding future sublease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results and result in additional restructuring costs in future periods. Environmental and legal contingencies associated with restructuring activities are accrued when the liability is probable of being incurred and is estimable. The total restructuring liabilities included in accrued liabilities and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $67.4 million and $46.2 million, respectively. Due to the estimates required for future payments for employee separation programs, vacated leased properties and contingencies, actual amounts paid can differ from these estimates. 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 

See Item 8 of Part II, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Footnote 1—Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies—Recent Accounting Pronouncements.” 

International Operations 

For 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company’s non-U.S. businesses accounted for approximately 27%, 31% and 33% of net sales, respectively (see Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Changes in both U.S. and non-U.S. net sales are shown below for the years ended December 31, (in millions, except percentages): 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The Company previously accounted for its Venezuelan operations using highly inflationary accounting. Under highly inflationary accounting, the Company remeasures assets, liabilities, sales and expenses denominated in Bolivar Fuertes into U.S. Dollars using the applicable exchange rate, and the resulting translation adjustments are included in earnings. The Company deconsolidated its Venezuelan operations effective December 31, 2015 and began accounting for its investment in its Venezuelan operations using the cost method of accounting. Sales of the Company’s Venezuela operations are included in the Non-U.S. amounts in the table above for all periods presented.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company’s Venezuelan operations. 

Income Taxes

The Company’s provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be favorably or adversely affected by earnings being higher or lower in countries that have lower tax rates and higher or lower in countries that have higher tax rates; by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; by expiration of or lapses in tax-related legislation; by expiration of or lapses in tax incentives; by tax effects of nondeductible compensation; by changes in accounting principles; or by changes in tax laws and regulations, including possible U.S. changes to the taxation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries, the deductibility of expenses attributable to foreign income, or the foreign tax credit rules. 

The Company’s effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate, primarily due to the tax impact of state taxes, foreign operations, tax credits, the domestic manufacturing deduction, tax audit settlements, nondeductible compensation and valuation allowance adjustments. Significant judgment is required in evaluating uncertain tax positions, determining valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets, and ultimately, the income tax provision. 

It is difficult to predict when resolution of income tax matters will occur and when recognition of certain income tax assets and liabilities is appropriate, and the Company’s income tax expense in the future may continue to differ from the statutory rate because of the effects of similar items. For example, if items are favorably resolved or management determines a deferred tax asset is realizable that was previously reserved, the Company will recognize period tax benefits. Conversely, to the extent tax matters are unfavorably resolved or management determines a valuation allowance is necessary for a tax asset that was not previously reserved, the Company will recognize incremental period tax expense. These matters are expected to contribute to the tax rate differing from the statutory rate and continued volatility in the Company’s effective tax rate.

Fair Value Measurements 

Fair value is a market-based measurement, not an entity-specific measurement, defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Various valuation techniques exist for measuring fair value, including the market approach (comparable market prices), the income approach (present 

 60
value of future income or cash flow), and the cost approach (cost to replace the service capacity of an asset or replacement cost). These valuation techniques are based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s market assumptions. The authoritative accounting guidance for fair value provides a hierarchy that prioritizes these two inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. 

The following is a brief description of those three levels: 

•Level 1: Observable inputs such as quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. 

•Level 2: Observable inputs other than quoted prices that are directly or indirectly observable for the asset or liability, including quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for similar or identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable. 

•Level 3: Unobservable inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions. 

The Company’s assets and liabilities adjusted to fair value at least annually are its money market fund investments, included in cash and cash equivalents; mutual fund and other investments, included in other assets; derivative instruments, primarily included in prepaid expenses and other, other assets, other accrued liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities; and pension assets and liabilities included in the Company’s net pension liability, and these assets and liabilities are therefore subject to the measurement and disclosure requirements outlined in the authoritative guidance. The Company determines the fair value of its money market fund investments based on the values of the underlying assets (Level 2) and its mutual fund and other investments based on quoted market prices (Level 1). The Company generally uses derivatives for hedging purposes, and the Company’s derivatives are primarily foreign currency forward contracts, forward-starting interest rate swaps and interest rate swaps. The Company determines the fair value of its derivative instruments using standard pricing models and market-based assumptions for all significant inputs, such as yield curves and quoted spot and forward exchange rates. Accordingly, the Company’s derivative instruments are classified as Level 2. The Company determines the fair value of its pension assets annually primarily based on quoted market prices (Level 1) and the fair value of underlying investments and market-based inputs (Level 2). The fair values of approximately 2% of the Company’s pension assets at December 31, 2015 are determined using Level 3 inputs.

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements in this Report are made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements may relate to, but are not limited to, information or assumptions about the effects of sales (including pricing), income/(loss), earnings per share, return on equity, return on invested capital, operating income, operating margin or gross margin improvements or declines, Project Renewal, capital and other expenditures, working capital, cash flow, dividends, capital structure, debt to capitalization ratios, debt ratings, availability of financing, interest rates, restructuring and other project costs, impairment and other charges, potential losses on divestitures, impacts of changes in accounting standards, pending legal proceedings and claims (including environmental matters), future economic performance, costs and cost savings, inflation or deflation with respect to raw materials and sourced products, productivity and streamlining, synergies, changes in foreign exchange rates, product recalls, expected benefits and synergies and financial results from recently completed acquisitions and planned acquisitions and divestitures and management’s plans, goals and objectives for future operations, performance and growth or the assumptions relating to any of the forward-looking statements. These statements generally are accompanied by words such as “intend,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “project,” “target,” “plan,” “expect,” “will,” “should,” “would” or similar statements. The Company cautions that forward-looking statements are not guarantees because there are inherent difficulties in predicting future results. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Company’s dependence on the strength of retail, commercial and industrial sectors of the economy in light of the continuation or escalation of the global economic slowdown or regional sovereign debt issues; currency fluctuations; competition with other manufacturers and distributors of consumer products; major retailers’ strong bargaining power and consolidation of the Company’s customers; changes in the prices of raw materials and sourced products and the Company’s ability to obtain raw materials and sourced products in a timely manner from suppliers; the Company’s ability to develop innovative new products and to develop, maintain and strengthen its end-user brands, including the ability to realize anticipated benefits of increased increased advertising and promotion spend; product liability, product recalls or regulatory actions; the Company’s ability to expeditiously close facilities and move operations while managing foreign regulations and other impediments; a failure of one of the Company’s key information technology systems or related controls; the potential inability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; future events that could adversely affect the value of the Company’s assets and require impairment charges; the Company’s ability to improve productivity and streamline operations; changes to the Company’s credit ratings; significant increases in the funding obligations related to the Company’s pension plans due to declining asset values, declining interest rates or otherwise; 

 61
the imposition of tax liabilities greater than the Company’s provisions for such matters; the risks inherent in the Company’s foreign operations, including exchange controls and pricing restrictions; the Company’s ability to realize the expected benefits, synergies and financial results from the Company’s recently acquired businesses and pending acquisitions; the Company’s inability to obtain stockholder or domestic and foreign regulatory approvals required to complete planned acquisitions and divestitures; failure to satisfy a condition to closing of planned acquisitions and divestitures; the Company’s ability to complete planned acquisitions and divestitures; difficulties or high costs associated with securing financing necessary to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration contemplated by the pending Jarden transaction; risks related to the substantial indebtedness that the Company will incur in connection with the pending Jarden transaction and the Company’s ability to maintain its investment grade credit ratings; difficulties integrating the Company’s business with Jarden and unexpected costs or expenses associated with the pending Jarden transaction; and those matters set forth in this Report generally, including Item 1A herein. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and assessed all of the factors affecting the Company or that the publicly available and other information the Company receives with respect to these factors is complete or correct.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK