PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

“Newell Rubbermaid” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we,” “us” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. The Company was founded in Ogdensburg, NY in 1903 and is incorporated in Delaware. The Company’s principal executive office is located at Three Glenlake Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia 30328, and the Company’s telephone number is 770-418-7000.

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports

The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K.

GENERAL

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that help people get more out of life every day, where they live, learn, work and play. The Company’s products are marketed under a strong portfolio of leading brands, including Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Expo®, Prismacolor®, Mr. Sketch®, Elmer’s®, Parker®, Waterman®, Dymo®, Rubbermaid®, Contigo®, Goody®, Calphalon®, Irwin®, Lenox®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Graco®, Aprica® and Baby Jogger®. 

The Company is driving its strategy, the Growth Game Plan, into action and simplifying its structure through the execution of Project Renewal, making sharper portfolio choices and investing in new marketing and innovation to accelerate performance. In the Growth Game Plan operating model, the Company has two core activity systems, Development and Delivery, supported by three business partnering functions, Human Resources, Finance/IT and Legal, and four winning capabilities in Design, Marketing & Insight, Supply Chain and Customer Development, all in service to drive accelerated performance in the Company’s five segments. The Company’s five segments and the key brands included in each segment are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Commercial Products: Rubbermaid Commercial Products® [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

In October 2015, the Company completed the acquisition of Elmer’s Products, Inc. (“Elmer’s”). Elmer’s, whose brands include Elmer’s®, Krazy Glue® (a trademark of Toagosei Co. Ltd., used with permission) and X-Acto®, is a provider of activity-based adhesive and cutting products that inspire creativity in the classroom, at home, in the office, in the workshop and at the craft table. Elmer’s is included in the Writing segment.

Based on the Company’s strategy to allocate resources to its businesses relative to each business’ growth potential and, in particular, those businesses with the greater right to win in the marketplace, during 2015 the Company divested its Rubbermaid medical cart business, which focuses on optimizing nurse work flow and medical records processing in hospitals and was included in the Commercial Products segment. During 2015, the Company also initiated a process to divest its Levolor® and Kirsch® window coverings brands (“Décor”). The Rubbermaid medical cart and Décor businesses do not qualify as discontinued operations pursuant to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, and as a result, the medical cart business was included in the Company’s consolidated results from continuing operations in the Commercial Products segment until it was sold in August 2015, and Décor is and will continue to be included in the Company’s consolidated results from continuing operations in the Home Solutions segment until the business is sold. 

The Endicia on-line postage business and the Culinary electrics and retail businesses are classified as discontinued operations based on the Company’s commitment in 2014 to sell these businesses. Endicia was included in the Writing segment and the Culinary businesses were included in the Home Solutions segment. The Company completed the sale of Endicia in November 2015 and ceased operations in its Culinary electrics and retail businesses in the first quarter of 2015. 

 3
JARDEN ACQUISITION

On December 13, 2015, the Company entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the “Merger Agreement”) to acquire Jarden Corporation (“Jarden”). The combined company will be named Newell Brands Inc. (“Newell Brands”), a consumer goods company with $16 billion in sales with a portfolio of leading brands in large, growing, unconsolidated, global markets. Jarden is a leading, global consumer products company with leading brands, such as Yankee Candle, Crock-Pot, FoodSaver, Mr. Coffee, Oster, Coleman, First Alert, Rawlings, Jostens, K2, Marker, Marmot, Volkl, and many others. 

Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Jarden shareholders will receive at closing for each share of Jarden common stock merger consideration of (1) 0.862 of a share of Newell Rubbermaid common stock plus (2) $21.00 in cash. Based on the closing price of a share of Newell Rubbermaid common stock on February 24, 2016 of $37.74 per share, the implied total consideration is approximately $14.0 billion, including $5.5 billion of cash and $8.5 billion of Newell Rubbermaid common stock. 

The scaled enterprise is expected to accelerate profitable growth with leading brands in a global market that exceeds $100 billion, with business and capability development supported by the efficiencies of this transformational combination. Management believes that the scale of the combined Newell Rubbermaid and Jarden businesses in key categories, channels and geographies creates a much broader opportunity to deploy the Company’s advantaged set of brand development and commercial capabilities for accelerated growth and margin expansion. 

The transaction will be funded by cash on hand and additional debt financing. Newell Rubbermaid has obtained a committed bridge credit facility, which it expects to replace with permanent financing prior to closing. The Company is committed to maintaining its investment grade credit rating by using strong cash flow from the combined enterprise to prioritize debt reduction in the short term, while simultaneously maintaining its dividend per share. 

Newell Rubbermaid anticipates incremental annualized cost synergies of approximately $500 million over four years, driven by efficiencies of scale and new efficiencies in procurement, cost to serve and infrastructure that the combination unlocks. The Company’s intent is to design a benchmarked, efficient set of structures that support long-term business development. 

The acquisition is subject to approval by shareholders of both Newell Rubbermaid and Jarden, receipt of regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. It is expected to close in the second quarter of 2016.

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements included in this report.

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES

Newell Rubbermaid is committed to building leading brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer superior performance and value. In 2015, the Company increased advertising and promotion investments in support of its brands by $42.3 million compared to 2014, and the Company intends to continue to leverage its portfolio of leading brands to create a margin structure that allows for further increases in brand investment. 

The Company is executing its Growth Game Plan, which is its strategy to simplify the organization and free up resources to invest in growth initiatives and strengthened capabilities in support of the Company’s brands. The changes being implemented in the execution of the Growth Game Plan are considered key enablers to building a bigger, faster-growing, more global and more profitable company. 

The Growth Game Plan encompasses the following aspects:

The Newell Way

The Newell Way is a set of behaviors that involve putting our consumers first in everything we do because our brands are designed to help consumers achieve more in life. When our consumers benefit, all of our other constituents benefit, including our customers, our employees and our investors. 

Growth is our key to success and is the energy that powers the Company. We aim to be more invested than our competitors in creating meaningful connections that drive growth with our consumers, customers, suppliers, employees and communities. The Newell Way is designed to build exceptional leadership at every level in the organization that will accelerate the Company’s performance and drive its transformation forward. 

 4
The Newell Way is not simply a means to improve business results; it is a means to improve personal results. We do what we say we are going to do and execute with E.D.G.E. - Every Day Great Execution. We will execute using the key tenets of The Newell Way to guide our decisions, with the aim of making the Company one of the leading consumer goods companies in the world. 

Where To Play

Win Bigger - Deploying resources to businesses and regions with higher growth opportunities through investments in innovation, brand support and geographic expansion. Our Win Bigger businesses include Writing & Creative Expression, which is included in the Writing segment, Food & Beverage, which is included in the Home Solutions segment, and the Tools and Commercial Products segments.

Win Where We Are - Optimizing the performance of businesses and brands in existing markets by investing in innovation and brand support to increase market share and reducing structural spend within the existing geographic footprint. Our Win Where We Are businesses include all businesses in the Home Solutions segment other than Food & Beverage, the Baby & Parenting segment, and the Elmer’s, Labeling and Fine Writing businesses in the Writing segment. 

5 Ways To Win

•Make Our Brands Really Matter — Building an innovation engine, developing outstanding brand communications and winning with superior product design and performance.

•Build An Execution Powerhouse — Transforming our supply chain and becoming a partner of choice to our customers.

•Unlock Trapped Capacity For Growth — Eliminating complexity and establishing and developing an operating rhythm and information strategy to support growth.

•Develop The Team For Growth — Building a community of leaders and focusing the organization on a performance-based culture and learning and development.

•Extend Beyond Our Borders — Create and develop local teams in developing markets to build consumer insights and build the business locally. 

The Company’s transformation efforts in driving the Growth Game Plan into action began in late 2011 and are being implemented over a multi-year period in three phases, which are outlined below. 

•Delivery Phase — Execution during this phase included implementing structural changes in the organization while ensuring consistent execution and delivery.

•Strategic Phase — Continued consistent execution and delivery while simultaneously shaping the future through increased brand investment and bringing capabilities to speed in order to propel the Growth Game Plan into action.

•Acceleration Phase — Expand investments behind Win Bigger businesses to drive increased sales and margin expansion, which creates additional resources for further brand investment, while also remaining focused on consistent execution and delivery.

During 2015, the Company executed against the Strategic Phase of the Growth Game Plan, investing in core activity systems critical to the Company’s success, unlocking trapped capacity for growth through Project Renewal, investing in new capabilities and the Company’s brands for accelerated growth, and beginning to leverage an operating company structure to release the full potential of the business. During 2016, the Company plans to transition to the Acceleration Phase of the Growth Game Plan.

The Company will continue implementing changes to drive the Growth Game Plan strategy into action. These changes are the foundation of Project Renewal and are organized into the following five workstreams:

•Organizational Simplification: The Company has de-layered its top structure and further consolidated its businesses from nine global business units (“GBUs”) to three operating groups that manage five operating segments.

•EMEA Simplification: The Company is focusing its resources on fewer products and countries, while simplifying go-to-market, delivery and back office support structures.

•Best Cost Finance: The Company is delivering a simplified approach to decision support, transaction processing and information management by leveraging SAP and the streamlined business segments to align resources with the Growth Game Plan. 

•Best Cost Back Office: The Company is driving “One Newell Rubbermaid” efficiencies in customer and consumer services and sourcing functions. 

 5
•Supply Chain Footprint: The Company is further optimizing manufacturing and distribution facilities across its global supply chain. 

In April 2015, the Company committed to a further expansion of Project Renewal (the “April 2015 Expansion”). Project Renewal was initially launched in October 2011 to reduce the complexity of the organization and increase investment in growth platforms within the business. Under Project Renewal, the Company is simplifying and aligning its businesses around two key activities - Brand & Category Development and Market Execution & Delivery. The April 2015 Expansion is expected to generate annualized incremental cost savings of approximately $150 million when fully implemented by the end of 2017, which includes savings expected to be realized during 2018 from projects completed in 2017. Under the April 2015 Expansion, the Company plans to implement additional activities designed to further streamline business partnering functions (e.g., Finance/IT, Legal and Human Resources), optimize global selling and trade marketing functions and rationalize the Company’s real estate portfolio. A large portion of the incremental savings are intended to be reinvested in the business to strengthen brand building and selling capabilities in priority markets around the world. In connection with the April 2015 Expansion, the Company expects to incur $150 million of additional costs. As a result, the cumulative costs of Project Renewal are expected to be approximately $690 to $725 million, of which approximately $645 to $675 million are expected to be cash costs. Project Renewal is expected to generate annualized cost savings of approximately $620 to $675 million by the end of 2017, which includes savings expected to be realized during 2018 from projects completed in 2017.

BUSINESS SEGMENTS

The Company’s five business segments and the key brands included in each of the segments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Writing

The Company’s Writing segment is comprised of the Writing & Creative Expression business within the Win Bigger framework of the Growth Game Plan and the Elmer’s, Labeling and Fine Writing businesses within the Win Where We Are framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Writing segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes writing instruments, adhesives, cutting products and labeling solutions, primarily for use in business and the home. The segment’s product offerings include markers, highlighters, activity-based adhesives, cutting products and everyday and fine writing instruments and accessories. Permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters and art supplies are primarily sold under the Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Prismacolor® and Mr. Sketch® trademarks. Ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction supplies are primarily sold under the Paper Mate®, InkJoy®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America and certain areas in Latin America), Sharpie®, Mongol® and Liquid Paper® trademarks. Activity-based adhesives and cutting products are primarily sold under the Elmer’s®, Krazy Glue® and X-Acto® trademarks. Fine writing instruments are primarily sold under the Parker®, Waterman® and Rotring® trademarks. The Writing segment’s on-demand labeling solutions are primarily sold under the Dymo® Office trademark.

The Writing segment generally markets its products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, travel retail, on-line and other retailers.

 6
Home Solutions

The Company’s Food & Beverage business within the Home Solutions segment is a Win Bigger business, and the consumer storage and organization, cookware, window treatments and hair care accessories businesses within the Home Solutions segment are Win Where We Are businesses within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Home Solutions segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes a wide range of consumer products under multiple brand names. Indoor/outdoor organization and home storage products are primarily sold under the Rubbermaid® and Roughneck® trademarks. Food storage and on-the-go hydration and thermal bottles are primarily sold under the Rubbermaid®, TakeAlongs®, Contigo®, Avex® and bubba® trademarks. Aluminum and stainless steel cookware and bakeware are sold under the Calphalon® trademark. Window treatments are primarily sold under the Levolor® trademark. Hair care accessories and grooming products are marketed primarily under the Goody® trademark.

The Home Solutions segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants and specialty, grocery/drug and department stores.

Tools

The Company’s Tools segment is a Win Bigger business within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Tools segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes hand tools and power tool accessories, industrial bandsaw blades, tools and industrial labeling solutions. Hand tools and power tool accessories are primarily sold under the Irwin® trademark, while industrial bandsaw blades and cutting and drilling accessories are sold under the Lenox® trademark. Heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) tools are sold under the hilmorTM trademark, and industrial label makers are sold under the Dymo® trademark.

The Tools segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, industrial/construction outlets and other professional customers.

Commercial Products

The Company’s Commercial Products segment is a Win Bigger business within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Commercial Products segment designs, manufactures or sources and distributes cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems and material handling solutions. Rubbermaid Commercial Products® primarily sells its products under the Rubbermaid®and Brute® trademarks.

The Commercial Products segment primarily markets its products through distributors and directly to mass merchants, home centers, commercial products distributors, select contract customers and other professional customers.

Baby & Parenting

The Company’s Baby & Parenting segment is a Win Where We Are business within the framework of the Growth Game Plan. The Baby & Parenting segment designs and distributes infant and juvenile products such as car seats, strollers, swings, highchairs and playards, and primarily sells its products under the Graco®, Baby Jogger®, City Mini®, City Select®, Aprica® and Teutonia® trademarks. The Baby & Parenting segment sources substantially all of its products. 

The Baby & Parenting segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants, department stores, distributors and on-line retailers.

 7
NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for continuing operations for 2015, 2014 and 2013 for the Company’s five business segments. The Company acquired Elmer’s in 2015. The Company acquired Ignite Holdings, LLC (“Ignite”) in September 2014, the assets of bubba brands, inc. (“bubba”) in October 2014 and Baby Jogger Holdings, Inc. (“Baby Jogger”) in December 2014. Ignite and bubba are designers and marketers of durable beverage containers, and Baby Jogger is a designer and marketer of premium infant and juvenile products. The net sales of these businesses are included in the table below since the acquisition date of each business. Elmer’s is included in the Writing segment, Ignite and bubba are included in the Home Solutions segment, and Baby Jogger is included in the Baby & Parenting segment. The Company sold the Rubbermaid medical cart business in August 2015, and the Rubbermaid medical cart business’ sales are included in the table below in the Commercial Products segment up to the date the business was sold (in millions, except percentages).  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries, which includes Sam’s Club, amounted to approximately 10.9%, 10.6% and 11.2% of consolidated net sales for 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, substantially across all segments. For more detailed segment information, including operating income and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-Product Offering

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income, and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.

Foreign Operations

Information regarding the Company’s 2015, 2014 and 2013 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A, of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.

Please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Company’s Venezuelan operations. 

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, aluminum and gold. The Company’s resin purchases principally comprise polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices, labor and sourced products, and in 2015, inflation in labor and sourced products offset deflation in raw material prices. In 2016, the Company expects continued labor and sourced product inflation and moderate inflation in raw material prices. On an annualized basis, resin and metals consumed as raw materials generally represent 10% to 15% of annual cost of products sold, with neither resin nor metals purchased as raw materials individually representing more than 10% of cost of products sold.

The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. Historically, the Company has experienced inflation in sourced product costs due to currency fluctuations and increased input and labor costs. For a limited number of product 

 8
lines, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, certain businesses within the Baby & Parenting and Home Solutions segments rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products. Specifically, the Company’s Baby & Parenting segment has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of Baby & Parenting’s sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.

Backlog

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.

Seasonal Variations

Sales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales and operating income in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. Historically, the Company has earned approximately 60% of its annual operating income during the second and third quarters of the year. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume, combined with the accounting for fixed costs such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company has historically generated more than 95% of its operating cash flow in the second half of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments and customer rebates, and credit terms provided to customers.

Patents and Trademarks

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Elmer’s®,” “Parker®,” “Waterman®,” “Dymo®,” “Rubbermaid®,” “Contigo®,” “Goody®,” “Calphalon®,” “Irwin®,” “Lenox®,” “Graco®,” “Baby Jogger®” and “Aprica®.”

Customers/Competition

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The dominant share of the market represented by large mass merchandisers, together with consumer shopping patterns, contributes to a market environment in which dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.

Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, which compete with the Company’s products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established.

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining leading brands and differentiated products that deliver superior value and performance; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; producing and procuring products at a competitive cost; and experienced management. In addition, the Company focuses on building consumer loyalty and increased consumer demand through increased investment in consumer insights and using those insights to develop innovative products and product features that meet consumers’ needs. 

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailers, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; contract stationers; and e-commerce companies. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 10.9% of net sales in 2015, across substantially all segments. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2015 included (in alphabetical order): amazon, Costco, Essendant, Lowe’s, Office Depot, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us and Wal-Mart.

 9
Environmental Matters

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.

Research and Development

The Company’s research and development efforts focus on developing new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs. The Company’s product development efforts begin with consumer insights, and the Company has consolidated its consumer marketing and insight capabilities into a global center of excellence and is investing further to strengthen these capabilities. The Company continues to invest to strengthen its product design and research and development capabilities and has consolidated its design and innovation capabilities into a center of excellence. The Company’s enhanced marketing and insight and research and development capabilities have been leveraged to implement a new ideation process throughout the business, resulting in idea fragments that feed the development of product concepts. 

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. 

Employees

As of January 31, 2016, the Company had approximately 17,200 employees worldwide. Approximately 2,500 of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries that have collective arrangements decreed by statute. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS