Item 1A. Risk Factors

The following risk factors could have a materially adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the Company's forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that the Company currently does not deem to be material also may materially impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

6
CSX CORPORATION

PART I

New legislation or regulatory changes could impact the Company's earnings or restrict its ability to independently negotiate prices.

Legislation passed by Congress or new regulations issued by federal agencies can significantly affect the revenues, costs and profitability of the Company's business. For instance, legislation proposed in the Senate in December 2009, and reintroduced in January 2011 (see Regulatory Environment in Part I for further details), if adopted, could significantly change the federal regulatory framework of the railroad industry. Several of the changes under consideration could have a significant negative impact on the Company's ability to determine prices for rail services and meet service standards, which could force a reduction in capital spending. In addition, statutes imposing price constraints or affecting rail-to-rail competition could adversely affect the Company's profitability.

Government regulation and compliance risks may adversely affect the Company's operations and financial results.

The Company is subject to the jurisdiction of various regulatory agencies, including the STB, the FRA and other state and federal regulatory agencies for a variety of economic, health, safety, labor, environmental, tax, legal and other matters. New rules or regulations by these agencies could increase the Company's operating costs or reduce operating efficiencies. For example, the RSIA mandated that the installation of PTC be completed by December 31, 2015 on main lines that carry certain hazardous materials and on lines that have commuter or passenger operations. In January 2010, the FRA issued its final rule on the design, operational requirements and implementation of the new PTC technology. The FRA is now re-examining certain aspects of the rule in response to rail industry concerns. The AAR recently advised the FRA on behalf of the industry that a nationwide interoperable PTC network cannot be completed by the December 31, 2015 deadline. Federal legislation introduced in both the House of Representatives and the Senate would, if approved, delay the final implementation of PTC from three to five years. Even if revised, the rule will continue to impose significant new costs on the Company and the rail industry. Noncompliance with these and other applicable laws or regulations could erode public confidence in the Company and can subject the Company to fines, penalties and other legal or regulatory sanctions.

Climate change legislation and regulation could adversely affect the Company's operations and financial results.

Climate change legislation or regulation has been proposed and, in some cases adopted, on the federal, state, provincial (Canada) and local levels. These final and proposed laws and regulations take the form of restrictions, caps, taxes or other controls on greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. In particular, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has issued various regulations targeting GHG emissions, including rules and standards governing GHG emissions from certain stationary sources and from vehicles.

Any of these pending or proposed laws or regulations could adversely affect CSX operations and financial results by, among other things: (1) increasing energy costs generally, making it difficult for the Company's customers in the U.S. and Canada to produce products in a cost competitive manner (particularly in the absence of similar regulations in countries like India and China); (2) increasing the Company's fuel, capital and other operating costs and negatively affecting operating and fuel efficiencies; (3) reducing coal-fired electricity generation due to mandated emission standards which CSX considers to be unachievable within the time frames ordered by the U.S. EPA, and (4) reducing the consumption of coal as a viable energy resource in the United States. Any of these factors could reduce the amount of traffic the Company handles and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

7
CSX CORPORATION

PART I

Capacity constraints could have a negative impact on service and operating efficiency.

CSXT may experience rail network difficulties related to: (i) increased passenger activities, including high-speed rail, in capacity-constrained areas, or (ii) regulatory changes impacting when CSXT can transport freight or service routes that could have a negative effect on CSXT's operational fluidity, leading to deterioration of service, asset utilization and overall efficiency.

General economic conditions could negatively affect demand for commodities and other freight.

The economic recession in late 2008 and 2009 adversely affected demand for rail and intermodal services. Although overall traffic improved in 2010 and 2011, a decline in general domestic and global economic conditions that affect demand for the commodities the Company carries could reduce revenues or have other adverse effects. In addition, if the rate of economic growth in China slows or if European economies contract, U.S. export coal volume could be adversely impacted resulting in lower revenue for CSX. Furthermore, sustained low natural gas prices are having a negative impact on domestic coal volume, as coal-fired electricity generation is being displaced by natural gas-fired generation, which could adversely impact the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 

CSXT, as a common carrier by rail, is required by law to transport hazardous materials, which could expose the Company to significant costs and claims.

Under federal regulations, CSXT is required to transport hazardous materials under its common carrier obligation. A train accident involving the transport of hazardous materials could result in significant claims arising from personal injury, property or natural resource damage, environmental penalties and remediation obligations. Such claims, if insured, could exceed existing insurance coverage or insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. 

CSXT is also required to comply with regulations regarding the handling of hazardous materials. In November 2008, the TSA issued final rules placing significant new security and safety requirements on passenger and freight railroad carriers, rail transit systems, and facilities that ship hazardous materials by rail. Noncompliance with these rules can subject the Company to significant penalties and could be a factor in litigation arising out of a train accident. Finally, legislation preventing the transport of hazardous materials through certain cities could result in network congestion and increase the length of haul for hazardous substances, which could increase operating costs, reduce operating efficiency or increase the risk of an accident involving the transport of hazardous materials.

The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations that may result in significant costs.

The Company is subject to wide-ranging federal, state, provincial (Canada) and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, emissions into the air, ground and water, the handling, storage, use, generation, transportation and disposal of waste and other materials, the clean-up of hazardous material and petroleum releases, and the health and safety of our employees. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We can also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to any hazardous substances for which we are responsible. In certain circumstances, environmental liability can extend to formerly owned or operated properties, leased properties, adjacent properties and properties owned by third parties or Company predecessors, as well as to properties currently owned, leased or used by the Company.

8
CSX CORPORATION

PART I

The Company has been, and may in the future, be subject to allegations or findings to the effect that it has violated, or is strictly liable under, environmental laws or regulations, and such violations can result in the Company's incurring fines, penalties or costs relating to the clean-up of environmental contamination. Although the Company believes it has appropriately recorded current and long-term liabilities for known and estimable future environmental costs, it could incur significant costs that exceed reserves or require unanticipated cash expenditures as a result of any of the foregoing. The Company also may be required to incur significant expenses to investigate and remediate known, unknown or future environmental contamination.

The Company relies on the stability and availability of its technology systems to operate its business.

The Company relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. The performance and reliability of the Company's technology systems are critical to its ability to operate and compete safely and effectively.  A cybersecurity attack, which is a deliberate theft of data or impairment of information technology systems, or other significant disruption or failure could result in a service interruption, train accident, misappropriation of confidential information, process failure, security breach or other operational difficulties. Such an event could result in increased capital, insurance or operating costs, including increased security costs to protect the Company's infrastructure. Disruption of the Company's information technology systems, even for short periods of time, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Disruption of the supply chain could negatively affect operating efficiency and increase costs.

The capital intensive nature and sophistication of core rail equipment (including rolling stock equipment, locomotives, rail, and ties) limits the number of railroad equipment suppliers. If any of the current manufacturers stops production or experiences a supply shortage, CSXT could experience a significant cost increase or material shortage. In addition, a few critical railroad suppliers are foreign and, as such, adverse developments in international relations, new trade regulations, disruptions in international shipping or increases in global demand could make procurement of these supplies more difficult or increase CSXT's operating costs.

Additionally, if a fuel supply shortage were to arise, whether due to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), other production restrictions, lower refinery outputs, a disruption of oil imports, adverse political developments or otherwise, the Company would be negatively impacted.

Failure to complete negotiations on collective bargaining agreements could result in strikes and/or work stoppages.

Most of CSX's employees are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of these agreements are bargained nationally by the National Carriers Conference Committee and negotiated over the course of several years and previously have not resulted in any extended work stoppages. Under the Railway Labor Act's procedures (which include mediation, cooling-off periods and the possibility of Presidential intervention), during negotiations neither party may take action until the procedures are exhausted. If, however, CSX is unable to negotiate acceptable agreements, or if terms of existing agreements are disputed, the employees covered by the Railway Labor Act could strike, which could result in loss of business and increased operating costs as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members. 

9
CSX CORPORATION

PART I

 The Company faces competition from other transportation providers.

The Company experiences competition in the form of pricing, service, reliability and other factors from various transportation providers including railroads and motor carriers that operate similar routes across its service area and, to a less significant extent, barges, ships and pipelines. Transportation providers such as motor carriers and barges utilize public rights-of-way that are built and maintained by governmental entities while CSXT and other railroads must build and maintain rail networks largely using internal resources. Any future improvements or expenditures materially increasing the quality or reducing the cost of alternative modes of transportation, or legislation providing for less stringent size or weight restrictions on trucks, could negatively impact the Company's competitive position.

Future acts of terrorism, war or regulatory changes to combat the risk of terrorism may cause significant disruptions in the Company's operations.

Terrorist attacks, along with any government response to those attacks, may adversely affect the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. CSXT's rail lines or other key infrastructure may be direct targets or indirect casualties of acts of terror or war. This risk could cause significant business interruption and result in increased costs and liabilities and decreased revenues. In addition, premiums charged for some or all of the insurance coverage currently maintained by the Company could increase dramatically or the coverage may no longer be available.

Furthermore, in response to the heightened risk of terrorism, federal, state and local governmental bodies are proposing and, in some cases, have adopted legislation and regulations relating to security issues that impact the transportation industry. For example, the Department of Homeland Security adopted regulations that require freight railroads to implement additional security protocols when transporting hazardous materials. Complying with these regulations could continue to increase the Company's operating costs and reduce operating efficiencies.

Severe weather or other natural occurrences could result in significant business interruptions and expenditures in excess of available insurance coverage.

The Company's operations may be affected by external factors such as severe weather and other natural occurrences, including floods, fires, hurricanes and earthquakes. As a result, the Company's rail network may be damaged, its workforce may be unavailable, fuel costs may rise and significant business interruptions could occur. In addition, the performance of locomotives and railcars could be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions. Insurance maintained by the Company to protect against loss of business and other related consequences resulting from these natural occurrences is subject to coverage limitations, depending on the nature of the risk insured. This insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of the Company's damages or damages to others and this insurance may not continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. Even with insurance, if any natural occurrence leads to a catastrophic interruption of service, the Company may not be able to restore service without a significant interruption in operations.

The Company may be subject to lawsuits that could result in significant expenditures.

The Company is subject to various claims and lawsuits, including putative class action litigation alleging violations of antitrust laws. The Company may experience material judgments or incur significant costs to defend existing and future lawsuits. Additionally, existing litigation may suffer adverse developments not currently reflected in the Company's reserve estimates as the ultimate outcome of existing litigation is subject to numerous factors outside of the Company's control. Final judgments or settlement amounts may differ materially from the recorded reserves.

10
CSX CORPORATION

PART I

Increases in the number and magnitude of property damage and personal injury claims could adversely affect the Company's operating results.

The Company faces inherent business risk from exposure to occupational and personal injury claims, property damage, including storm damage, and claims related to train accidents. The Company may incur significant costs to defend such claims. 

Existing claims may suffer adverse developments not currently reflected in reserve estimates, as the ultimate outcome of existing claims is subject to numerous factors outside of the Company's control. Although the Company establishes reserves and maintains insurance to cover these types of claims, final amounts determined to be due on any outstanding matters may differ materially from the recorded reserves and exceed the Company's insurance coverage.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties