PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Overview  

American Airlines Group Inc. (AAG), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are American Airlines, Inc. (American), US Airways Group, Inc. (US Airways Group) and Envoy Aviation Group Inc. (Envoy, formerly known as AMR Eagle Holding Corporation). US Airways Group’s principal subsidiary is US Airways, Inc. (US Airways) and its other wholly-owned subsidiaries include Piedmont Airlines, Inc. (Piedmont), and PSA Airlines, Inc. (PSA). AAG was formed in 1982 under the name AMR Corporation (AMR) as the parent company of American which was founded in 1934. On December 9, 2013, a subsidiary of AMR merged with and into US Airways Group, which survived as a wholly-owned subsidiary of AAG, and AAG emerged from Chapter 11. Upon closing of the Merger and emergence from Chapter 11, AMR changed its name to American Airlines Group Inc. Virtually all of AAG’s operations fall within the airline industry.  

AAG’s and American’s principal executive offices are located at 4333 Amon Carter Boulevard, Fort Worth, Texas 76155. AAG’s and American’s telephone number is 817-963-1234, and their Internet address is www.aa.com. Information contained on AAG’s and American’s website is not and should not be deemed a part of this report or any other report or filing filed with or furnished to the SEC.  

Chapter 11 Reorganization  

On November 29, 2011 (the Petition Date), AMR Corporation, its principal subsidiary, American, and certain of AMR’s other direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries (collectively, the Debtors), filed voluntary petitions for relief (the Chapter 11 Cases) under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the Bankruptcy Code) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the Bankruptcy Court). On October 21, 2013, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the Confirmation Order) approving and confirming the Debtors’ fourth amended joint plan of reorganization (as amended, the Plan).  

On December 9, 2013 (the Effective Date), the Debtors consummated their reorganization pursuant to the Plan, principally through the transactions contemplated by an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the Merger Agreement), dated as of February 13, 2013, by and among AMR, AMR Merger Sub, Inc. (Merger Sub) and US Airways Group, pursuant to which Merger Sub merged with and into US Airways Group (the Merger), with US Airways Group surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMR following the Merger.  

In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, trading in AMR’s common stock and certain debt securities on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) was suspended on January 5, 2012, and AMR’s common stock and such debt securities were delisted by the SEC from the NYSE on January 30, 2012. On January 5, 2012, AMR’s common stock began trading under the symbol “AAMRQ” (CUSIP 001765106) on the OTCQB marketplace, operated by OTC Markets Group. Pursuant to the Plan, on the Effective Date (i) all existing shares of AAG’s old common stock formerly traded under the symbol “AAMRQ” were canceled and (ii) the Company was authorized to issue up to approximately 544 million shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of AAG (AAG Common Stock) by operation of the Plan (excluding shares of AAG Common Stock issuable pursuant to the Merger Agreement). On the Effective Date, the AAG Common Stock was listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “AAL,” and AAMRQ ceased trading on the OTCQB marketplace.  

Upon emergence from Chapter 11, AAG issued approximately 53 million shares of AAG Common Stock to AMR’s old equity holders and certain of the Debtors’ employees, and issued 168 million shares of AAG Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the AAG Series A Preferred Stock), which was mandatorily convertible into new AAG Common Stock during the 120-day period after the Effective Date, to  

5  

Table of Contents 

 certain creditors and employees of the Debtors (including shares deposited in the Disputed Claims Reserve (as defined in the Plan)). In accordance with the terms of the Plan, former holders of AMR common stock (previously traded under the symbol “AAMRQ”) received, for each share of AMR common stock, an initial distribution of approximately 0.0665 shares of the AAG Common Stock as of the Effective Date. Following the Effective Date, former holders of AMR common stock and those deemed to be treated as such in connection with the elections made pursuant to the Plan have received through December 31, 2014, additional aggregate distributions of shares of AAG Common Stock of approximately 0.6776 shares of AAG Common Stock for each share of AMR common stock previously held, and may continue to receive additional distributions. As of the Effective Date, the adjusted total Double-Dip General Unsecured Claims (as defined in the Plan) were approximately $2.45 billion and the Allowed Single-Dip General Unsecured Claims (as defined in the Plan) were approximately $2.45 billion. The Disputed Claims Reserve established under the Plan initially was issued 30.4 million shares, which shares are reserved for distributions to holders of disputed Single-Dip Unsecured Claims (Single-Dip Equity Obligations) whose claims ultimately become allowed as well as to certain AMR labor groups and employees who received a deemed claim amount based upon a fixed percentage of the distributions to be made to general unsecured claimholders. As of December 31, 2014, the Disputed Claims Reserve held 26.8 million shares of AAG Common Stock pending distribution of those shares in accordance with the Plan.  

See Part II, Item 5. Market for American Airlines Group’s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Note 2 and Note 4 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8A and Note 2 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8B for further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases, the Merger and the Disputed Claims Reserve.  

Merger  

Pursuant to the Merger Agreement and consistent with the Plan, each share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of US Airways Group (the US Airways Group Common Stock) was converted into the right to receive one share of AAG Common Stock. The aggregate number of shares of AAG Common Stock issuable in the Merger to holders of US Airways Group equity instruments (including stockholders, holders of convertible notes, optionees, and holders of restricted stock units (RSUs)) represented 28% of the diluted equity ownership of AAG. The remaining 72% diluted equity ownership in AAG (up to approximately 544 million shares) was or is distributable, pursuant to the Plan (see “Chapter 11 Reorganization” above), to stakeholders, labor unions, certain employees of AMR and the other Debtors, and former holders of AMR common stock (previously traded under the symbol “AAMRQ”) such that the aggregate number of shares of AAG Common Stock issuable under the Plan will not exceed 72% of the diluted equity ownership of AAG as of the time of the Merger.  

In connection with the completion of the Merger, the NYSE suspended trading in the US Airways Group Common Stock prior to the opening of the market on December 9, 2013. The US Airways Group Common Stock was delisted from the NYSE and registration of the US Airways Group Common Stock under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act was terminated.  

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –“American Airlines Group – Year in Review,” Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “AAG Results of Operations,” Note 2 and Note 4 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8A and Note 2 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8B for further information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases and the Merger.  

Airline Operations  

As noted above, AAG is a holding company whose primary business activity is the operation of two major network carriers through its principal, wholly-owned mainline operating subsidiaries: American and, as of December 9, 2013, US Airways.  

6  

Table of Contents 

We continue to move toward operating under the single brand name of “American Airlines” through our mainline operating subsidiaries. We have made substantial progress towards integrating the operations of our mainline operating subsidiaries and towards obtaining a single operating certificate, which we expect to obtain in 2015. We are the largest airline in the world as measured by revenue passenger miles (RPMs) and available seat miles (ASMs). Together with our wholly-owned regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers operating as American Eagle and US Airways Express, our airlines operate an average of nearly 6,700 flights per day to 339 destinations in 54 countries from our hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington, D.C. In 2014, we had approximately 197 million passengers boarding our mainline and regional flights. As of December 31, 2014, we operated 983 mainline jets and were supported by our regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers, which operated an additional 566 regional aircraft.  

American and US Airways are members of the oneworld® alliance whose members and members-elect serve nearly 1,000 destinations with 14,250 daily flights to 150 countries.  

See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –“American Airlines Group – Year in Review,” “AAG Results of Operations” and “American’s Results of Operations” for further discussion of AAG’s and American’s operating results and operating performance. Also, see Note 17 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 14 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for information regarding our operating segments and operating revenue in principal geographic areas.  

Regional Operations  

Certain air carriers, including our wholly-owned regional carriers, Envoy, Piedmont and PSA, and third-party regional carriers, have arrangements with us to provide regional feed under the trade name “American Eagle” or “US Airways Express.” American Eagle and US Airways Express carriers are an integral component of our operating network. We rely heavily on feeder traffic from these regional carriers, which carry passengers to our hubs from low-density markets that are uneconomical for us to serve with large jets. In addition, regional carriers offer complementary service in our existing mainline markets by operating flights during off-peak periods between mainline flights. During 2014, approximately 52 million passengers boarded our regional carriers’ planes, approximately 45% of whom connected to or from our mainline flights. Of these passengers, approximately 25 million were enplaned by our wholly owned regional carriers and approximately 27 million were enplaned by third-party regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements.  

The American Eagle and US Airways Express arrangements are principally in the form of capacity purchase agreements. The capacity purchase agreements provide that all revenues, including passenger, mail and freight revenues, go to us. In return, we agree to pay predetermined fees to these airlines for operating an agreed-upon number of aircraft, without regard to the number of passengers on board. In addition, these agreements provide that we will reimburse 100% of certain variable costs, such as airport landing fees and passenger liability insurance. We control marketing, scheduling, ticketing, pricing and seat inventories. A very small number of regional aircraft are operated for us under prorate agreements, under which the regional carriers receive a prorated share of ticket revenue and pay certain service fees to us. The prorate carriers are responsible for all costs incurred operating the applicable aircraft. All American Eagle and US Airways Express carriers have logos, service marks, aircraft paint schemes and uniforms similar to our mainline operations.  

Cargo  

Our cargo division is one of the largest air cargo operations in the world, providing a wide range of freight and mail services, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe.  

7  

Table of Contents 

Other Revenues  

Other revenues include revenue from the marketing services related to the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage and Dividend Miles programs as discussed below under “Frequent Flyer Program,” membership fees and related revenue from our Admirals Club operations, our US Airways Club operations, and other miscellaneous service revenue, including administrative service charges and baggage handling fees.  

The U.S. Airline Industry  

In 2014, the U.S. airline industry continued to experience year-over-year growth in passenger revenues driven by strong demand for air travel.  

In its most recent data available, Airlines for America, the trade association for U.S. airlines, reported that annual U.S. industry passenger revenues and yields increased 4.2% and 1.8%, respectively, as compared to 2013. With respect to international versus domestic performance, Airlines for America reported that domestic markets outperformed international markets. Atlantic and Latin America markets experienced year-over-year growth in passenger revenues of 2.8% and 3.4%, respectively, while the Pacific market experienced year-over-year declines in passenger revenues of 1.4%.  

Jet fuel prices continue to follow the price of Brent crude oil more closely than the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil. On average, fuel costs were lower in 2014 as compared to 2013, driven by a significant decline in fuel prices in the fourth quarter of 2014. On December 31, 2014, the price of Brent crude oil fell to $55 per barrel, its lowest price since May 2009.  

While the U.S. airline industry is currently benefiting from a favorable revenue environment and significantly reduced fuel prices as described above, uncertainty exists regarding the economic conditions driving these factors. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Downturns in economic conditions adversely affect our business” and “Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity.”  

Competition  

The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Price competition occurs on a market-by-market basis through price discounts, changes in pricing structures, fare matching, target promotions and frequent flyer initiatives. On most of our domestic non-stop routes, we currently face competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline, including: Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue Airways, Southwest Airlines, Spirit Airlines, United Airlines and Virgin America. Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, we face competition on some of our connecting routes from airlines operating point-to-point service on such routes. We also compete with all-cargo and charter airlines and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation.  

On all of our routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. Airlines typically use discount fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during normally slack travel periods, when they begin service to new cities or when they have excess capacity, to generate cash flow and maximize revenue per ASM and to establish, increase or preserve market share. Discount and promotional fares are generally non-refundable and may be subject to various restrictions such as minimum stay requirements, advance ticketing, limited seating and change fees. We have often elected to match discount or promotional fares initiated by other air carriers in certain markets in order to compete in those markets. Most airlines will quickly match price reductions in a particular market. Our ability to compete on the basis of price is limited by our fixed costs and depends on our ability to manage our operating costs effectively. Some of our competitors have greater  

8  

Table of Contents 

 financial or other resources and/or lower cost structures than we do. In addition, low-fare, low-cost carriers compete in many of the markets in which we operate and competition from these carriers is increasing. For example, as a result of divestitures completed in connection with gaining regulatory approval for the Merger, low-fare, low-cost carriers have gained additional access in a number of markets, including Chicago, Dallas and Washington, D.C. These low-cost carriers generally have lower cost structures than American and US Airways.  

In addition to price competition, airlines compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. The American Eagle and US Airways Express regional carriers increase the number of markets we serve by flying to lower demand markets and providing connections at our hubs. Many of our competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional airlines which provide similar services at their hubs and other locations. We also compete on the basis of scheduling (frequency and flight times), availability of nonstop flights, on-time performance, type of equipment, cabin configuration, amenities provided to passengers, frequent flyer programs, the automation of travel agent reservation systems, onboard products, markets served and other services. We compete with both major network airlines and low-cost airlines throughout our network.  

In addition to our extensive domestic service, we provide international service to Canada, Mexico, Europe, the Middle East, the Caribbean, Central and South America, and Asia. Revenues from foreign operations (flights serving international destinations) were approximately 33% of our total operating revenues in 2014. In providing international air transportation, we compete with U.S. airlines to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations, foreign investor-owned airlines, and foreign state-owned or state-affiliated airlines, including carriers based in the Middle East, the three largest of which we believe benefit from significant government subsidies. During 2014, international capacity grew more quickly than domestic service creating a very competitive operating environment.  

Marketing and Alliance Agreements with Other Airlines  

In general, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers’ rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. To improve access to each other’s markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers, including American and US Airways, have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies. American currently has marketing relationships with Air Berlin, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, Dragonair, EL AL, Etihad Airways, Fiji Airways, Finnair, Gulf Air, Hainan Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Interjet, Japan Airlines, Jet Airways, Jetstar Group (includes Jetstar Airways and Jetstar Japan), Korean Air, LAN (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Colombia, LAN Ecuador and LAN Peru), Malaysia Airlines, Niki Airlines, Qantas Airways, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, Seaborne Airlines, TAM Airlines and WestJet.  

American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes Air Berlin, British Airways, Cathay Pacific Airways, Finnair, Iberia, Japan Airlines, LAN Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas Airways, Qatar Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, SriLankan Airlines and TAM Airlines. The oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers’ frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers’ airport lounge facilities. Together, oneworld members and members-elect serve nearly 1,000 destinations with over 14,250 daily flights to 150 countries.  

American is party to antitrust-immunized cooperation agreements with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair, Japan Airlines and Royal Jordanian. Over the last several years, American has also established joint business agreements (JBAs) with British Airways, Iberia, Japan Airlines, Qantas Airways and Finnair that enable the carriers to cooperate on flights between particular destinations and allow pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity and cooperation in other areas. American and its joint business partners received regulatory approval to enter into these JBAs.  

9  

Table of Contents 

On January 23, 2014, American and US Airways began offering enhanced connectivity of their respective networks through the implementation of a codeshare agreement between the two carriers. Through the codeshare, each airline started selling tickets operated by the other carrier using its own code and flight number, providing customers the ability to easily combine flights and seamlessly transfer bags when traveling on an itinerary that includes flights operated by both carriers.  

US Airways was previously a member of the Star Alliance® and joined oneworld on March 31, 2014. As part of this transition, codeshare and frequent flyer reciprocity between US Airways and many members of the Star Alliance ended on March 30, 2014. Some of the largest airlines with whom relationships were phased out at that time included United Airlines, Lufthansa, Swiss, Brussels Airlines, and All Nippon Airways, while relationships with others have been, or are in the process of being, phased out. US Airways also entered the transatlantic joint business on March 31, 2014 and is now pooling and sharing certain revenues and costs and enjoying enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity and coordinating in other areas with British Airways, Iberia and Finnair in the same manner as American Airlines. In 2014, US Airways also entered into codeshare cooperation with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair and AirBerlin and frequent flyer reciprocity with oneworld members.  

Industry Regulation and Airport Access  

General  

Our airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) still exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers. DOT maintains jurisdiction over the approval of domestic and international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, and consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.  

The FAA regulates flying operations, primarily in the areas of flight operations, maintenance, and other operational and safety areas. Pursuant to these regulations, our airline subsidiaries have FAA-approved maintenance programs for each type of aircraft they operate. The programs provide for the ongoing maintenance of such aircraft, ranging from periodic routine inspections to major overhauls. FAA requirements cover, among other things, retirement and maintenance of older aircraft, safety measures, collision avoidance systems, airborne windshear avoidance systems, noise abatement, other environmental concerns, fuel tank inerting, crew scheduling and experience, and aircraft operations. We are also progressing toward the completion of numerous airworthiness directives, a number of which will require us to perform significant maintenance work and to incur additional expenses. Based on the current implementation schedule, we expect to be in full compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods. Our failure to timely comply with these requirements has in the past, and could in the future, result in fines and other enforcement actions by the FAA or other regulators. The FAA also operates the air traffic control (ATC) system in the United States.  

Additionally, the FAA recently implemented rules on pilot flight and duty times and finalized rules on minimum requirements for all pilots operating commercial aircraft. Both rules have increased our costs and reduced staffing flexibility, particularly during irregular operations. We are also working with the FAA on integrating US Airways and American into a single operating certificate under the American operations specifications.  

Airlines are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the “ticket tax,” on domestic and international air transportation. Airlines collect the ticket tax, along with certain other U.S. and foreign taxes and user fees on air transportation, and pass along the collected amounts to the appropriate governmental agencies. Although these taxes are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. See “Industry Regulation and Airport Access – Security,” below for a discussion of passenger fees.  

Most major U.S. airports impose a passenger facility charge (PFC). The ability of airports to increase this charge (and the ability of airlines to contest such increases) is restricted by federal legislation, DOT regulations  

10  

Table of Contents 

 and judicial decisions. With certain exceptions, air carriers pass these charges on to passengers. However, our ability to pass through the total amount of the PFC to our customers is subject to various factors, including market conditions and competitive factors. The current cap on the PFC is $4.50 per passenger, but the industry has faced repeated efforts in Congress to raise the cap to a higher level.  

DOT consumer rules that took effect in 2010 require procedures for customer handling during long onboard delays, including additional reporting requirements for airlines, that have increased the cost of airline operations and reduced revenues. The DOT has been aggressively investigating alleged violations of these rules. In addition, the DOT finalized a second set of rules that further regulate airline interactions with passengers through the reservations process, at the airport and on board the aircraft. These rules require airlines to display all fares in an “all in” basis, with the price of the air travel and all taxes and government imposed fees rolled into the displayed fare. Enhanced disclosure of ancillary fees such as baggage fees is also required. Other rules apply to post-ticket purchase price increases and an expansion of tarmac delay regulations to international carriers. A third rulemaking that would further regulate consumer interaction with airlines is pending before DOT, with a final rule expected in 2015.  

DOT has continued its efforts to further regulate airlines through increased data reporting requirements, expansion of the Air Carrier Access Act and greater oversight of the methods airlines use to describe and sell air transportation and other products and services. Each additional regulation or other form of regulatory oversight increases costs and adds greater complexity to our operation. In this environment, no assurance can be given that compliance with these new rules, anticipated rules or other forms of regulatory oversight from the Department of Justice (DOJ), the FAA or other regulatory bodies, will not have a material adverse effect on our business.  

Among its regulatory responsibilities, DOT also enforces equal access to air transportation for disabled passengers. Over time, a number of carriers, including American and US Airways, have entered into consent orders with DOT over their handling of disabled passengers. DOT has been aggressive in prosecuting disability violations and seeks large penalties. We expect to see continued DOT emphasis in this area through both regulation and enforcement.  

DOT and the Antitrust Division of the DOJ have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective bargaining agreements (CBAs). In addition, as a result of heightened levels of concern regarding data privacy, we are subject to an increasing number of domestic and foreign laws regarding the privacy and security of passenger and employee data.  

International  

International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. Our operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities, such as the European Union (EU), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of the DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments. Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. Bilateral and multilateral agreements among the U.S. and various foreign governments of countries we serve are periodically subject to renegotiation. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, Slots or other assets located abroad, or otherwise adversely affect our international operations. While the U.S. has worked to increase the number of countries with which open skies agreements are in effect, a number of important markets to us do not have open skies agreements, including China, Hong Kong and Mexico. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs Slots and other facilities before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service. The availability of Slots is not assured, and our inability to obtain and retain needed Slots and facilities could  

11  

Table of Contents 

 therefore inhibit our efforts to compete in certain international markets. See “Industry Regulation and Airport Access – Airport Access and Operations,” below and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate Slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations” for additional information.  

Security  

The Aviation and Transportation Security Act (the Aviation Security Act) was enacted in November 2001. Under the Aviation Security Act, substantially all aspects of civil aviation security screening were federalized and a new Transportation Security Administration (TSA) under the DOT was created. The TSA was then transferred to the Department of Homeland Security pursuant to the Homeland Security Act of 2002. The Aviation Security Act, among other matters, mandates improved flight deck security; carriage of federal air marshals at no charge; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; enhanced security training; fingerprint-based background checks of all employees and vendor employees with access to secure areas of airports pursuant to regulations issued in connection with the Aviation Security Act; and the provision of certain passenger data to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection Agency. Funding for the TSA is provided by a combination of air carrier fees, passenger fees and taxpayer monies. A “passenger security fee,” which is collected by air carriers from their passengers, was set at a rate of $2.50 per flight segment but not more than $10 per round trip. However, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2014 increased the passenger security fee to $5.60 per one-way trip effective on July 11, 2014 on qualifying air transportation sold. On December 19, 2014, H.R. 5462 was signed into law, which set the round trip passenger security fee at not more than $11.20 per round trip on qualifying air transportation sold. The TSA continues to refine its guidance on how to calculate the round trip fee. The TSA’s application of screening fees to one-way trips originating outside of the United States is currently being challenged by industry trade groups, the International Air Transport Association and Airlines for America, as outside the scope of the current legislation. In addition, an air carrier fee, or Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee (ASIF), was previously imposed with an annual cap equivalent to the amount that an individual air carrier paid in calendar year 2000 for the screening of passengers and property. The fee was repealed by federal legislation and the repeal went into effect on October 1, 2014.  

Implementation of and compliance with the requirements of the Aviation Security Act have resulted and will continue to result in increased costs for us and our passengers and have resulted and will likely continue to result in service disruptions and delays. As a result of competitive pressure, we and other airlines may be unable to recover all of these additional security costs from passengers through increased fares. In addition, we cannot forecast what new security and safety requirements may be imposed in the future or the costs or financial impact of complying with any such requirements.  

Airline Fares  

Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which we serve. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets.  

Airport Access and Operations  

Domestically, any U.S. airline authorized by the DOT is generally free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its territories, with the exception of certain airports that require landing and take-off rights and authorizations and other facilities (Slots), and certain airports that impose  

12  

Table of Contents 

 geographic limitations on operations or curtail operations based on the time of day. Operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports we serve are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of Slots or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each Slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period. In addition to Slot restrictions, operations at LaGuardia Airport in New York City and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) are also limited based on the stage length of the flight.  

In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of Slots, Slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at DCA in Washington, D.C. and three New York City airports: Newark Liberty, John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and LaGuardia. There is currently a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking open for public comment concerning the management and use of Slots at the three New York City airports. Our operations at DCA and those New York City airports generally require the allocation of Slots or analogous regulatory authorities. Similarly, our operations at Frankfurt, London Heathrow, Paris and other international airports outside the U.S. are regulated by local Slot authorities pursuant to the International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines (WSG) and applicable local law. We currently have sufficient Slots or analogous authorizations to operate our existing flights and we have generally, but not always, been able to obtain the rights to expand our operations and to change our schedules. For example, we would like to serve Tokyo’s Haneda Airport but are unable to do so because of regulatory restrictions limiting the number of flights available. In addition, pursuant to the Merger clearance process in the EU, we were required to make available to other carriers certain Slots at London Heathrow. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient slots or analogous authorizations in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are often sought after by other airlines and are subject to changes in governmental policies.  

In connection with the settlement of litigation relating to the Merger brought by the DOJ and certain states, we entered into settlement agreements that provided for certain asset divestitures, including 52 Slot pairs at DCA, 17 Slot pairs at LaGuardia and gates and related ground facilities necessary to operate those Slot pairs, and two gates at each of Boston Logan International Airport, Chicago O’Hare International Airport (ORD), Dallas Love Field (DAL), Los Angeles International Airport and Miami International Airport. Our settlement agreements also require our airlines to maintain certain hub operations and continue to provide service to certain specified communities for limited periods of time. In addition, we entered into a related settlement with the DOT related to small community service from DCA. Further, as a consequence of the Merger clearance process in the EU, we made one pair of London Heathrow Slots available for use by another carrier and, along with our JBA partners, we made one pair of London Heathrow Slots available to competitors for use for up to six years in different markets.  

Our ability to provide service can also be impaired at airports, such as Chicago O’Hare and Los Angeles International, where the airport gate and other facilities are inadequate to accommodate all of the service that we would like to provide.  

The Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006 (the Wright Amendment Reform Act) reduced, and has now eliminated, all domestic non-stop geographic restrictions on operations at DAL. Although we held two gates at DAL, we did not operate from there in 2014 or 2013 and instead, operated solely at DFW. An element of our settlement of the antitrust litigation brought by the U.S. Department of Justice and certain states relating to the Merger included our divestiture of the two gates we held at DAL. Service from DAL competes with our hub at DFW Airport.  

The DOT allows local airport authorities to implement procedures designed to abate special noise problems, provided such procedures do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system. Certain locales, including Boston, Washington D.C., Chicago, San Diego and San Francisco, among others, have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of these operations. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in service or increases in operating costs, and these  

13  

Table of Contents 

 restrictions could limit the ability of our airline subsidiaries to expand their operations at the affected airports. Authorities at other airports may adopt similar noise regulations. We are continuing to see an increase in these issues throughout the country. See “Industry Regulation and Airport Access – Environmental Matters,” below.  

Civil Reserve Air Fleet  

We participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet (CRAF) program, which is a voluntary program administered by the U.S. Air Force Air Mobility Command. The General Services Administration of the U.S. Government requires that airlines participate in the CRAF program in order to receive U.S. Government business. We are reimbursed at compensatory rates if aircraft are activated under the CRAF program or when participating in Department of Defense business. If a substantial number of our aircraft are activated for operation under the CRAF program at a time of war or other national emergency, our business operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In January 2014, the U.S. Air Force proposed a radical restructuring of the CRAF program to take effect in October 2015. We do not support the new proposals as they could adversely affect our business and, together with other industry participants, we are working with the U.S. Air Force to address our concerns.  

Environmental Matters  

The airline industry is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act (CAA), the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.  

The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. The ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While we have had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, our operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.  

Many aspects of our operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations and concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. For example, the EU has established the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) to regulate GHG emissions in the EU. The EU adopted a directive in 2008 under which each EU member state is required to extend the ETS to aviation operations. This directive would have required us, beginning in 2012, to annually submit emission allowances in order to operate flights to and from airports in the European Economic Area (EEA), including flights between the U.S. and EU member states. However, in an effort to allow the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) time to propose an alternate scheme to manage global aviation emissions, in April 2013 the EU suspended for one year the ETS’ application to flights entering and departing the EEA, limiting its application, for flights flown in 2012, to intra-EEA flights only. In October 2013, the ICAO Assembly adopted a resolution calling for the development through ICAO of a global, market-based scheme for aviation GHG emissions, to be finalized in 2016 and implemented in 2020. Subsequently, the EU has amended the EU ETS so that the monitoring, reporting and submission of allowances for aviation GHG emissions will continue to be limited to only intra-EEA flights through 2016, at which time the EU will evaluate the progress made by ICAO and determine what, if any, measures to take related to aviation GHG emissions from 2017 onwards. The U.S. enacted legislation in November 2012 which encourages the DOT  

14  

Table of Contents 

 to seek an international solution through ICAO and that will allow the U.S. Secretary of Transportation to prohibit U.S. airlines from participating in the ETS. Ultimately, the scope and application of ETS or other emissions trading schemes to our operations, now or in the near future, remains uncertain.  

Similarly, within the U.S., there is an increasing trend toward regulating GHG emissions directly under the CAA. In response to a 2012 ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals District of Columbia Circuit requiring the EPA to make a final determination on whether aircraft GHG emissions cause or contribute to air pollution, which may reasonably be anticipated to endanger public health or welfare, the EPA announced in September 2014 that it is in the process of making a determination regarding aircraft GHG emissions and anticipates proposing an endangerment finding by May 2015. If the EPA makes a positive endangerment finding, the EPA is obligated under the CAA to set GHG emission standards for aircraft. Several states are also considering or have adopted initiatives to regulate emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emissions inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. These regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the U.S. at the federal and state levels, are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in the U.S., the EU or in other areas in which we do business. Depending on the scope of such regulation, certain of our facilities and operations may be subject to additional operating and other permit requirements, potentially resulting in increased operating costs.  

The environmental laws to which we are subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. We are conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. We anticipate that the ongoing costs of such activities will not have a material impact on our operations. In addition, we have been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. Our alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are relatively small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs; we anticipate that any future payments of costs at such sites will not have a material impact on our operations.  

Future Regulatory Developments  

Future regulatory developments and actions could affect operations and increase operating costs for the airline industry, including our airline subsidiaries. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate Slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations,” “Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages” and “We are subject to many forms of environmental regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result” for additional information.  

Employees and Labor Relations  

The airline business is labor intensive. In 2014, salaries, wages and benefits were one of our largest expenses and represented approximately 25% of our operating expenses. The table below presents our approximate number of active full-time equivalent employees as of December 31, 2014.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

15  

Table of Contents 

As of December 31, 2014, approximately 82% of AAG’s active employees were represented by various labor unions and covered by CBAs. Employees of American, US Airways and AAG’s regional subsidiaries are covered by labor agreements as set forth in the table below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1)  Approximate number of active full-time equivalent employees covered by the contract as of December 31, 2014.  

16  

Table of Contents 

 (2)  See discussion below regarding the process for combining mainline employee groups post-Merger.  

 (3)  Contracts are currently amendable.  

Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under the RLA, the National Mediation Board (NMB) is responsible for determining which union, if any, is designated to represent employees. In an airline merger, when different unions represent the employees at the merging carrier, a union may file an application with the NMB to represent the combined group of post-merger employees. The application is reviewed by the NMB, which considers whether the operations of the merging carriers have been sufficiently integrated to constitute a single transportation system. After the integration process is found to have created a single transportation system, the NMB then conducts an investigation to determine which union, if any, is to be the representative of the post-merger employees. That union then negotiates a joint collective bargaining agreement (JCBA) covering the combined group of post-merger employees.  

When an RLA CBA becomes amendable, if either party to the agreement wishes to modify its terms, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed by the parties. Under the RLA, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and, if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare under the RLA at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to binding arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, an initial 30-day “cooling off” period commences. Following the conclusion of that 30-day “cooling off” period, if no agreement has been reached, “self-help” (as described below) can begin unless a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) is established. A PEB examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and (if no resolution is reached) is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period (unless an agreement is reached, a PEB is established, or action is taken by Congress), the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.  

On January 3, 2015, we reached a tentative agreement with the APA on a five-year JCBA, which was ratified on January 30, 2015. The new, higher pay rates were implemented retroactive to December 2, 2014. We estimate that the ratified contract will increase our 2015 cost of pilot compensation and benefits by approximately $650 million.  

On December 18, 2014, we reached a JCBA with the APFA. On December 23, 2014, the APFA JCBA pay rates were increased by 4% due to a corporate wide initiative announced on that day. The new agreement did not require ratification and was effective immediately, with the wage increases under the JCBA becoming effective on January 1, 2015. We estimate that our total flight attendant costs in 2015 will be approximately $200 million higher as a result of this new agreement.  

Prior to the Merger, the passenger service employees of mainline US Airways were represented by the Airline Employees Customer Service Association, CWA-IBT (CWA-IBT). The CBA covering those employees is now amendable. The CWA-IBT filed a single carrier application with the NMB covering both the US Airways and the American passenger service employees and, after an NMB election, was certified to represent the combined group. Negotiations for a JCBA are now underway.  

Most of the other mainline American ground employees are represented by the TWU and covered by existing agreements that will not become amendable until 2018. The 11,000 US Airways mechanics, fleet service agents and stores employees are covered by IAM agreements that also become amendable in 2018. In August 2014, the TWU and the IAM together filed single transportation system applications to jointly represent the combined groups of mainline US Airways and mainline American mechanics, fleet service and stores employees. With  

17  

Table of Contents 

 respect to the mainline American and the mainline US Airways dispatchers, flight simulator engineers and flight crew training instructors, all of whom are now represented by the TWU, a rival organization, the National Association of Airline Professionals (NAAP), filed single carrier applications seeking to represent those employees. The NMB will have to determine that a single transportation system exists and will certify a post-merger representative of the combined employee groups before the process for negotiating new JCBAs can begin. 

The Merger had no impact on the CBAs that cover the employees of our wholly-owned subsidiary airlines which are not being merged (Envoy, Piedmont and PSA). For those employees, the RLA provides that CBAs do not expire, but instead become amendable as of a stated date.  

In 2014, Envoy pilots ratified a new 10 year collective bargaining agreement, Piedmont pilots ratified a new 10 year collective bargaining agreement and Piedmont flight attendants ratified a new five-year collective bargaining agreement.  

With the exception of the passenger service employees who are now engaged in traditional RLA negotiations that are expected to result in a JCBA and the US Airways flight simulator engineers and flight crew training instructors, other union-represented American mainline employees are covered by agreements that are not currently amendable. Until those agreements become amendable, negotiations for JCBAs will be conducted outside the traditional RLA bargaining process described above, and, in the meantime, no self-help will be permissible. The Piedmont mechanics and stock clerks and the PSA and Piedmont dispatchers also have agreements that are now amendable and are engaged in traditional RLA negotiations.  

None of the unions representing our employees presently may lawfully engage in concerted refusals to work, such as strikes, slow-downs, sick-outs or other similar activity, against us. Nonetheless, there is a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of our airline and impair our financial performance.  

For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions may adversely affect our operations.”  

Aircraft Fuel  

Our operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. Based on our 2015 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption, we estimate that, as of December 31, 2014, a one cent per gallon increase in aviation fuel price would increase our 2015 annual fuel expense by $43 million.  

The following table shows annual aircraft fuel consumption and costs, including taxes, for our mainline operations for 2012 through 2014 (gallons and aircraft fuel expense in millions).  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a)  Represents “combined” financial data, which includes the financial results of American and US Airways Group each on a standalone basis.  

Total combined fuel expenses for our wholly-owned and third-party regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements of American and US Airways Group, each on a standalone basis, were $2.0 billion, $2.1 billion and $2.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  

18  

Table of Contents 

In order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, we trade and ship fuel and maintain fuel storage facilities to support our flight operations.  

During the second quarter of 2014, we sold our portfolio of fuel hedging contracts that were scheduled to settle on or after June 30, 2014. We have not entered into any transactions to hedge our fuel consumption since December 9, 2013 and, accordingly, as of December 31, 2014, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in fuel prices. Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors.  

Fuel prices have fluctuated substantially over the past several years. We cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. Natural disasters, political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, the strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, changes in access to petroleum product pipelines and terminals, speculation in the energy futures markets, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages, additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Our business is dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices and significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and liquidity.”  

Insurance  

We maintain insurance of the types that we believe are customary in the airline industry, including insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage, and all-risk coverage for damage to our aircraft. Principal coverage includes liability for injury to members of the public, including passengers, damage to property of AAG, its subsidiaries and others, and loss of or damage to flight equipment, whether on the ground or in flight. We also maintain other types of insurance such as workers’ compensation and employer’s liability, with limits and deductibles that we believe are standard within the industry.  

In addition, insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general following September 11, 2001. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, if commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to us or significantly increase its cost, we would be materially adversely affected. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage may adversely impact our operations and financial results.”  

Customer Service  

During 2014, we worked to enhance our customers’ experience by continuing our fleet renewal program, under which we expect to achieve one of the most modern and fuel-efficient fleets in the industry. During 2014, we took delivery of 82 mainline aircraft and retired 69 older legacy mainline aircraft. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2014, we announced $2.0 billion in planned customer improvements, including new seats from nose to tail on several aircraft types and fully lie-flat seats on our long-haul international fleet; satellite-based internet access providing connectivity for international flights; a refreshed and modern design for Admirals Club lounges worldwide; onboard power on new aircraft; and improved and updated kiosks to expedite airport check-in.  

19  

Table of Contents 

Most importantly, we are committed to consistently delivering safe, reliable, and convenient service to our customers in every aspect of our operation. Our 2014 operating performance was negatively impacted in part by severe weather conditions at our hubs as well as the September 2014 fire at the FAA’s Chicago Air Route Traffic Control Center, which caused significant flight delays and cancellations. We reported the following combined operating statistics to the DOT for mainline operations for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a)  Represents the combined historical operating statistics for American and US Airways.  

 (b)  Percentage of reported flight operations arriving on time as defined by the DOT.  

 (c)  Percentage of scheduled flight operations completed.  

 (d)  Rate of mishandled baggage reports per 1,000 passengers.  

 (e)  Rate of customer complaints filed with the DOT per 100,000 enplanements.  

Frequent Flyer Programs  

American and US Airways currently run two frequent flyer programs, AAdvantage® and Dividend Miles, respectively, which were established to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. We believe that these programs are one of our competitive strengths. The AAdvantage and Dividend Miles programs benefit from a growing base of members with desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect AAdvantage and Dividend Miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional miles. AAdvantage and Dividend Miles members earn mileage credits by flying on American, US Airways, the American Eagle and US Airways Express carriers, the third-party regional carriers and other participating airlines or by using services of other participants in these programs. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free or upgraded travel on American, US Airways, the American Eagle carriers or other participating airlines, or for other awards. Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. Most travel awards are subject to capacity-controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months.  

American and US Airways sell mileage credits and related services to other participants in the AAdvantage and Dividend Miles programs. There are over 1,000 program participants, including leading credit card issuers (Citibank and BarclaycardUS), hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies. We believe that program participants benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of their members, which translates into incremental and recurring streams of revenues for us. Under our agreements with AAdvantage members and program participants, we reserve the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months’ notice. We also reserve the right to terminate the Dividend Miles program or portions of the program at any time. Program rules, partners, special offers, awards and requisite mileage levels for awards are subject to change. As of December 31, 2014, AAdvantage and Dividend Miles had approximately 809.0 billion outstanding award miles. During 2014, AAdvantage and Dividend Miles issued approximately 287.1 billion miles, of which approximately 61% were sold to program participants. See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for more information on AAdvantage and Dividend Miles.  

We and other participating airline partners limit the number of seats per flight that are available for redemption by award recipients by using various inventory management techniques. We charge various fees for issuing awards dependent upon destination and booking method and for issuing awards within 21 days of the travel date.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Effective January 7, 2014, AAdvantage and Dividend Miles members can earn and redeem miles when traveling across either airline’s network. All travel on eligible tickets on both airlines will count toward qualification for elite status in the customer’s program of choice. Elite members of each airline can enjoy select reciprocal benefits of both the AAdvantage and Dividend Miles programs, including First and Business Class check-in, priority security and priority boarding, complimentary access to Preferred Seats, priority baggage delivery, and checked bags at no charge, consistent with the current baggage policies for each carrier.  

We plan to complete integration of the Dividend Miles program into American’s AAdvantage program in the second quarter of 2015, creating one of the largest airline loyalty programs in the world.  

Ticket Distribution  

Passengers can book tickets for travel on American or US Airways through several distribution channels including their direct websites (www.aa.com and www.usairways.com), our reservations centers and third-party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport), conventional travel agents and online travel agents (e.g., Expedia, Orbitz and Travelocity). To remain competitive, we will need to successfully manage our distribution costs and rights, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of third-party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “We rely on third-party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels.”  

Seasonality and Other Factors  

Due to the greater demand for air and leisure travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. General economic conditions, fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Accordingly, the results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year.  

Unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2014 is included in Note 20 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 17 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B.  

Available Information  

The SEC allows AAG and American to incorporate information by reference into this Form 10-K. This means that AAG and American can disclose important information to you by referring you to another document filed separately with the SEC. Any information incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K is considered to be a part of this Form 10-K, except for any information that is superseded by information that is included directly in this Form 10-K or incorporated by reference subsequent to the date of this Form 10-K. AAG and American do not incorporate the contents of their website into this Form 10-K.  

A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are available free of charge at www.aa.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC and at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.  

AAG has made and expects to make public disclosures of certain information regarding AAG and its subsidiaries to investors and the general public by means of social media sites, including, but not limited to, Facebook and Twitter and a website maintained by us to provide information regarding AAG’s reorganization  

21  

Table of Contents 

 pursuant to the Plan. Investors are encouraged to (i) join American’s circle (@AmericanAir) on Twitter, (ii) “like” American (www.facebook.com/AmericanAirlines) on its Facebook page, (iii) follow American (www.google.com/+americanairlines) on Google+; (iv) follow American (www.instagram.com/americanair) on Instagram; (v) follow American (www.linkedin.com/company/american-airlines) on LinkedIn; (vi) subscribe to American (www.youtube.com/user/americanairlines) on YouTube; and (vii) visit www.amrcaseinfo.com for updated information regarding the Plan. Neither AAG nor American incorporates the contents of its social media posts or websites into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

22  

Table of Contents 

GLOSSARY OF TERMS  

“2011 Plan” means the US Airways Group 2011 Incentive Award Plan.  

“2013 Citicorp Credit Facility” means the $1.6 billion term loan facility provided for by the loan agreement, as amended, entered into May 23, 2013 among US Airways, certain affiliates of US Airways and certain lenders.  

“2013 Credit Agreement” means the Credit and Guaranty Agreement entered into on June 27, 2013 among American, AAG and certain lenders, as amended.  

“2013 Credit Facilities” means the 2013 Revolving Facility and 2013 Term Loan Facility provided for by the 2013 Credit Agreement.  

“2013 Plan” means AAG 2013 Incentive Award Plan.  

“2013 Revolving Facility” means the $1.4 billion revolving credit facility provided for by the 2013 Credit Agreement.  

“2013 Term Loan Facility” means the $1.9 billion term loan facility provided for under the 2013 Credit Agreement.  

“2014 Credit Agreement” means the Credit and Guaranty Agreement entered into on October 10, 2014 among AAG, American, US Airways Group, US Airways and certain lenders.  

“2014 Credit Facilities” means the 2014 Revolving Facility and the 2014 Term Loan Facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement.  

“2014 EETC Aircraft” means the 17 aircraft owned by American for which certain financing activities, including the issuance of $957 million aggregate face amount of Series 2014-1 Class A and Class B EETCs, were undertaken in September 2014.  

“2014 Revolving Facility” means the $400 million revolving credit facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement.  

“2014 Term Loan Facility” means the $750 million term loan facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement.  

“5.50% senior notes” means the 5.50% Senior Notes due 2019.  

“6.125% senior notes” means the 6.125% Senior Notes due 2018.  

“AAdvantage” means the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program.  

“AAdvantage Loan” means the arrangement made in 2009 under which Citibank loaned American $1.0 billion that could be repaid either in AAdvantage miles under American’s AAdvantage program or in cash.  

“AAG” means American Airlines Group Inc. (formerly named AMR Corporation).  

“AAG Common Stock” means AAG’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share.  

23  

Table of Contents 

“AAG Series A Preferred Stock” means AAG’s Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, with a stated value $25.00 per share, and issued in accordance with the Plan.  

“ABA” means American Beacon Advisors, Inc.  

“ABO” means accumulated benefit obligation.  

“AFA” means Association of Flight Attendants-CWA.  

“Air Wisconsin” means Air Wisconsin Airlines Corporation.  

“ALPA” means Air Line Pilots Association.  

“American” means American Airlines, Inc.  

“American Eagle” means American Eagle Airlines, Inc.  

“AMR” means AMR Corporation and is used to reference AAG prior to December 9, 2013.  

“AMT” means alternative minimum tax.  

“ANCA” means Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990.  

“APA” means Allied Pilots Association.  

“APBO” means accumulated postretirement benefit obligation.  

“APFA” means Association of Professional Flight Attendants.  

“ASC” means the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.  

“ASIF” means Aviation Security Infrastructure Fee.  

“ASM” means available seat mile and is a basic measure of production. One ASM represents one seat flown one mile.  

“ASU” means Accounting Standards Update.  

“ATC” means air traffic control.  

“Average stage length” means the average of the distances flown on each segment of every route.  

“Aviation Act” means subtitle VII of Title 49 of the United States Code, as amended.  

“Aviation Security Act” means the Aviation and Transportation Security Act enacted in November 2001.  

“Bankruptcy Code” means Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code.  

“Bankruptcy Court” means the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.  

“Block hours” means the hours measured from the moment an aircraft first moves under its own power, including taxi time, for the purposes of flight until the aircraft is docked at the next point of landing and its power is shut down.  

24  

Table of Contents 

“Bylaws” means AAG’s Amended and Restated Bylaws.  

“CAA” means the Clean Air Act.  

“CASM” means operating cost per available seat mile and is equal to operating expenses divided by ASMs.  

“CBAs” means collective bargaining agreements.  

“CERCLA” or the “Superfund Act” means Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act.  

“Certificate of Incorporation” means AAG’s Restated Certificate of Incorporation.  

“Chapter 11 Cases” means the voluntary petitions for relief filed on November 29, 2011 by the Debtors.  

“Chautauqua” means Chautauqua Airlines, Inc.  

“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

“Company” means AAG and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

“Confirmation Order” means the confirmation order entered by the Bankruptcy Court October 21, 2013 in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases.  

“COSO” means the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  

“CRAF” means U.S. Civil Reserve Air Fleet.  

“CRSUs” means cash-settled restricted stock unit awards.  

“CSARs” means cash-settled stock appreciation rights.  

“CWA” means Communications Workers of America.  

“CWA-IBT” means the Airline Employees Customer Service Association, CWA-IBT.  

“DAL” means Dallas Love Field Airport.  

“DCA” means Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.  

“Debtor” means AMR Corporation.  

“Debtors” means American, and certain of AMR’s other direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries.  

“DFW” means Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.  

“Disputed Claims Reserve” means shares of AAG Common Stock held in reserve for payment to holders of disputed claims at the Effective Date.  

“Dividend Miles” means the Dividend Miles® frequent flyer program.  

“DOJ” means the U.S. Department of Justice.  

25  

Table of Contents 

“Double-Dip Unsecured Claims” means claims of all creditors holding general unsecured claims against American that are guaranteed by AAG and general unsecured claims against AAG that are guaranteed by American.  

“DOT” means the U.S. Department of Transportation.  

“EEA” means European Economic Area.  

“EETC” means enhanced equipment trust certificate.  

“Effective Date” means December 9, 2013.  

“Envoy” means Envoy Aviation Group Inc., formerly known as AMR Eagle Holding Corporation.  

“EPA” means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  

“ERISA” means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  

“Ethics Standards” means AAG’s and American’s Standards of Business Conduct.  

“ETS” means EU emissions trading scheme.  

“EU” means European Union.  

“Exchange Act” means Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

“ExpressJet” means ExpressJet, Inc.  

“FAA” means Federal Aviation Administration.  

“FASB” means the Financial Accounting Standards Board.  

“GAAP” means Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the U.S.  

“GDS” means global distribution systems.  

“GHG” means greenhouse gas.  

“IAM” means International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers.  

“IASB” means the International Accounting Standards Board.  

“IBT” means International Brotherhood of Teamsters.  

“ICAO” means International Civil Aviation Organization.  

“IFRS” means the International Financial Reporting Standards.  

“Internal Revenue Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  

26  

Table of Contents 

“JBAs” means joint business agreements.  

“JCBA” means joint collective bargaining agreement.  

“JFK” means John F. Kennedy International Airport.  

“LIBOR” means the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars.  

“London Heathrow” means London Heathrow Airport.  

“Mainline” means the operations of American and US Airways, as applicable, and excludes regional operations.  

“Merger” means the merger of Merger Sub with and into US Airways Group in accordance with the Merger Agreement.  

“Merger Agreement” means Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 13, 2013, as amended.  

“Merger Sub” means AMR Merger Sub, Inc.  

“Mesa” means Mesa Airlines, Inc.  

“NAAP” means the National Association of Airline Professionals.  

“NASDAQ” means NASDAQ Global Select Market.  

“NMB” means National Mediation Board.  

“NOL” means net operating loss.  

“NOL Carryforwards” means a deduction in any taxable year for net operating losses carried over from prior taxable years.  

“OCI” means other comprehensive income.  

“OPEB” means post-employee benefits (other than pension).  

“ORD” means Chicago O’Hare International Airport.  

“OTA” means online travel agent.  

“Passenger enplanements” means the number of passengers on board an aircraft, including local, connecting and through passengers.  

“Passenger load factor” means the percentage of available seats that are filled with revenue passengers.  

“PBO” means projected benefit obligation.  

“PEB” means Presidential Emergency Board.  

“Petition Date” means November 29, 2011, and is the date on which the Debtors filed voluntary petitions for relief in the Chapter 11 Cases.  

27  

Table of Contents 

“PFC” means passenger facility charge.  

“Piedmont” means Piedmont Airlines, Inc.  

“Plan” means the Debtors’ fourth amended joint plan of reorganization.  

“PRASM” means passenger revenue per available seat mile and is equal to passenger revenues divided by ASMs.  

“Proxy Statement” means American Airlines Group Inc.’s Proxy Statement for the 2015 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of American Airlines Group Inc.  

“PRP” means potentially responsible party.  

“PSA” means PSA Airlines, Inc.  

“RASM” means the total revenue per available seat mile and is equal to the total revenues divided by total mainline and third-party regional carrier ASMs.  

“Republic” means Republic Airline, Inc.  

“RLA” means Railway Labor Act.  

“RPM” means revenue passenger mile and is a basic measure of sales volume. One RPM represents one passenger flown one mile.  

“RSUs” means restricted stock units.  

“S&P” means Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC.  

“Sabre” means Sabre Holdings Corporation, Sabre Inc. and Sabre Travel International Limited.  

“SARs” means stock-settled stock appreciation rights.  

“SEC” means Securities and Exchange Commission.  

“Second Circuit” means the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  

“Section 382” means Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.  

“Securities Act” means Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  

“Senior Secured Notes” means 7.50% Senior Secured Notes due 2016.  

“Single-Dip Equity Obligations” means obligations owed to holders of Single-Dip Unsecured Claims.  

“SkyWest” means SkyWest Airlines, Inc.  

“Slots” means landing and take-off rights and authorizations and other facilities.  

“Stabilization Act” means Air Transportation Safety and System Stabilization Act.  

“Standards of Business Conduct” means AAG’s code of ethics.  

28  

Table of Contents 

“Tranche B-1” means $1.0 billion of tranche B-1 term loans that are part of the 2013 Citicorp Credit Facility.  

“Tranche B-2” means $600 million of tranche B-2 term loans that are part of the 2013 Citicorp Credit Facility.  

“TSA” means Transportation Security Administration.  

“TWU” means Transport Workers Union.  

“US Airways” means US Airways, Inc.  

“US Airways Express” means the trade name under which AAG offers certain regional flights under arrangements with certain of its subsidiaries and other third-party regional carriers.  

“US Airways Group” means US Airways Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.  

“US Airways Group Code” means US Airways Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.  

“US Airways Group Common Stock” means US Airways Group common stock, par value $0.01 per share.  

“Wright Amendment Reform Act” means Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006.  

“WSG” means International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines.  

“Yield” means a measure of airline revenue derived by dividing passenger revenue by RPMs.  

29  

Table of Contents 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS