Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

Our investment portfolio, consisting of fixed income securities and money market funds that we hold on an available-for-sale basis, was $1,001.7 million as of March 31, 2008, and $1,278.4 million as of March 31, 2007. These securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. We have the ability to hold our fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, we would not expect to recognize any material adverse impact in income or cash flows if market interest rates increase. The following table provides information about our available-for-sale securities that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. We have aggregated our available-for-sale securities for presentation purposes since they are all very similar in nature (dollars in thousands): 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

We have international operations and are thus subject to foreign currency rate fluctuations. To date, our exposure related to exchange rate volatility has not been material to our operating results. Approximately 99% of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars. We maintain hedges related to our foreign currency exposure of our net investment in a foreign operation as needed. As of March 31, 2008, there were $2.4 million of foreign currency hedges outstanding. There were no hedges outstanding as of March 31, 2007 and the amount of the hedges outstanding as of March 31, 2006 was immaterial. If foreign currency rates fluctuate by 15% from the rates at March 31, 2008 and 2007, the effect on our financial position and results of operation would be immaterial. 

Our investment in marketable equity securities at March 31, 2008 consists of shares of common stock, the value of which is determined by the closing price of such shares on the respective markets on which the shares are traded as of the 

38  

balance sheet date. These investments are classified as trading securities and accounted for under the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The market value of these investments was approximately $12.4 million at March 31, 2008 compared to our adjusted cost basis of approximately $12.2 million. The value of our investment in marketable equity securities would be materially impacted if there were a significant change in the market price of the shares. A hypothetical 30% favorable or unfavorable change in the stock price compared to the stock price at March 31, 2008 would have affected the value of our investment in marketable equity securities by less than $4 million. Additionally, we have sold put options on one of the trading securities, which are recorded as an accrued liability, and are marked to market value. A decline in the stock price of the underlying security prior to the expiration date of the puts would cause an increase to the liability, which would result in a charge to our results of operations, and could result in the put being exercised by the holder. If the put is exercised by the holder, we could be required to pay up to $17.3 million for additional shares of the common stock, at a price potentially in excess of the then fair market value of the common stock. A hypothetical 30% unfavorable change in the stock price of the trading security on which we have sold the puts, compared to the stock price at March 31, 2008 could potentially result in the puts being exercised and would result in our paying $17.3 million to acquire the shares of common stock. The stock would then be marked to market value, reducing the value of our investment by an additional $3.4 million. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 15(a)(1) for additional information about our investments in marketable equity securities.  

During the normal course of business we are routinely subjected to a variety of market risks, examples of which include, but are not limited to, interest rate movements and foreign currency fluctuations, as we discuss in this Item 7A, and collectability of accounts receivable. We continuously assess these risks and have established policies and procedures to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. Although we do not anticipate any material losses in these risk areas, no assurance can be made that material losses will not be incurred in these areas in the future. 

  Item 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA