Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS     

When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. 

Our quarterly operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include: 

      ·   changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers;     

      ·   levels of inventories at our customers;     

      ·   the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory;     

      ·   changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields;     

      ·   our ability to secure sufficient assembly and testing capacity;     

      ·   availability of raw materials and equipment;     

      ·   competitive developments including pricing pressures;     

      ·   the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter;     

      ·   the level of sell-through of our products through distribution;     

   · fluctuations in the mix of products;  

      ·   changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality;     

      ·   constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers’ ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers;     

      ·   costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues;     

      ·   disruptions in our business or our customers’ businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns or disruptions in the transportation system;     

      ·   property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance; and     

      ·   general economic, industry or political conditions in the United States or internationally.     

We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of future performance. In future periods our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. 

10 

Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. 

The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. Lower capacity utilization results in certain costs being charged directly to expense and lower gross margins. 

We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments. 

Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog and orders received in that quarter for shipment in that quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduces our backlog visibility on future product shipments. Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results may suffer. 

Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. 

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products;     

      ·   our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies;     

      ·   the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications;     

      ·   product introductions by our competitors;     

      ·   the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market;     

      ·   our ability to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices;     

      ·   our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights;     

      ·   the quality of our customer service and our ability to address the needs of our customers; and     

      ·   general market and economic conditions.     

Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog and interface products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM and non-proprietary analog and interface products have declined over time. 

We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, due primarily to competitive conditions. We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. We have experienced in the past and expect to continue to experience in the future varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM and non-proprietary analog products. 

We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. 

11 

Our business is dependent on selling through distributors. 

Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2008 and 65% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2007 and 2006. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, 11% of our net sales in fiscal 2007 and 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2006. Our two largest distributors accounted for approximately 19% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, 21% of our net sales in fiscal 2007 and 24% of our net sales in fiscal 2006. We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. 

On February 4, 2008, we terminated our distributor Arrow Electronics and announced that we had partnered with Avnet Electronics Marketing and Future Electronics to provide our global distribution services. We believe that these two global distributors combined with our regional and specialty distributor partners will have a positive long-term impact in supporting the technical and commercial support needs of our customers. Our net sales of product sold by Arrow Electronics in the year ended March 31, 2008 represented approximately 7% of our net sales. Although we do not believe the termination of Arrow Electronics will have a material adverse impact on our net sales, there can be no assurance as to what the long-term or short-term impact on us will be as a result of these recent actions. 

During fiscal 2006, we reduced the gross margin that certain of our distributors earn when they sell our products. We reduced these distributors’ gross margins because we believed these distributors did not have sufficient technical sales resources to properly address the marketplace for our products. Since fiscal 2006, we have added over 150 technical sales employees and added new regional distributors throughout our worldwide sales organization to address the support requirements for both our OEM and distribution customers. Although these actions have not had a material adverse impact on the overall effectiveness of our distribution channel, there can be no assurance that there will not be an adverse impact in the future. 

During an industry and/or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products, and a decrease in sell-through by our distributors. The decline in sell-through of our products by, loss of, or a disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our net sales in a given period and could result in an increase in inventory returns. 

Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. 

Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   proper new product selection;     

      ·   timely completion and introduction of new product designs;     

      ·   availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and     

      ·   market acceptance of our customers’ end products.     

Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results. 

Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures. We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. 

We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel is intense in our market. 

Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering and other personnel. The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel is intense. 

We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. As a result of the anticipated impact that the adoption of SFAS No. 123R in our first fiscal quarter of 2007 would have on our results of operations, we changed our equity compensation program during fiscal 2006. We now grant fewer equity-based shares per employee and the type of equity instrument is generally restricted stock units rather than stock options. This change in our equity compensation program may make it more difficult for us to attract or retain qualified management and engineering personnel, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 

12 

We are dependent on several contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us. 

We use several contractors located in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. We also rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. Although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. 

Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operations or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. Further, procurement of required products and services from third parties is done by purchase order and contracts. If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner or at all, and such arrangements, if any, may not be on favorable terms to us. In such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs, decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 

We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. 

Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various raw materials and equipment that meet our standards. The raw materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacements parts. An interruption of any raw materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. 

Our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business may be subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. However, fluctuations in our overall business in certain recent periods and semiconductor industry conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and has made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. The industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. 

 We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. 

We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. If we are not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our product line or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in value of inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. 

It is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the performance or use of our products. These claims may be due to products nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, and unexpected end customer system issues due to the interaction with our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. We could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including costs related to writing off the value of inventory of defective products; recalling defective products; providing support services, product replacements, or modification to products; the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or delay in recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages.  

13 

Because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, these expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. While we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. We do have product liability insurance, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. Costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. 

Further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of their systems could cause damage to property or persons. We may be subject to customer claims if our products, or interactions with our products, cause the system failures. We will face increased exposure to customer claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures caused by our products. 

Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. 

Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our inventions and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In addition, our existing patents and any new patents that are issued may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which can require significant financial and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. 

We do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers. 

We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. Even though we have approximately 60,000 end customers and our ten largest customers made up approximately 9% of our total revenue for the year ended March 31, 2008, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse financial impact on our revenue and profits. 

Further, as the practice has become more commonplace in the industry, we have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. Under these contracts we commit to supply quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates. If we become unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality related issues. Under these contracts, we may be liable for the costs the customer has incurred. While we try to limit such liabilities, if they should arise, there may be a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. 

Business interruptions could harm our business. 

Operations at any of our manufacturing facilities, or at any of our wafer fabrication or test and assembly subcontractors, may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control, including work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, fire, earthquake, floods, or other natural disasters. If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors’ facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis. If this occurs, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. In addition, business interruption insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. 

We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. 

Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2008, approximately 75% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. During fiscal 2007, approximately 74% of our net sales were made to foreign customers. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand, which has experienced periods of political uncertainty in the past. We also use various foreign contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand. 

14 

Fluctuations in foreign currency could impact our operating results. We use forward currency exchange contracts to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures. Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the remeasurement of non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  

Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods in inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   political, social and economic instability;     

      ·   public health conditions;     

      ·   trade restrictions and changes in tariffs;     

      ·   import and export license requirements and restrictions;     

      ·   difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;     

      ·   employment regulations;     

      ·   disruptions in international transport or delivery;     

      ·   difficulties in collecting receivables;     

      ·   economic slowdown in the worldwide markets served by us; and     

      ·   potentially adverse tax consequences.     

If any of these risks materialize, our sales could decrease and/or our operating results could suffer. 

A portion of our short-term investment portfolio is invested in auction rate securities. Recent auctions for these securities have failed and our investment in these securities is not liquid. If the issuer is unable to successfully close future auctions or their credit rating deteriorates, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of our investment through an impairment charge to earnings. 

At March 31, 2008, $59.7 million of our investment portfolio was invested in auction rate securities. Historically, the carrying value of auction rate securities approximated fair value due to the frequent resetting of the interest rates. If an auction fails for amounts we have invested, our investment will not be liquid. With the recent liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, our auction rate securities have experienced multiple failed auctions. In September 2007 and February 2008, auctions for $24.9 million and $34.8 million, respectively, of the original purchase value of our investments in auction rate securities had failed. While we earn interest on these investments based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indexes, the estimated market value for a portion of these auction rate securities no longer approximates the original purchase value. 

The $24.9 million in failed auctions during September 2007 are all either AA or AAA rated by Standard & Poors and all but $2.5 million of the securities possesses credit enhancement in the form of insurance for principal and interest. The underlying characteristics of $22.4 million of these auction rate securities relate to servicing statutory requirements in the life insurance industry and $2.5 million relate to a specialty finance company that has a AAA rating from Standard & Poors and the issue we own has a AA rating from Standard & Poors. The $24.9 million in failed auctions have continued to fail through May 23, 2008. As a result, we will not be able to access such funds until a future auction on these investments is successful. The fair value of the failed auction rate securities has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. Based on the estimated values, we concluded these investments were other than temporarily impaired and recognized an impairment charge on these investments of $2.4 million during fiscal 2008. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an impairment charge to earnings. 

The $34.8 million in failed auctions during February 2008 are investments in student loan-backed municipal bond auction rate securities. Based upon our evaluation of available information, we believe these investments are of high credit quality, as all of the investments carry at least two AAA credit ratings and are largely backed by the federal government (Federal Family Education Loan Program). The fair value of the failed auction rate securities has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. 

We continue to monitor the market for auction rate securities and consider its impact (if any) on the fair market value of our investments. If the market conditions deteriorate further, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in other comprehensive income or impairment charges. We intend and have the ability to hold these auction rate securities until the market recovers as we do not anticipate having to sell these securities to fund the operations of our business. We believe that, based on our current unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities balances, the current lack of liquidity in the markets for auction rate securities will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow or our ability to fund our operations. 

15 

Interruptions in information technology systems could adversely affect our business. 

We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant system or network disruption, including but not limited to computer viruses, security breaches, or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. We have implemented measures to manage our risks related to such disruptions, but such disruptions could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In addition, we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. 

The occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. 

We have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some risks and obligations. In these circumstances, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure certain risks than to pay the increased premium costs in place since the disruption in the insurance market after the events of September 11, 2001. The risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to, certain property, product defects, political risks, and patent infringement. Should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, result of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. 

We are subject to stringent environmental regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. 

We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in our products and manufacturing process. Our failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in the imposition of fines, suspension of production or a cessation of operations. Such environmental regulations have required us in the past and could require us in the future to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Any failure by us to control the use of or adequately restrict the discharge of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. Environmental problems may occur that could subject us to future costs or liabilities. 

Over the past few years, there has been an expansion in environmental laws focusing on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances in electronic products. For example, the EU RoHS Directive provided that beginning July 1, 2006, electronic products sold into Europe were required to meet stringent chemical restrictions, including the absence of lead. Other countries, such as the United States, China and Korea, have enacted or may enact laws or regulations similar to those of the EU. These and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture and sell our products. Over the last several years, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; the recycling of electronic products; and the reduction in quantity and the recycling of packaging materials have expanded significantly. It may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant materials to meet customers’ needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. We may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold inventory that is not saleable as a result of changes to regulations. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of hazardous substances in our products and energy efficiency measures. 

Regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. 

A significant portion of our sales are made outside of the United States through exporting and re-exporting of products. In addition to local jurisdictions’ export regulations, our U.S. manufactured products or products based on U.S. technology are subject to Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”) when exported and re-exported to and from all international jurisdictions. Licenses or proper license exceptions may be required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. Non-compliance with the EAR or other export regulations can result in penalties including denial of export privileges, fines, criminal penalties, and seizure of products. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business including our ability to meet our net sales and earnings targets. 

The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

We are subject to continued examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities for fiscal year 2002 and later. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. 

16 

The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. 

The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: 

      ·   quarterly variations in our operating results and the operating results of other technology companies;     

      ·   actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors;     

      ·   changes in analysts’ estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations;     

      ·   changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance;     

      ·   general conditions in the semiconductor industry; and     

      ·   worldwide economic and financial conditions.     

In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices for many high technology companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors may harm the market price of our common stock. 

In the event we make acquisitions, we may not be able to successfully integrate such acquisitions or attain the anticipated benefits. 

While acquisitions do not represent a major part of our growth strategy, from time to time we may consider strategic acquisitions if such opportunities arise. Any transactions that we complete may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired business, or possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process. In addition, we may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, and this may lead to operational inefficiencies. 

We have not historically maintained substantial levels of indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. 

As a result of our sale of $1.15 billion of 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures in December 2007, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term debt than we have maintained in the past. Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our debentures or any other future indebtedness that we incur on or before the maturity of the debentures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. 

Conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. 

The conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. Upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. If upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. If the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver in cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of one thousand dollars principal amount (conversion spread). There would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. The conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. Any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. 

There will likely be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings which may have an adverse impact on our future financial condition and results of operations.  

There will likely be potential new accounting pronouncements of regulatory rulings, which may have an adverse impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. For example, in May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FSP APB 14-1), that alters the accounting treatment for convertible debt that allows for either mandatory or optional cash settlements, including our outstanding debentures. The FSP requires the issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s economic interest cost.  

17  

Further, the FSP will require bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component as equity, and then accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to result in the “economic interest cost” being reflected in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. In issuing this FSP, the FASB emphasized that the FSP will be applied to the terms of the instruments as they exited for the time periods existed, therefore, the application of the FSP would be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. The FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and will require retrospective application. We will be required to implement the proposed standard during the first quarter of fiscal 2010, which begins on April 1, 2009. Although FSP APB 14-1 will have no impact on our actual past or future cash flows, it would require us to record a significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is amortized. In addition, if our convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity, any unamortized debt discount would result in a loss on extinguishment. As a result, there could be a material adverse impact on our results of operations and earnings per share. These impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of our debentures.  

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 

None. 

Item 2. PROPERTIES