PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS.  

References in this report to “we”, “us” and “our” are to Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. (“MMC”) and one or more of its subsidiaries, as the context requires.  

GENERAL   

MMC is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy and human capital. It is the parent company of a number of the world’s leading risk experts and specialty consultants, including: Marsh, the insurance broker, intermediary and risk advisor; Guy Carpenter, the risk and reinsurance specialist; Kroll, the risk consulting firm; Mercer, the provider of HR and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, the management consultancy. With approximately 56,000 employees worldwide and 2007 consolidated revenue exceeding $11 billion, MMC provides analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in more than 100 countries.  

MMC conducts business through three operating segments:  

   n    Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management activities (risk advice, risk transfer and risk prevention and mitigation solutions) as well as insurance and reinsurance broking and services. We conduct business in this segment through Marsh and Guy Carpenter. This segment also includes Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Holdings.  

   n    Consulting includes human resource consulting and related outsourcing and investment services, and specialized management and economic consulting services. We conduct business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.  

   n    Risk Consulting and Technology includes risk consulting and related investigative, quantitative, intelligence, financial, security and technology services. We conduct business in this segment through Kroll.  

We describe our operating segments in further detail below. We provide financial information about our segments in our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

1  

Table of Contents 

OUR BUSINESSES  

Risk and Insurance Services  

Risk and Insurance Services, comprising Marsh and Guy Carpenter, is MMC’s largest business segment. This segment generated 49% of MMC’s total operating segments revenue in 2007 and employs approximately 29,000 colleagues worldwide. This segment also includes Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Holdings.  

Marsh  

Marsh generated 40% of MMC’s total operating segments revenue in 2007. Operating through a global network of approximately 400 offices in over 100 countries, Marsh is a world leader in delivering risk and insurance services and solutions. More than 26,000 Marsh colleagues provide risk management, insurance broking, consulting and insurance program management services to a wide range of businesses, government entities and professional service organizations around the world. Marsh’s clients vary by size, industry, geography and risk exposure.  

Client Relationships. In its main risk consulting and insurance broking practice, Marsh employs a team approach to address its clients’ individual risk management and insurance needs. Each client relationship is coordinated by a client executive who assembles the resources needed to analyze, measure and manage the client’s various risks. The client executive draws from colleagues who specialize in specific industries (e.g., financial services, telecom, life sciences, health care, construction, transportation) and/or risk specialty areas (e.g., property, casualty, workers compensation, environmental, political risk, financial and professional liability).  

Risk Analysis. Marsh’s risk and insurance professionals identify, analyze and estimate risks that arise from client operations and assets. These client risks may relate to physical damage to property, various liability exposures, and other factors that could result in financial loss, as well as large and complex risks that require access to world insurance and financial markets. Marsh professionals address traditional property and liability risks and a widening range of financial, strategic and operating exposures, including those relating to employment practices, the development and operation of technology resources, intellectual property, the remediation of environmental pollution, mergers and acquisitions, the interruption of revenue streams derived from leasing and credit operations and political risks.  

Risk Advice and Consulting. Marsh professionals use a risk-based approach to help clients identify critical functions of their businesses, analyze exposures and evaluate existing risk treatment practices and strategies. Marsh advises clients in structuring programs for retaining, mitigating, financing, and transferring risk in combinations that vary according to the client’s particular needs and circumstances. In addition to placing insurance, Marsh might help a client develop risk management strategies that include loss-control services (such as business continuity planning, ergonomic and workplace safety programs and loss information management), or alternative risk financing (such as the securitization of risk, the placement of risk with the capital markets and self-insured programs). Marsh’s professionals help clients implement their risk management and mitigation strategies by negotiating and executing transactions with the worldwide insurance and capital markets, establishing and managing specialized insurance companies owned by clients (sometimes known as “captive insurance companies”) and implementing various loss-control programs.  

Global Consumer Practice. In addition to its main risk management and broking practice described above, Marsh operates a global consumer practice that provides advice, broking, intermediary and program management services to corporate and association clients globally and to individual and small business clients primarily in the United States. Marsh professionals in this practice design, market and administer a variety of insurance and insurance-related products and services, such as consumer property and casualty programs and life insurance, purchased by an association’s or professional group’s members or provided to employees of corporate clients as part of a voluntary   

2  

Table of Contents 

 payroll deduction program. Other areas of the consumer practice include: private client services, which provides specialized risk and insurance programs to high-net-worth individuals and family offices; Marsh financial services, which offers key-person and executive benefit programs, as well as planning and wealth preservation solutions to affluent individuals; and a small commercial practice, which offers standardized insurance programs to small businesses and franchise operations.  

Support Services. Marsh subsidiaries also provide insurance support services such as claims collection, claims advocacy, injury management, claims administration, and other insurance- and risk- related services. Marsh provides technological support to risk management professionals and the property & casualty industry by delivering integrated software and services that support risk management, claims, administration, compliance management, bill review and data management.  

Subsidiaries in the Risk and Insurance Services segment, under various names apart from Marsh, provide underwriting management services to insurers in the United States and Canada, primarily for professional liability coverages.  

Guy Carpenter  

Guy Carpenter generated 8% of MMC’s total operating segments revenue in 2007. More than 2,500 Guy Carpenter professionals create and execute reinsurance and risk management solutions for clients worldwide, by providing risk assessment analytics, actuarial services, highly specialized product knowledge, and trading relationships with reinsurance markets. Client services also include contract and claims management and fiduciary accounting. Run-off services and other reinsurance and insurance administration solutions are offered through Guy Carpenter affiliates on a fee basis.  

Acting as a broker or intermediary on all classes of reinsurance, Guy Carpenter places two main types of property and casualty reinsurance: treaty reinsurance, which involves the transfer of a portfolio of risks; and facultative reinsurance, which entails the transfer of part or all of the coverage provided by a single insurance policy.  

Guy Carpenter also provides reinsurance services in a broad range of specialty practice areas, including accident and health, agriculture, alternative risk transfer, environmental, general casualty, investment banking, life and annuity, marine and energy, professional liability, program manager solutions, property, retrocessional reinsurance (reinsurance between reinsurers), structured risk, surety, terror risk, and workers compensation. In addition, Guy Carpenter provides its clients with numerous reinsurance-related services, such as actuarial, enterprise risk management, financial and regulatory consulting and portfolio analysis. Guy Carpenter’s Instrat® unit delivers advanced risk assessment analytics, catastrophe modeling and exposure management tools to assist clients in the reinsurance decision-making process.  

Guy Carpenter offers run-off services for inactive clients in North America and elsewhere through Reinsurance Solutions LLC and Reinsurance Solutions Limited, respectively. These affiliates also offer reinsurance and insurance administration solutions on a fee basis.  

Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Holdings  

MMC owns investments in private equity funds and insurance and financial services firms through its subsidiary Marsh & McLennan Risk Capital Holdings (“Risk Capital Holdings”). Risk Capital Holdings generated 1% of MMC’s total operating segments revenue in 2007.  

Compensation for Services in Risk and Insurance Services  

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees paid by clients and commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiations with clients. For billing and other administrative services, Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others.  

3  

Table of Contents 

We also receive certain investment-related revenues from Risk Capital Holdings. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk and Insurance Services segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.  

Consulting  

Consulting is MMC’s second-largest business segment, generating 43% of total operating segments revenue in 2007 and employing approximately 22,000 colleagues worldwide. MMC conducts business in this segment through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group.  

Mercer  

With more than 18,000 professionals active in 41 countries, Mercer is a leading global provider of human resource consulting and related outsourcing and investment services. Clients include a majority of the companies in the Fortune 1000 and FTSE 100, as well as medium- and small-market organizations. Mercer generated 30% of MMC’s total operating segments revenue in 2007.  

Mercer operates in four areas:  

Retirement & Investments. The lines of business within Retirement & Investments work together to offer clients a full suite of retirement advice and solutions.  

Mercer provides a wide range of strategic and compliance-related retirement services and solutions to corporate, governmental and institutional clients. Mercer assists clients worldwide in the design and governance of defined benefit, defined contribution and hybrid retirement plans. Mercer’s financial approach to retirement services enables clients to consider the benefits, accounting, funding and investment aspects of plan design and management in the context of business objectives and governance requirements.  

Mercer also provides investment consulting services to the fiduciaries of pension funds, foundations, endowments and other investors in more than 35 countries. Mercer advises clients on all stages of the institutional investment process, from strategy, structure and implementation to ongoing portfolio management.  

Mercer’s dedicated investment management business provides multi-manager investment solutions, primarily for retirement plan assets, to institutional investors (such as retirement plan sponsors and trustees), and to individual investors (in Australia and prospectively in other countries). These solutions include “one-stop” investment advisory and asset management solutions for plan sponsors, bundled services for frozen defined benefit plans utilizing our expertise in liability-driven investment and actuarial techniques, and personal wealth solutions. The investment management business offers a diverse range of investment options to meet a full spectrum of risk/return preferences and manages 85 investment vehicles across a range of investment strategies in four geographic regions (US, Canada, Europe and Australia/New Zealand). As of December 31, 2007, Mercer’s investment management business had assets under management of over $18 billion worldwide.  

Health & Benefits. In its Health & Benefits business, Mercer assists public and private sector employers in the design, management and administration of employee health care programs; compliance with local benefits-related regulations; and the establishment of health and welfare insurance coverage for employees. Mercer provides advice and solutions to employers on: total health management strategies; global health brokerage solutions; vendor performance and audit; life and disability management; and measurement of healthcare provider performance. These services are provided through traditional consulting as well as commission-based brokerage services in connection with the selection of insurance companies and healthcare providers.  

Talent. The lines of business within Talent work together to offer consulting services and related content products to help clients optimize workforce performance.  

4  

Table of Contents 

Mercer’s human capital business advises organizations on the engagement, management and rewarding of employees; the design of executive remuneration programs; and improvement of human resource (HR) effectiveness.  

Through proprietary survey data and decision support tools, Mercer’s information products solutions business provides clients with human capital information and analytical capabilities to improve strategic human capital decision making.  

Mercer’s communication business helps clients to plan and implement HR programs and other organizational change in order to maximize employee engagement, drive desired employee behavior and achieve improvements in business performance.  

Outsourcing. Through its Outsourcing business, Mercer provides benefits outsourcing to clients globally. By delivering services across benefit domains and international borders, Mercer helps clients more efficiently manage their benefits programs. Mercer’s Outsourcing business offers total benefits outsourcing, including administration and delivery for wealth, health and flexible benefits; total retirement outsourcing, including administration and delivery for retirement benefits; and stand-alone services for defined benefit administration, defined contribution administration, health benefits administration and flexible benefits programs.  

Oliver Wyman Group  

With over 3,500 professionals based in 18 countries, Oliver Wyman Group delivers advisory services to clients through three operating units, each of which is a leader in its field: Oliver Wyman; Lippincott; and NERA Economic Consulting. Oliver Wyman Group generated 13% of MMC’s total operating segments revenue in 2007.  

Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consulting firm. Oliver Wyman’s consultants specialize by industry and functional area, allowing clients to benefit from both deep sector knowledge and specialized expertise in strategy, operations, risk management, organizational transformation, and leadership development. Industry groups include:  

   n    Automotive;  

   n    Aviation, Aerospace and Defense;  

   n    Communications, Media and Technology;  

   n    Energy;  

   n    Financial services, including corporate and institutional banking, insurance, and retail and business banking;  

   n    Industrial products and services;  

   n    Health and life sciences;  

   n    Retail and consumer products; and  

   n    Surface transportation.  

Oliver Wyman overlays its industry knowledge with expertise in the following functional specializations:  

   n    Business Transformation. Oliver Wyman advises clients who face major strategic discontinuities and risks on business model transformation.  

   n    Delta Organization & Leadership. The Delta business provides consulting services and customized programs to help CEOs and other senior corporate leaders improve their individual and organizational capabilities. Services include organizational design and transformation; enterprise leadership and board effectiveness; and the Executive Learning Center, which provides customized executive education programs to help organizations develop the leaders they need to compete and grow.  

5  

Table of Contents 

   n    Finance and Risk. Oliver Wyman works with CFOs and other senior finance and risk management executives of leading corporations and financial institutions to help them meet the challenges presented by their evolving roles and the needs of their organizations. Key areas of focus include risk, capital and performance measurement; performance and value-based management; and risk governance amid regulatory changes. Oliver Wyman also offers actuarial consulting services to public and private enterprises, self-insured group organizations, insurance companies, government entities, insurance regulatory agencies and other organizations.  

   n    Marketing and Sales. Oliver Wyman advises leading firms in the areas of offer/pricing optimization; product/service portfolio management; product innovation; marketing spend optimization; value-based customer management; and sales & distribution model transformation.  

   n    Operations and Technology. Oliver Wyman offers market-leading IT organization design, IT economics management, Lean Six Sigma principles and methodologies, and sourcing expertise to clients across a broad range of industries.  

   n    Strategy. Oliver Wyman is a leading provider of corporate strategy advice and solutions in the areas of growth strategy and corporate portfolio; non-organic growth and M&A; performance improvement; business design and innovation; corporate center and shared services; and strategic planning.  

Lippincott is a brand strategy and design consulting firm which advises corporations around the world in a variety of industries on corporate branding, identity and image. Lippincott has helped create some of the world’s most recognized brands.  

NERA Economic Consulting provides economic analysis and advice to public and private entities to achieve practical solutions to highly complex business and legal issues arising from competition, regulation, public policy, strategy, finance and litigation. NERA professionals operate worldwide assisting clients including corporations, governments, law firms, regulatory agencies, trade associations, and international agencies. NERA’s specialized practice areas include: antitrust; securities; complex commercial litigation; energy; environmental economics; network industries; intellectual property; product liability and mass torts; and transfer pricing.  

Compensation for Services in Consulting  

Mercer and the Oliver Wyman Group businesses are compensated for advice and services primarily through fees paid by clients. Mercer’s health & benefits business is compensated through commissions from insurance companies for the placement of insurance contracts (comprising more than half of the revenue in the health & benefits business) and consulting fees. Mercer’s discretionary investment management business and certain of Mercer’s defined contribution administration services are compensated typically through fees based on assets under administration and/or management. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in the Consulting segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.  

Risk Consulting & Technology  

MMC’s Risk Consulting and Technology segment, which conducts business through Kroll, generated 9% of MMC’s total operating segments revenue in 2007.   

Kroll is the world’s leading risk intelligence company. With more than 4,000 colleagues in 27 countries, and a worldwide network of consultants with specialized expertise, Kroll provides a wide range of consulting-based services and technology-enabled solutions to a global client base of law firms, financial institutions, corporations, non-profits, government agencies, and individuals.  

6  

Table of Contents 

Consulting and Related Services. Kroll provides consulting and related services through three business groups. Kroll’s Consulting Services Group helps clients mitigate business, financial and physical risks and achieve their legal, operational and financial objectives. Kroll’s business intelligence and investigations unit provides information gathering and analysis; investigative services; litigation support; assistance in locating misappropriated assets; and programs to protect intellectual property, prevent money laundering and ensure the integrity of vendors. Kroll’s financial advisory services unit provides a full range of forensic accounting, litigation consulting, and valuation services to help clients uncover fraud, comply with securities and corporate governance regulations, value businesses and assess financial damages for insurance claims and litigation.  

The Corporate Advisory & Restructuring Group provides professional services with the objective of maximizing the value of financially-troubled companies for the benefit of their stakeholders. Working on behalf of companies or creditors in North America and Europe, this group provides: interim and crisis management; strategic advice related to operational turnarounds, corporate finance and financial restructuring; and asset recovery and liquidation services.  

The Security Group serves clients worldwide, including multinational corporations, government agencies, high-net-worth individuals, architectural firms, and private and public sector organizations. Services include: security consulting; architectural security engineering; outsourced security operations and management; executive protection; high risk environment intelligence and protective services; crisis and kidnap response; travel safety training programs; and training programs for executives, security professionals and military personnel. The Security Group also includes Kroll’s U.S. government services business, which conducts security clearance investigations of government personnel and monitors law enforcement agencies and other public and private entities’ compliance with federal consent decrees and other government mandates.  

Technology Services. Kroll’s Technology Services unit provides technology-enabled solutions through Kroll Ontrack and Kroll Factual Data, as well as Kroll’s background screening and substance abuse testing businesses. Kroll Ontrack provides large-scale electronic and paper-based discovery, computer forensics, and data recovery solutions for companies, law firms, and government agencies. Kroll Factual Data offers information services to mortgage and consumer lending businesses, landlords, employers and other business customers in the United States. Kroll’s background screening business provides employee and vendor background investigations and identity theft services to a wide range of business and non-profit clients worldwide. The substance abuse testing business provides employee testing services to corporate, institutional and government clients in the United States, Canada and Europe.  

Compensation for Services in Risk Consulting and Technology  

Kroll receives compensation in the form of fees paid by clients. These fees are typically earned on an hourly, project, fixed fee or per-unit basis. For a more detailed discussion of revenue sources and factors affecting revenue in our Risk Consulting & Technology segment, see Part II, Item 7 (“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) of this report.  

Regulation  

MMC’s activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under United States federal and state laws, as well as laws of other countries in which MMC’s subsidiaries operate. See Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below for a discussion of how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our businesses.  

Risk and Insurance Services. While laws and regulations vary from location to location, every state of the United States and most foreign jurisdictions require insurance market intermediaries and related service providers (such as insurance brokers, agents and consultants, reinsurance brokers, managing general agents and third party administrators) to hold an individual and/or company license   

7  

Table of Contents 

 from a governmental agency or self-regulatory organization. Some jurisdictions issue licenses only to individual residents or locally-owned business entities; in this case, if MMC has no licensed subsidiary, we may maintain arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in such jurisdiction.  

Beginning in January 2005, all European Union member states were required to implement the Insurance Mediation Directive. This Directive aims to apply consistent minimum professional standards to insurance intermediaries, including a licensing system based on an assessment of factors such as professional competence, financial capacity and professional indemnity insurance. As member states of the European Union adopt regulations to comply with the Directive, our insurance intermediary operations in the European Union have become subject to enhanced regulatory requirements. In January 2005, as part of the implementation of the Directive in the United Kingdom, the power and responsibilities of the Financial Services Authority, or FSA, were expanded to include regulation of insurance and reinsurance intermediaries in the United Kingdom.  

Insurance authorities in the United States and certain other jurisdictions in which MMC’s subsidiaries do business, including the FSA in the United Kingdom, also have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations typically provide for segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them.  

Certain of MMC’s risk and insurance services activities are governed by other regulatory bodies, such as investment, securities and futures licensing authorities. In the United States, Marsh and Guy Carpenter use the services of MMC Securities Corp., a US-registered broker-dealer and investment adviser, member FINRA/SIPC, primarily in connection with investment banking-related services and advising on alternative risk financing transactions. Also in the United States, Marsh uses the services of Interlink Securities Corp., primarily in connection with variable insurance products. Guy Carpenter provides advice on securities or investments in the European Union through GC Securities Ltd., authorized and regulated by the FSA. MMC Securities Corp., Interlink Securities Corp. and GC Securities Ltd. are indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries of MMC.  

In some jurisdictions, insurance-related taxes may be due either directly from clients or from the insurance broker. In the latter case, the broker customarily looks to the client for payment.  

Consulting. Certain of Mercer’s retirement-related consulting services are subject to pension law and financial regulation in many countries, including by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, in the United States and the FSA in the United Kingdom. In addition, the trustee services, investment services (including advice to individuals on the investment of personal pension assets and assumption of discretionary investment management responsibilities) and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to investment and securities regulations in various jurisdictions. The benefits insurance consulting and brokerage services provided by Mercer and its subsidiaries and affiliates are subject to the same licensing requirements and regulatory oversight as the insurance market intermediaries described above regarding our Risk and Insurance Services businesses. In the United States, Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group use the services of MMC Securities Corp. primarily in connection with the sale of retirement and employee benefit plans, and investment banking services, respectively.  

Risk Consulting & Technology. Certain of Kroll’s risk consulting and investigative activities are licensed and regulated at the federal, state and local level in the United States and abroad. Many of these activities also involve the use of data from outside sources, including third party vendors and governmental records. As a result, changes in existing, or the implementation of new, laws and regulations, particularly relating to privacy, could interfere with Kroll’s historical access to and use of such data. Substance abuse testing laboratories operated by a Kroll subsidiary are certified on the federal level and licensed in a number of states.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Competitive Conditions  

MMC faces strong competition in all of its business segments from providers of similar products and services. MMC also encounters strong competition throughout its businesses from both public corporations and private firms in attracting and retaining qualified employees. In addition to the discussion below, see “Risks Relating to MMC Generally – Competitive Risks,” in Part I, Item 1A of this report.  

Risk and Insurance Services. MMC’s combined insurance and reinsurance services businesses are global in scope. The principal bases upon which our insurance and reinsurance businesses compete include the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. MMC encounters strong competition in the risk and insurance services business from other insurance and reinsurance brokerage firms that operate on a nationwide or worldwide basis, from a large number of regional and local firms in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere, from insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents and from other businesses, including commercial and investment banks, accounting firms and consultants, that provide risk-related services and products. Although the major global insurance brokerage firms against whom Marsh competes have, like us, stopped using market service arrangements, many specialist, regional and local firms have not done so. The continuing acceptance of market service or contingent commission revenue by certain of Marsh’s competitors may provide them greater pricing flexibility and put Marsh at a competitive disadvantage.  

Certain insureds and groups of insureds have established programs of self insurance (including captive insurance companies) as a supplement or alternative to third-party insurance, thereby reducing in some cases their need for insurance placements. There are also many other providers of affinity group and private client services, including specialized firms, insurance companies and other institutions.  

The continuing impact of legal and regulatory proceedings concerning our insurance brokerage operations also could affect Marsh’s competitive position. These proceedings are discussed in more detail in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report. Please also read our discussion of the risks associated with these proceedings and their impact under Part I, Item 1A (“Risk Factors”) below.  

Consulting. MMC’s consulting and HR outsourcing businesses face strong competition from other privately and publicly held worldwide and national companies, as well as regional and local firms. These businesses compete generally on the basis of the range, quality and cost of the services and products provided to clients. Competitors include independent consulting and outsourcing firms, as well as consulting and outsourcing operations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms.  

Mercer’s investment consulting business faces competition from many sources, including multi-manager services offered by other investment consulting firms and financial institutions. Mercer’s investment management business, which was recently established, in particular faces significant competition from better-established rivals with greater experience in that market.  

In many cases, clients have the option of handling the services provided by Mercer internally, without assistance from outside advisors.  

Risk Consulting & Technology. In risk consulting and technology, we face competition from local, regional, national and international firms that provide similar services in the fields of accounting, corporate advisory and restructuring services, investigative and security services, consulting and technology services. Kroll’s Consulting Services Group faces competition from local, regional, national and international accounting firms and forensic accounting, litigation support, investigative and other specialist and consulting firms. Kroll’s Corporate Advisory & Restructuring Group faces competition from national and international accounting firms and specialist recovery firms. Kroll’s Security Group faces competition from international and local security firms, government security contractors, and architectural engineering firms. Kroll’s Technology Services Group faces competition from a variety of law firms, independent service providers and technology companies.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Segmentation of Activity by Type of Service and Geographic Area of Operation.  

Financial information relating to the types of services provided by MMC and the geographic areas of its operations is incorporated herein by reference to Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report.  

Employees  

As of December 31, 2007, MMC and its consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 56,000 people worldwide, including approximately 29,000 in risk and insurance services, approximately 22,000 in consulting and approximately 4,400 in risk consulting and technology. Approximately 600 individuals are employed by MMC at the parent-company level.  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF MMC  

The executive officers of MMC are appointed annually by MMC’s board of directors. As of February 29, 2008, the following individuals were executive officers of MMC:  

Matthew B. Bartley, age 51, is executive vice president and chief financial officer of MMC. Prior to assuming his current position in September 2006, Mr. Bartley was treasurer of MMC, a position he held since joining MMC in April 2001. Previously, Mr. Bartley was vice president of taxes at Engelhard Corporation, a multinational specialty chemicals and precious metals company, with responsibility for tax and transaction planning, execution and reporting. Prior to that role, he served for close to ten years in senior international treasury and tax positions at PepsiCo, Inc., where he was responsible for global strategic transaction planning and execution across international operating businesses.  

Peter J. Beshar, age 46, is executive vice president and general counsel of MMC. Before joining MMC in November 2004, Mr. Beshar was a litigation partner in the law firm of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP. Mr. Beshar joined Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in 1995 after serving as an Assistant Attorney General in the New York Attorney General’s office.  

M. Michele Burns, age 50, is chairwoman and chief executive officer of Mercer. Ms. Burns joined MMC as executive vice president on March 1, 2006, assumed the position of chief financial officer of MMC on March 31, 2006 and moved to her current position with Mercer on September 25, 2006. Prior to joining MMC, Ms. Burns was executive vice president and chief financial officer since May 2004, and chief restructuring officer since August 2004, of Mirant Corporation, an energy company. Prior to joining Mirant, she was executive vice president and chief financial officer of Delta Air Lines, Inc. from August 2000 to April 2004. She held various other positions in the finance and tax departments of Delta beginning in January 1999. Delta filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code in September 2005.  

Mathis Cabiallavetta, age 63, is vice chairman, office of the CEO of MMC, chairman of MMC International and chairman of Marsh AG, Switzerland. He is also a member of the boards of directors of Kessler & Co, Switzerland, Altria Group, Inc. and BlackRock, Inc. Mr. Cabiallavetta is vice president of the Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce and a member of the Advisory Board of General Atlantic Partners in New York. Prior to joining MMC in 1999, Mr. Cabiallavetta was chairman of the board of UBS AG, which he joined in 1971.  

John Drzik, age 45, is president and chief executive officer of Oliver Wyman Group, a position he assumed in June 2006. From 2003 to 2006, Mr. Drzik was president of Mercer Oliver Wyman, which was formed following MMC’s acquisition of Oliver, Wyman & Company in 2003. He joined Oliver, Wyman & Company in 1984, became president in 1995, and was appointed chairman in 2000.  

Brian Duperreault, age 60, is president and chief executive officer of MMC, a position he assumed in January 2008. Prior to joining MMC, Mr. Duperreault served as chairman and chief executive officer of ACE Limited from 1994 to 2004, and continued as chairman through the end of 2007. Prior to ACE, Mr. Duperreault was with American International Group (AIG) for more than 20 years, holding numerous positions and eventually becoming executive vice president of AIG Foreign General Insurance and chairman and chief executive of AIG’s American International Underwriters (AIU).  

10  

Table of Contents 

Simon Freakley, age 46, is president and chief executive officer of Kroll, a position he has held since October 2004. Mr. Freakley had been a director of Kroll since June 2003 and head of Kroll’s Consulting Group since April 2004. He was president of Kroll’s Corporate Advisory & Restructuring Group from September 2002 until its consolidation with Kroll’s Consulting Services Group in April 2004. From 1996 until his appointment as Kroll’s chief executive officer, Mr. Freakley was also managing partner of Kroll Ltd. (previously Kroll Buchler Phillips and Buchler Phillips), Kroll’s U.K.-based corporate advisory and restructuring subsidiary. Mr. Freakley joined Buchler Phillips in 1992. The firm was acquired by Kroll in 1999.  

E. Scott Gilbert, age 52, is senior vice president and chief compliance officer of MMC. Prior to joining MMC in January 2005, he had been the chief compliance counsel of the General Electric Company since September 2004. Prior thereto, he was counsel, litigation and legal policy at GE. Between 1986 and 1992, when he joined GE, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York.  

Daniel S. Glaser, age 47, is chairman and chief executive officer of Marsh, a position he assumed in December 2007. Previously, he had been managing director of AIG Europe (U.K.) Limited, and the regional president of AIG’s American International Underwriters (AIU) U.K./Ireland division. He joined AIG in 2000 as president of the firm’s Global Energy Division. He was named managing director of AIG Europe (U.K.) in 2002. Mr. Glaser began his career in the insurance industry in 1982 as a Marsh broker. He worked at Marsh for a decade, serving in roles in New York, London and Saudi Arabia. Thereafter, he spent eight years at Willis, where he served as president and chief operating officer of Willis Risk Solutions, the Willis large accounts practice.  

David Nadler, age 59, is vice chairman, office of the CEO of MMC. Dr. Nadler founded the Delta Consulting Group, Inc., a consulting firm specializing in executive leadership and organizational change, in 1980. He served as chairman and chief executive officer of that firm until its acquisition by Mercer in 2000, when it became Mercer Delta Consulting, LLC. Dr. Nadler served as chairman and chief executive officer of Oliver Wyman’s Delta Organization & Leadership business through December 2005 and remains chairman and senior partner of that firm.  

Michael A. Petrullo, age 39, is senior vice president and chief administrative officer of MMC. After MMC’s acquisition of Kroll in July 2004, Mr. Petrullo became chief financial officer for the risk consulting businesses of Marsh and Kroll until assuming his current position with MMC in January 2005. Mr. Petrullo was chief operating officer and executive vice president of Kroll from December 2002 to July 2004. Prior thereto, he was deputy chief operating officer of Kroll from June through December of 2002, the acting chief financial officer of Kroll from November 2001 to June 2002, and vice president and controller of Kroll from August 2001 to November 2001. He was vice president-finance of Kroll’s Investigations and Intelligence Group from February 1999 until August 2001. He joined Kroll Associates in 1995, serving as assistant controller through February 1998.  

Peter Zaffino, age 41, is president and chief executive officer of Guy Carpenter. Prior to assuming this position in February 2008, he had served since 2007 as executive vice president and head of Guy Carpenter’s U.S. treaty operations. Previously, Mr. Zaffino was responsible for treaty operations in Guy Carpenter’s U.S. eastern region and prior to that led the firm’s global specialty practices business. Before joining Guy Carpenter in 2001, Mr. Zaffino served in an executive role with a GE Capital portfolio company specializing in casualty treaty reinsurance.  

AVAILABLE INFORMATION  

MMC is subject to the informational reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In accordance with the Exchange Act, MMC files with the SEC annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. MMC makes these reports available free of charge through its website, www.mmc.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The public may read and copy such materials at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC, 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet   

11  

Table of Contents 

 site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, like MMC, that file electronically with the SEC.  

MMC also posts on its website the following documents with respect to corporate governance:  

   n    Guidelines for Corporate Governance;  

   n    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics;  

   n    procedures for addressing complaints and concerns of employees and others; and  

   n    the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Compliance Committee and Directors and Governance Committee of MMC’s Board of Directors.  

All of the above documents are available in printed form to any MMC stockholder upon request.  

12  

Table of Contents 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors