Item 1A. Risk Factors  

You should consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information presented in this report. These risks have the potential to materially adversely affect MMC’s business, results of operations or financial condition.  

RISKS RELATING TO MMC GENERALLY  

Senior Management Transition  

Our success depends in part on successful transitions in MMC’s and Marsh’s senior leadership.  

MMC and its insurance services subsidiary Marsh are both in the midst of senior leadership transitions. MMC announced the departure of Marsh’s prior chief executive officer in September 2007, and announced the appointment of Daniel S. Glaser as Marsh’s new chief executive officer in December 2007. MMC announced the departure of MMC’s prior chief executive officer in December 2007, and announced the appointment of Brian Duperreault as MMC’s new chief executive officer in January 2008. MMC’s and Marsh’s future performance will depend in part on the ability of Messrs. Duperreault and Glaser and their respective senior management teams, which include newly hired executives in some positions, to develop and successfully implement their business strategies.  

Legal and Regulatory Issues  

We are subject to legal proceedings and other contingencies which, if determined unfavorably to us, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

As more fully described in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report, we are subject to a number of legal proceedings, regulatory actions and other contingencies. An adverse outcome in connection with one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition in any given quarterly or annual period. In addition, regardless of any eventual monetary costs, these matters could have a material adverse effect on MMC by exposing us to negative publicity, reputational damage, harm to our client or employee relationships, or diversion of personnel and management resources.  

We are subject to significant uninsured exposures arising from “errors and omissions” claims.  

MMC’s operating companies provide numerous brokerage, consulting and other services for clients around the world. As a result of these activities, we are potentially subject to errors and omissions, or “E&O,” claims by clients and third parties who may allege that they were damaged as a result of MMC’s failure to perform its duties as expected. These claims in any given case might be significant and could subject MMC, in addition to potential liability for monetary damages, to reputational harm and diversion of personnel and management resources.  

Since 2001, the worldwide market for professional liability insurance against E&O claims has contracted significantly, which has caused MMC to assume increasing levels of self-insurance for its potential E&O exposures. MMC has established loss reserves which it believes are adequate to provide for this self-insured retention. Nevertheless, given the unpredictability of E&O claims and of litigation that could flow from them, it is possible that an adverse outcome in a particular matter could have a material adverse effect on MMC’s results of operations or financial condition in a given quarterly or annual period.  

Actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.  

Our activities are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States and its various states, the European Union and its member states, and the other jurisdictions in which we   

13  

Table of Contents 

 operate. Some of this regulation has only recently been instituted; for example, in January 2005, our insurance and reinsurance services activities, as well as certain of our consulting activities, in the United Kingdom came under the jurisdiction of the Financial Services Authority. Certain of the U.S. laws and regulations to which we are subject relate to the conduct of business abroad by American companies; examples are the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control.  

In most jurisdictions, government regulatory authorities have the power to interpret or amend applicable laws and regulations, and have discretion to grant, renew and revoke various licenses and approvals we need to conduct our activities. If we violate applicable laws or regulations in a particular jurisdiction, we might be subject to adverse consequences, such as the loss of an operating license or approval, the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in a particular business, redress to clients or fines. In some areas of our businesses, we act on the basis of our own or the industry’s interpretations of applicable laws or regulations, which may conflict from state to state or country to country. In the event those interpretations eventually prove different from those of regulatory authorities, we might be penalized or precluded from carrying on our previous activities. Any significant impairment of our ability to conduct our business as we historically have done could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.  

Improper disclosure of personal data could result in legal liability or harm our reputation.  

One of our significant responsibilities is to maintain the security and privacy of our clients’ confidential and proprietary information and the personal data of their employees and plan participants. We maintain policies, procedures and technological safeguards designed to protect the security and privacy of this information. Nonetheless, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper access to or disclosure of personally identifiable information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under our contracts and laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue.  

Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. Our failure to adhere to or successfully implement processes in response to changing regulatory requirements in this area could result in legal liability or impairment to our reputation in the marketplace.  

International Operations  

We are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations.  

We do business worldwide. In 2007, 51 percent of MMC’s total operating segments revenue was generated from operations outside the United States, and over one-half of our employees are located abroad. We expect to expand our non-U.S. operations further.  

The geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational and market risks. These include, among others, risks relating to:  

   n    economic and political conditions in foreign countries;  

   n    local investment or other financial restrictions that foreign governments may impose;  

   n    potential costs and difficulties in complying, or monitoring compliance, with rules relating to trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, the requirements of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or other U.S. laws and regulations applicable to business operations abroad;  

   n    limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries;  

   n    withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-U.S. subsidiaries;  

   n    the length of payment cycles and potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable;  

   n    engaging and relying on third parties to perform services on behalf of MMC;  

   n    potential difficulties in monitoring employees in geographically dispersed locations; and  

14  

Table of Contents 

   n    potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with U.S. or other sources of law.  

In addition, we are subject to exchange rate risk because some of our subsidiaries receive revenue other than in their functional currencies, and because we generally must translate the financial results of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars. For example, most of MMC’s total operating segments revenue generated outside of the U.S. is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a consequence, significant changes in exchange rates may have a material effect on our reported financial results for any given period.  

Competitive Risks  

Each of MMC’s businesses operates in a highly competitive environment. If we fail to compete effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer.  

As a global professional services firm, MMC experiences acute and continuous competition in each of its operating segments. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a variety of factors, including our geographic reach, the sophistication and quality of our services, and our pricing relative to our competitors. If we are unable to respond successfully to the competition we face, our business and results of operations will suffer.  

In our risk and insurance services segment, we compete intensely against two other major global brokerage firms, Aon and Willis, for both client business and employee talent. We also face competition from a wide range of other insurance brokerage firms that operate on a regional, national or local scale; many of these firms, unlike Marsh, Aon and Willis, have not stopped using market service arrangements, and thus may have greater pricing flexibility than we do. We compete as well with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or other market intermediaries, and with various other companies that provide risk-related services. The above competition is intensified by an emerging industry trend toward a “syndicated” or “distributed” approach to the purchase of insurance brokerage services, whereby a client engages multiple brokers to service different portions of the client’s account.  

In our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments, we compete for business and employee talent with numerous independent consulting firms and organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology and financial services firms around the world. Kroll also competes with law firms for certain of its services.  

The loss of key professionals could hurt our ability to retain existing client revenues and generate revenues from new business.  

Across all of our businesses, our personnel are crucial to developing and retaining the client relationships on which our revenues depend. It is therefore very important for us to retain significant revenue-producing employees and the key managerial and other professionals who support them. We face numerous challenges in this regard, including:  

   n    the intense competition for talent in all of our businesses;  

   n    the general mobility of professionals in our businesses; and  

   n    the difficulties we may face in offering compensation of a type and amount (including equity-based compensation) sufficient to attract, motivate and retain valuable employees.  

Losing employees who manage or support substantial client relationships or possess substantial experience or expertise could adversely affect our ability to secure and complete client engagements, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any of our key professionals were to join an existing competitor or form a competing company, some of our clients could choose to use the services of that competitor instead of our services.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Our businesses face rapid technological changes and our failure to adequately anticipate or respond to these changes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  

To remain competitive in many of our business areas, we must identify the most current technologies and methodologies and integrate them into our service offerings. For example, Guy Carpenter’s risk-modeling services are increasingly dependent on implementing advanced software and data-compilation tools; Kroll’s e-discovery business depends on advanced search technology and computerized document processing; and Mercer’s ability to price its outsourcing services competitively is highly dependent on technology. If we do not make the correct technology choices or investments, or if our choices or investments are insufficiently prompt or cost-effective, our business and results of operations could suffer.  

Financial Risks  

Credit rating downgrades could negatively affect our financing costs and subject us to operational risk.  

Both Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s downgraded MMC’s senior debt credit rating in late 2004 and S&P announced a further downgrade in December 2007. Currently, MMC’s senior debt is rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P. These ratings are the next-to-lowest investment grade rating for Moody’s, and the lowest investment-grade rating for S&P.  

If we need to raise capital in the future (for example, in order to fund maturing debt obligations or finance acquisitions or other initiatives), any further credit rating downgrade could negatively affect our financing costs, and likely would limit our access to financing sources. Further, we believe that a downgrade to a rating below investment-grade could result in greater operational risks through increased operating costs and increased competitive pressures.  

Our pension obligations may cause MMC’s earnings to fluctuate.  

MMC has significant pension obligations to its current and former employees, totaling approximately $10 billion at December 31, 2007. The magnitude of our worldwide pension plans means that our earnings are comparatively sensitive to factors such as equity and bond market returns, the assumed interest rates we use to discount our pension liabilities, rates of inflation and mortality assumptions. Variations in any of these factors could cause significant fluctuation in our earnings from year to year.  

Acquisitions and Dispositions  

We face risks when we acquire and dispose of businesses.  

We have a history of making acquisitions, including our $1.9 billion acquisition of Kroll in July 2004 and a total of 31 acquisitions in the period 2005-2007 for aggregate purchase consideration of $427 million. We have also exited various businesses, including Putnam in August 2007. We expect that targeted acquisitions and dispositions will continue to be part of our business strategy. Our success in this regard will depend on our ability to identify appropriate acquisition and disposition candidates and to complete with favorable results the transactions we decide to pursue.  

While we intend that our acquisitions will improve our competitiveness and profitability, we cannot be certain that our past or future acquisitions will be accretive to earnings or otherwise meet our operational or strategic expectations. Acquisitions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies and difficulties in integrating acquired businesses, and acquired businesses may not achieve the levels of revenue, profit or productivity we anticipate or otherwise perform as we expect. In addition, if the operating performance of an acquired business deteriorates significantly, we may need to write down the value of the goodwill and other acquisition-related intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. Given the significant size of MMC’s goodwill and intangible assets, a write-down of this sort could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given period. As of December 31, 2007, MMC’s consolidated balance sheet reflected $7.8 billion of goodwill and intangible assets, representing approximately 45 percent of MMC’s total consolidated assets and allocated by reporting segment as follows: risk and insurance services, $3.8 billion; consulting, $1.9 billion; and risk consulting & technology, $1.7 billion.  

16  

Table of Contents 

When we dispose of businesses we are subject to the risk, contractually agreed or otherwise, of post-transaction liabilities. For example, as described in Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included under Part II, Item 8 of this report, we have retained certain contingent litigation liabilities relating to Putnam.  

RISKS RELATING TO OUR RISK AND INSURANCE SERVICES SEGMENT  

Our risk and insurance services segment, conducted through Marsh and Guy Carpenter and including Risk Capital Holdings, represented 49 percent of MMC’s total operating segments revenue in 2007. Our business in this segment is subject to particular risks.  

Volatility or declines in premiums and other market trends may significantly impede our ability to improve revenues and profitability.  

A significant portion of our risk and insurance services revenue consists of commissions paid to us out of the premiums that insurers and reinsurers charge our clients for coverage. We have no control over premium rates, and our revenues and profitability are subject to change to the extent that premium rates fluctuate or trend in a particular direction. The potential for changes in premium rates is significant, due to the general phenomenon of pricing cyclicality in the commercial insurance and reinsurance markets.  

For example, for several years through late 2000, competition among insurers for market share and increased underwriting capacity helped create a so-called “soft market,” in which premium rates were driven downward and Marsh’s and Guy Carpenter’s commission revenues were pressured. Subsequently, due in part to the events of September 11, 2001, the insurance industry transitioned into a “hard market,” in which premium rates increased. These rate increases continued until 2005, at which point average U.S. commercial property-casualty rates began to decline on a year-over-year basis. According to industry sources, these soft market conditions have continued and generally intensified through the end of 2007.  

In addition to movements in premium rates, our ability to generate premium-based commission revenue may be challenged by the growing availability of alternative methods for clients to meet their risk-protection needs. This trend includes a greater willingness on the part of corporations to “self-insure;” the use of so-called “captive” insurers; and the advent of capital markets-based solutions to traditional insurance and reinsurance needs.  

We may not be as successful as we hope in implementing Marsh’s evolving business model and otherwise coping with changing modes of compensation in the insurance brokerage industry.  

Since late 2004, Marsh has made significant changes to its business model, including the elimination of market service agreements with insurers. The elimination of market service revenue has negatively affected our financial results. In 2004, we recognized market service revenue of $516 million, relating to insurance placements made before October 1, 2004. By contrast, in 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively, we recognized $114 million, $43 million and $3 million of market service revenue relating to placements made before October 1, 2004.  

Although Aon and Willis have similarly terminated the use of market service agreements, many specialist, regional and local insurance brokers have not. To date, there has been no regulatory action to end the use of market service arrangements throughout the brokerage industry, and it is therefore unclear to what extent many of our competitors will continue to accept market service or contingent commission revenue. It is possible that Marsh will continue indefinitely to suffer competitive disadvantage compared to the brokers that have not given up the use of market service arrangements. If that occurs, Marsh would continue to face pressure on its revenues, operating margin and market share.  

In addition to the possibility of continued competitive disadvantage as described above, Marsh faces risks relating to the implementation of its post-2004 business model. Marsh currently seeks to increase revenue through higher commissions and fees that are disclosed to its clients, and to generate profitable revenue growth by focusing on the provision of value-added risk advisory services   

17  

Table of Contents 

 beyond traditional brokerage activities. Marsh’s current business and compensation model continues to evolve and in some respects remains untested. We cannot be certain that it will generate the profitable revenue growth we are targeting. The inability to derive adequate revenues from Marsh’s current business and compensation model may significantly impede improvement in our operating results and profitability.  

Our operating income and margins in risk and insurance services may be affected by quarterly changes in the value of Risk Capital Holdings’ investments in private equity funds.  

Through its risk and insurance services subsidiary Risk Capital Holdings, MMC owns, among other investments, minority interests in certain private equity funds. Risk Capital Holdings records as revenue its proportionate share of changes in the quarterly fair value of these funds’ underlying investments. These changes in value, the size and timing of which Risk Capital Holdings generally does not control, can have a significant effect on risk and insurance services revenue from one quarter to another. In turn, because a large proportion of Risk Capital Holdings’ revenues flow directly to net operating income in risk and insurance services, changes in the value of Risk Capital Holdings’ private equity fund investments can have a significant effect on segment operating income and margins from quarter to quarter.  

Results in our risk and insurance services segment may be adversely affected by a general decline in economic activity.  

Demand for many types of insurance and reinsurance generally rises and falls as economic growth expands or slows. This dynamic affects the level of commissions and fees generated by Marsh and Guy Carpenter. To the extent our clients become adversely affected by declining business conditions, they may choose to limit their purchases of insurance coverage, which would inhibit our ability to generate commission revenue; and may decide not to purchase our risk advisory services, which would inhibit our ability to generate fee revenue. Moreover, a growing number of insolvencies associated with an economic downturn, especially insolvencies in the insurance industry, could adversely affect our brokerage business through the loss of clients or by hampering our ability to place insurance and reinsurance business.  

RISKS RELATING TO OUR CONSULTING AND RISK CONSULTING AND TECHNOLOGY SEGMENTS  

Our consulting segment, conducted through Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group, represented 43 percent of our total operating segments revenue in 2007. Our risk consulting and technology segment, conducted through Kroll, represented 9 percent of our total operating segments revenue in 2007. Our businesses in these two segments are subject to particular risks.  

Demand for our services might decrease for various reasons, including a general economic downturn, a decline in a client’s or an industry’s financial condition, or changes in government regulation.  

Our consulting and risk consulting and technology segments generally have achieved significant revenue growth over the last three years. Despite this history, however, we cannot be certain that demand for our consulting and risk consulting and technology services will continue to grow. The evolving needs or financial circumstances of our clients also may challenge our ability to increase revenues and profitability; in particular, economic downturns affecting particular clients or industry groups could reduce demand for our services.  

In addition, demand for many of Mercer’s benefits services is affected by government regulation and tax rules, which drive our clients’ needs for benefits-related services. For example, significant changes in government regulations affecting the value, use or delivery of benefits and human resources programs, including changes in regulations relating to health and welfare plans, defined contribution plans, or defined benefit plans, may adversely affect the demand for or profitability of Mercer’s services.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Our profitability may suffer if we are unable to achieve or maintain adequate utilization and pricing rates for our consultants.  

The profitability of our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses depends in part on ensuring that our consultants maintain adequate utilization rates (i.e., the percentage of our consultants’ working hours devoted to billable activities). Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including:  

   n    our ability to transition consultants promptly from completed projects to new assignments, and to engage newly hired consultants quickly in revenue-generating activities;  

   n    our ability to continually secure new business engagements, particularly because a portion of our work is project-based rather than recurring in nature;  

   n    our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces;  

   n    unanticipated changes in the scope of client engagements;  

   n    the potential for conflicts of interest that might require us to decline client engagements that we otherwise would have accepted; and  

   n    our need to devote time and resources to sales, training, professional development and other non-billable activities.  

In recent periods, we have maintained a utilization rate that is high by our historical standards. We cannot be certain that we will maintain this level of utilization in future periods, particularly if economic growth slows. If the utilization rate for our consulting professionals were to decline, our profit margin and profitability could suffer.  

In addition, the profitability of our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses depends on the prices we are able to charge for our services. Our pricing power is affected by a number of factors, including:  

   n    clients’ perception of our ability to add value through our services;  

   n    market demand for the services we provide;  

   n    our ability to develop new services and the introduction of new services by competitors; 

   n    the pricing policies of our competitors;  

   n    changes in the extent to which our clients develop in-house or other capabilities to perform the services that they might otherwise purchase from us; and 

   n    general economic conditions.  

If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate billing rates for our consultants, our profit margin and profitability could suffer.  

Our quarterly revenues and profitability may fluctuate significantly.  

Quarterly variations in Mercer’s, Oliver Wyman Group’s and Kroll’s revenues and operating results may occur due to several factors. These include:  

   n    the significance of client engagements commenced and completed during a quarter;  

   n    the unpredictability of the timing and amount of success fees;  

   n    the possibility that clients may decide to delay or terminate a current or anticipated project as a result of factors unrelated to our work product or progress;  

   n    fluctuations in consultant hiring and utilization rates and clients’ ability to terminate engagements without penalty;  

   n    seasonality at Mercer due to the impact of regulatory deadlines and other timing factors to which our clients are subject;  

19  

Table of Contents 

   n    the success of our strategic acquisitions, alliances or investments; and 

   n    general economic conditions, since results of operations in our consulting and risk consulting and technology businesses are directly affected by the levels of business activity of our clients, which in turn are affected by the level of economic activity in the industries and markets that they serve.  

A significant portion of total operating expenses at Mercer, Oliver Wyman Group and Kroll is relatively fixed. Therefore, a variation in the number of client assignments or in the timing of the initiation or the completion of client assignments can cause significant variations in quarterly operating results for these businesses.  

Acceleration of the shift by employers from defined benefit plans to defined contribution plans could adversely affect Mercer’s operating results.  

Mercer currently provides clients with actuarial and consulting services relating to both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. Defined benefit pension plans generally require more services than defined contribution plans because defined benefit plans typically involve large asset pools, complex calculations to determine employer costs, funding requirements and sophisticated analysis to match liabilities and assets over long periods of time. Recent regulatory initiatives in the United States and certain European countries may result in companies either discontinuing or curtailing defined benefit programs in favor of defined contribution plans. If organizations shift to defined contribution plans more rapidly than we anticipate and we do not successfully adjust our service offerings to take account of that change, Mercer’s operating results could be adversely affected.  

 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

There are no unresolved comments to be reported pursuant to Item 1B.  

 Item 2. Properties.