PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(a) General Development of the Business

Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, the “Company” or “Colgate”) is a leading consumer products company whose products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world. Colgate was founded in 1806 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923.

For recent business developments and other information, refer to the information set forth under the captions “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Executive Overview and Outlook,” “–Results of Operations,” “–Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges” and “Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

(b) Financial Information about Segments

Worldwide Net sales and Operating profit by business segment and geographic region during the last three years appear under the caption “Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this report and in Note 15, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(c) Narrative Description of the Business

The Company operates in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Colgate is a global leader in Oral Care with the leading toothpaste and manual toothbrush brands throughout many parts of the world according to market share data. Colgate’s Oral Care products include Colgate Total, Colgate Sensitive Pro-Relief, Colgate Max Fresh, Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer, Colgate Optic White and Colgate Luminous White toothpastes, Colgate 360° and Colgate Slim Soft manual toothbrushes and Colgate Optic White, Colgate Total and Colgate Plax mouthwashes. Colgate’s Oral Care business also includes pharmaceutical products for dentists and other oral health professionals.

Colgate is a leader in many product categories of the Personal Care market with global leadership in liquid hand soap, which it sells under the Palmolive, Protex and Softsoap brands. Colgate’s Personal Care products also include Palmolive, Sanex and Softsoap brand shower gels, Palmolive, Irish Spring and Protex bar soaps and Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick and Sanex deodorants and antiperspirants. Colgate is the market leader in liquid hand soap in the U.S. with its line of Softsoap brand products according to market share data. Colgate’s Personal Care business outside the U.S. also includes Palmolive and Caprice shampoos and conditioners.

Colgate manufactures and markets a wide array of products for the Home Care market, including Palmolive and Ajax dishwashing liquids, Fabuloso and Ajax household cleaners and Murphy’s Oil Soap. Colgate is a market leader in fabric softeners with leading brands including Suavitel in Latin America, Soupline in Europe and Cuddly in the South Pacific according to market share data.

Sales of Oral, Personal and Home Care products accounted for 47%, 20% and 18%, respectively, of the Company’s total worldwide Net sales in 2016. Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of the Company’s business in Asia Pacific, comprising approximately 81% of Net sales in that region for 2016.

Colgate, through its Hill’s Pet Nutrition segment (“Hill’s”), is a world leader in specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats with products marketed in over 80 countries worldwide. Hill’s markets pet foods primarily under three brands: Hill’s Science Diet, a range of products for everyday nutritional needs; Hill’s Prescription Diet, a range of therapeutic products to help nutritionally manage disease conditions in dogs and cats; and Hill’s Ideal Balance, a range of products with natural ingredients. Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for 15% of the Company’s total worldwide Net sales in 2016.

 1

For more information regarding the Company’s worldwide Net sales by product category, refer to Note 1, Nature of Operations and Note 15, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

For additional information regarding market share data, see “Market Share Information” in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

Research and Development

Strong research and development capabilities and alliances enable Colgate to support its many brands with technologically sophisticated products to meet consumers’ oral, personal and home care and pet nutrition needs. The Company’s spending related to research and development activities was $289 million in 2016, $274 million in 2015 and $277 million in 2014.

Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents

The Company’s Oral, Personal and Home Care products are marketed by a direct sales force at individual operating subsidiaries or business units, and by distributors or brokers. Pet Nutrition products are sold by authorized pet supply retailers and veterinarians. The Company’s products are also sold online through various e-commerce platforms and retailers. The Company’s sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 11% of the Company’s Net sales in 2016. No other customer represents more than 10% of the Company’s Net sales.

The majority of raw and packaging materials used in the Company’s products are purchased from other companies and are available from several sources. No single raw or packaging material represents, and no single supplier provides, a significant portion of the Company’s total material requirements. For certain materials, however, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take some period of time. Raw and packaging material commodities such as resins, pulp, essential oils, tropical oils, tallow, poultry, corn and soybeans are subject to market price variations.

The Company’s products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased trade concentration and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers, large-format retailers and discounters. Products similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from multinational and local competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of the Company’s competitors are larger and have greater resources than the Company. In certain geographies, particularly in the emerging markets, the Company also faces strong local competitors, who may be more agile and have better local consumer insights than the Company. In addition, private label brands sold by retail trade chains are a source of competition for certain of the Company’s product lines. Product quality, innovation, brand recognition, marketing capability and acceptance of new products largely determine success in the Company’s operating segments.

Trademarks are considered to be of material importance to the Company’s business. The Company follows a practice of seeking trademark protection in the U.S. and throughout the world where the Company’s products are sold. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, elmex, Tom’s of Maine, Sanex, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill’s Science Diet, Hill’s Prescription Diet and Hill’s Ideal Balance. The Company’s rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they are used and/or registered. Although the Company actively develops and maintains a portfolio of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

Environmental Matters

The Company has programs that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities meet or exceed standards established by applicable environmental rules and regulations. Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities totaled $60 million for 2016. For future years, expenditures are currently expected to be of a similar magnitude. For additional information regarding environmental matters refer to Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 2

Employees

As of December 31, 2016, the Company employed approximately 36,700 employees.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following is a list of executive officers as of February 23, 2017:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Each of the executive officers listed above has served the registrant or its subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years with the exception of Jennifer M. Daniels, who joined the Company in 2014 as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary. Ms. Daniels joined the Company from NCR Corporation where she was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining NCR Corporation in 2010, Ms. Daniels was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Barnes & Noble, Inc., which she joined in 2007. 

Under the Company’s By-Laws, the officers of the corporation hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified or until they have resigned, retired or been removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Board”). There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, and there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was elected.

(d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas

For financial data by geographic region, refer to the information set forth under the caption “Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7, of this report and in Note 15, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A “Risk Factors.”

 3

(e) Available Information

The Company’s website address is www.colgatepalmolive.com. The information contained on the Company’s website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, its interactive data files posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, its current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Also available on the Company’s website are the Company’s Code of Conduct and Board Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues, the charters of the Committees of the Board, Form SD and the related Conflict Minerals Disclosure and Report, reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act of transactions in Company stock by directors and officers and its proxy statements.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS