Item 1. Business 

Our Business: Omnicom, a strategic holding company, was formed in 1986 by the merger of several leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies. We are one of the world’s largest advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies and we operate in a highly competitive industry. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development of interactive technologies and mediums, along with their integration within all offerings, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it increasingly more difficult for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to marketing service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing communications services designed to make the best use of their total marketing expenditures. 

Our agencies operate in all major markets around the world and provide a comprehensive range of services which we group into four fundamental disciplines: traditional media advertising; customer relationship management (“CRM”); public relations; and specialty communications. The services included in these disciplines are: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Although the medium used to reach a client’s target audience may differ across each of these disciplines, we develop and deliver the marketing message in a similar way by providing client-specific consulting services. 

Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is to deliver our services and allocate our resources based on the specific requirements of our clients. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and 

1 

 efficiency, they have tended to consolidate their business with larger, multi-disciplinary agencies or integrated groups of agencies. Accordingly, our business model demands that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to execute against our clients’ specific marketing requirements. We believe that this organizational philosophy, and our ability to execute it, differentiates us from our competitors. 

Our agency networks and our virtual networks provide us with the ability to integrate services across all disciplines and geographies. This means that the delivery of our services can, and does, take place across agencies, networks and geographic regions simultaneously. Further, we believe that our virtual network strategy facilitates better integration of services required by the demands of the marketplace for advertising and marketing communications services. Our over-arching business strategy is to continue to use our virtual networks to grow our business relationships with our clients. 

The various components of our business and material factors that affected us in 2010 are discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, or MD&A, of this report. None of our acquisitions or dispositions in 2010, 2009 or 2008 were material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. For information concerning our acquisitions, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Geographic Regions and Segments: Our revenue is almost evenly divided between our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. For financial information concerning domestic and foreign operations and segment reporting, see our MD&A and Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Our Clients: Consistent with our fundamental business strategy, our agencies serve similar clients, in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients, across a variety of geographic regions and locations. Our clients participate in virtually every industry sector of the global economy. Furthermore, in many cases, our agencies or networks serve different brand and/or product groups within the same clients served by our other agencies or networks. For example, our largest client was served by more than 100 of our agencies in 2010 and represented 3.0% of our 2010 revenue. No other client accounted for more than 2.4% of our 2010 revenue. Our top 100 clients ranked by revenue were each served, on average, by more than 50 of our agencies in 2010 and collectively represented 50.6% of our 2010 revenue. 

Our Employees: At December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 65,500 people. We are not party to any significant collective bargaining agreements. The skill-sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and their selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established tailored training and education programs for our service professionals around this competency. See our MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant: Our executive officers as of February 15, 2011 are: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Each executive officer has held his present position for at least five years. 

Additional information about our directors and executive officers appears under the captions “Corporate Governance,” “Transactions with Related Persons,” “Election of Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and “Stock Ownership” in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed by April 14, 2011. 

2 

 Item 1A. Risk Factors