Item 7.  Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   

 Executive Summary 

 We are a strategic holding company. We provide professional services to clients through multiple agencies around the world. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our agencies provide these services in the following disciplines: traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. While our agencies operate under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is that our clients’ specific requirements should be the central focus in how we deliver our services and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model results in multiple agencies collaborating in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal organizational structures to deliver consistent brand messages for a specific client and execute against each of our client’s specific marketing requirements. We continually seek to grow our business with our existing clients by maintaining our client-centric approach, as well as expanding our existing business relationships into new markets and with new clients. In addition, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary businesses with strong, entrepreneurial management teams that typically currently serve or have the ability to serve our existing client base. 

 As one of the world’s leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies, we operate in all major markets of the global economy. We have a large and diverse client base. Our largest client represented 3.0% of our 2010 revenue and no other client accounted for more than 2.4% of our 2010 revenue. Our top 100 clients accounted for 50.6% of our 2010 revenue. Our business is spread across a significant number of industry sectors with no one industry comprising more than 16% of our 2010 revenue from our 1,000 largest clients. Although our revenue is generally balanced between the U.S. and international markets and we have a large and diverse client base, we are not immune to general economic downturns. 

 In 2010, our revenue increased 7.0% compared to 2009. The increase reflects an improvement in business conditions in our industry over 2009. Revenue increased across all our disciplines driven by economic recovery in the U.S. and continued growth in the emerging markets in Asia and Latin America. In Europe, we experienced a moderate increase in revenue in the U.K., while economic recovery has lagged in our Euro markets. We will continue to closely monitor economic conditions, client spending and other factors and, in response, take actions available to us to improve our cost structure and manage working capital. In the current economic environment, there can be no assurance as to the effects on us of future economic conditions, client spending patterns, client creditworthiness and other developments and whether and to what extent our efforts to respond will be effective. 

 Certain business trends have had a positive impact on our business and industry. These trends include our clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing interactive technologies and new media outlets. Additionally, in an effort to gain greater efficiency and effectiveness from their total marketing budgets, clients are increasingly requiring greater coordination of marketing activities and concentrating these activities with a smaller number of service providers. We believe these trends have benefitted our business in the past and, over the medium and long term, will continue to provide a competitive advantage to us. 

 In 2011, barring unforeseen events and excluding foreign exchange impacts, we expect our revenues to increase as a result of continuing increases in client spending and the contribution of several small acquisitions we completed in the fourth quarter of 2010. We will continue to identify acquisition candidates that will build upon the core capabilities of our strategic business platforms, expand our operations in the emerging markets and enhance our capabilities to leverage new technologies. In early February 2011, we acquired a controlling interest in the Clemenger Group, our affiliate in Australia and New Zealand. The additional 27% acquired brings our ownership up to almost 75%. In connection with this transaction, in the first quarter of 2011 we expect to record a non-cash gain of approximately $120 million resulting from the remeasurement of the carrying value of our equity interest to the acquisition date fair value. We believe that this acquisition will help us further develop our combined businesses throughout the Asia Pacific region. 

We have an objective of improving margins to 2007 levels. In connection with achieving this goal, we are in the process of a strategic review of our businesses that is focused on improving our strategic position and operations. As part of this process, we are evaluating our agencies to identify non-core and underperforming businesses that need to be repositioned or considered for disposal. We expect that these actions will reduce revenue in the range of $250 million to $300 million on an annual basis. We believe that on an annual basis, the reduction in revenue will approximately equal the increase in revenue from our recent acquisitions. We are also pursuing numerous operational consolidations to further drive efficiencies in our back office functions. As a result of the actions to be taken in connection with our strategic review, in the first quarter of 2011 we expect to incur charges ranging from $90 million to $110 million for severance, lease termination and asset impairment costs. 

 10 

 Given our size and breadth, we manage our business by monitoring several financial indicators. The key indicators that we analyze are revenue and operating expenses. 

 We analyze revenue growth by reviewing the components and mix of the growth, including growth by major geographic location, growth by discipline, growth from currency fluctuations, growth from acquisitions and growth from our largest clients, and growth by client industry group. 

 In recent years, our revenue has been divided almost evenly between our domestic and international operations. In 2010, our revenue increased 7.0%, of which 0.1% was related to changes in foreign exchange rates, 0.5% was related to acquisitions, net of dispositions and 6.4% was from organic growth. Across our geographic markets revenue increased 8.2% in the U.S., 4.3% in the U.K. and 18.7% in our other markets, primarily Asia and Latin America, while in our Euro markets revenue decreased 3.6%. The increase in revenue in 2010 compared to 2009, in our four fundamental disciplines was: traditional media advertising, 7.1%; CRM, 6.5%; public relations, 6.5% and specialty communications, 9.2%. 

 We measure operating expenses in two distinct cost categories: salary and service costs, and office and general expenses. Salary and service costs are primarily comprised of employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs. Office and general expenses are primarily comprised of rent and occupancy costs, technology costs, depreciation and amortization and other overhead expenses. Each of our agencies requires professionals with a skill set that is similar across our disciplines. At the core of this skill set is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and their selling proposition, and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience. The facility requirements of our agencies are similar across geographic regions and disciplines, and their technology requirements are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. 

 Because we are a service business, we monitor salary and service costs and office and general costs as a percentage of revenue. Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue. Salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased to 73.5% in 2010 compared to 72.1% in 2009. The increase in salary and service costs resulted primarily from a combination of a change in our business mix and increased compensation costs, primarily related to freelance labor and incentive compensation, partially offset by a decrease in severance costs. Office and general expenses are less directly linked to changes in our revenue than salary and service costs. Office and general expenses decreased to 14.9% of revenue in 2010 compared to 16.2% in 2009. 

 Net income - Omnicom Group Inc. in 2010 increased $34.7 million or 4.4% to $827.7 million from $793.0 million in 2009. The period-over-period increase in net income - Omnicom Group Inc. is principally due to the factors described above, partially offset by an increase in pre-tax net interest expense for 2010 of $9.1 million. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. increased 6.7 % to $2.70 in 2010, as compared to $2.53 in the prior year period. The year-over-year increase in diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. is due to the factors described above as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. This reduction was the result of our purchases of our common stock during 2010, net of stock option exercise and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan. 

 11 

 Critical Accounting Policies and New Accounting Standards 

 Critical Accounting Policies 

 We have prepared the following summary of our critical accounting policies to assist the reader in better understanding our financial statements and the related discussion in this MD&A. We believe that the following policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their application and represent the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our financial statements. Readers are encouraged to consider this summary together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, including our discussion in Note 3 setting forth our accounting policies in greater detail, for a more complete understanding of critical accounting policies discussed below. 

 Estimates: Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and require us to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities including valuation allowances for receivables and deferred tax assets, accruals for incentive compensation and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. A fair value approach is used in testing goodwill for impairment and when evaluating our cost-method investments to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. 

 Acquisitions and Goodwill: We have made and expect to continue to make selective acquisitions. In making acquisitions, the price we pay is based on an evaluation of various factors, including specialized know-how, reputation, competitive position, geographic coverage and service offerings, as well as our experience and judgment. 

 Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method and, accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired business are recorded at their acquisition date fair values. In circumstances where control is obtained and less than 100% of an entity is acquired, we record 100% of the goodwill acquired. Acquisition related costs, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other costs are expensed as incurred. Any liability for contingent purchase price obligations (earn-outs) are recorded at the acquisition date at fair value. Changes in the fair value of the earn-out liability are recorded in our results of operations. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in our results of operations from the acquisition date. In 2010, we completed seven acquisitions of new subsidiaries and made additional investments in businesses in which we had an existing minority ownership interest. Total goodwill additions from these transactions were $123.6 million. In addition and unrelated to the acquisitions completed in 2010, we made or accrued contingent purchase price payments of $117.2 million, which were included in goodwill. 

 A summary of our contingent purchase price obligations for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 is discussed in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this MD&A. The amount of contingent purchase price obligations is based on future performance. Contingent purchase price obligations for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009 are accrued, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, when the contingency is resolved and payment is certain. 

 Our acquisition strategy is focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various strategic business platforms and agency brands through the expansion of their geographic reach and/or their service capabilities to better serve our clients. Additional key factors we consider include the competitive position and specialized know-how of the acquisition targets. Accordingly, as is typical in most service businesses, a substantial portion of the intangible asset value we acquire is the know-how of the people, which is treated as part of goodwill and is not valued separately. For each acquisition, we undertake a detailed review to identify other intangible assets and a valuation is performed for all such identified assets. A significant portion of the identifiable intangible assets acquired is derived from customer relationships, including the related customer contracts, as well as trade names. In valuing these identified intangible assets, we typically use an income approach and consider comparable market participant measurements. The expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy. 

 We evaluate goodwill for impairment at least annually at the end of the second quarter of the year. We identified our regional reporting units as components of our operating segments, which are our five agency networks. The regional reporting units of each agency network are  

 12 

 responsible for the agencies in their region. They report to the segment managers and facilitate the administrative and logistical requirements of our client-centric strategy for delivering services to clients in their regions. We have concluded that for each of our operating segments, their regional reporting units had similar economic characteristics and should be aggregated for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment at the operating segment level. Our conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the aggregation criteria set forth in the ASC. Consistent with our fundamental business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In addition, the agencies within our regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics, as the main economic components of each agency are employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs associated with providing professional services and office and general costs, which include rent and occupancy costs, technology costs that are generally limited to purchased computers, servers and off-the-shelf software and other overhead costs. Finally, the expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies and regions as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy. 

 Estimates and Assumptions - Goodwill Impairment Review: We use the following valuation methodologies to determine the fair value of our reporting units: (1) the income approach which utilizes discounted expected future cash flows, (2) comparative market participant multiples for EBITDA (earnings before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization), and (3) when available, consideration of recent and similar purchase acquisition transactions. 

 In applying the income approach, we use estimates to derive the expected discounted cash flows (“DCF”) for each reporting unit that serves as the basis of our valuation. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth and operating margin, EBITDA, tax rates, capital expenditures, weighted average cost of capital and related discount rates and expected long-term cash flow growth rates. All these estimates and assumptions are affected by conditions specific to our businesses, economic conditions related to the industry in which we operate, as well as conditions in the global economy. The assumptions which have the most significant effect on our valuations derived using a DCF methodology are: (1) the expected long-term growth rate of our reporting units’ cash flows and (2) the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”). 

 The range of assumptions used for the long-term growth rate and WACC in our evaluation as of June 30, 2010 and 2009 were:  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Long-term growth rates represent our estimate of a conservative long-term growth rate for the industry in which we operate and the global economy. The average historical revenue growth rate of our reporting units for the past nine years was approximately 7.7% and the average nominal GDP growth of the countries comprising our major markets that account for substantially all of our revenue (“Average Nominal GDP”) was 4.9% over the same period. We considered this history when determining the long-term growth rates to be used in our annual impairment test at June 30, 2010. We believe marketing expenditures over the long term have a high correlation to GDP. We also believe, based on our historical performance, that our long-term growth rate will exceed Average Nominal GDP growth. For our annual test as of June 30, 2010, beginning in 2016, we used an estimated long-term growth rate of 4.0% for all of our reporting units. 

 When performing our annual impairment test as of June 30, 2010 and estimating the future cash flows of all of our reporting units, we also considered the changes in the economic outlook in mid-year 2010. We experienced an increase in our revenue in the first half of 2010 of 6.1%, of which 2.0% was due to foreign exchange movements. This led us to estimate growth rates for the subsequent five years that reflect current business conditions and increase gradually throughout this period. 

 The risk-adjusted discount rate used in our DCF analysis represents the estimated WACC for each of our reporting units. The WACC is comprised of (1) a risk-free rate of return, (2) a business risk index ascribed to us and to companies in our industry comparable to our reporting units based on a market derived variable that measures the volatility of the share price of equity securities relative to the volatility of the overall equity market, (3) an equity risk premium that is based on the rate of return on equity of publicly traded companies with business  

 13 

 characteristics comparable to our reporting units, and (4) the current after-tax market rate of return on debt of companies with business characteristics similar to our reporting units, each weighted by the relative market value percentages of our equity and debt. The reduction in the WACC used at June 30, 2010 compared to June 30, 2009 was primarily the result of a decrease in the long-term U.S. Treasury bond, the risk-free rate of return used. 

 Sensitivity Analysis and Conclusion - Goodwill Impairment Review: Consistent with our fundamental business strategy, the agencies within our reporting units serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In addition, the agencies within our reporting units have similar economic characteristics, as the main economic components of each agency are employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs associated with providing professional services, and office and general costs, which include rent and occupancy costs, technology costs and other overhead costs. 

 Our reporting units do vary in size with respect to revenue and the amount of debt allocated to them. These differences drive the variations in fair value among our reporting units. In addition, these differences as well as differences in book value, including goodwill, cause the variations in the amount by which fair value exceeds book value among the reporting units. The reporting unit goodwill balances and debt vary by reporting unit primarily because our three legacy agency networks were acquired at the formation of Omnicom and were accounted for as a pooling of interests that did not result in any additional debt or goodwill being recorded. The remaining two agency networks, including Reporting Unit 5, were built through a combination of internal growth and acquisitions that were accounted for as purchase transactions and as a result, they have a relatively higher amount of goodwill and debt. 

 The decline in the fair value of our reporting units that would need to occur in order to fail step one of our goodwill impairment test (the “Threshold”) is as follows (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Based on the analysis described above, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired as of June 30, 2010 because the fair values of each of our reporting units were substantially in excess of their respective net book values. Notwithstanding our belief that the assumptions we used in our impairment testing for our WACC and long-term growth rate are reasonable, we performed a sensitivity analysis for each of our reporting units. The results of this sensitivity analysis for our annual impairment test as of June 30, 2010 revealed that if our WACC was increased by 1%, and/or our long-term growth rate was decreased by 1%, the fair value of each of our reporting units would continue to be substantially in excess of their respective net book values and pass step one of the impairment test. 

 We plan to continue to perform our impairment test at the end of the second quarter of each year unless certain events or circumstances trigger the need for an interim evaluation for impairment. The estimates we use in testing our goodwill for impairment do not constitute forecasts or projections of future results of operations, but rather are estimates and assumptions based on historical results and assessments of macroeconomic factors affecting our reporting units. We believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, but they are subject to change from period to period. Actual results of operations and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our discounted cash flow valuation and it is possible that differences could be material. A change in the estimates we use could result in a decline in the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units from the amounts derived as of our latest valuation and could cause us to fail step one of our goodwill impairment test if the estimated fair value for the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including its goodwill. A large decline in estimated fair value of a reporting unit could result in a non-cash impairment charge and may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. 

 Additional information about acquisitions and goodwill appears in Notes 3 and 5 to our consolidated financial statements. 

 14 

Revenue Recognition: We recognize revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and applicable SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins. Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services or a rate per hour or equivalent basis. Revenue is realized when the service is performed in accordance with terms of each client arrangement, upon completion of the earnings process and when collection is reasonably assured. We record revenue net of sales, use and value added taxes. Certain of our businesses earn a portion of their revenue as commissions based upon performance in accordance with client arrangements. These principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client arrangements in each of our service disciplines – traditional media advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. 

More specifically, our policy requires the following key elements to be satisfied prior to recognizing revenue: persuasive evidence of an arrangement must exist; the sales price must be fixed or determinable; delivery, performance and acceptance must be in accordance with the client arrangement; and collection is reasonably assured. Because the services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to clients in similar ways, all of the key elements in revenue recognition apply to client arrangements in each of our four disciplines. 

In the majority of our businesses, we act as an agent and record revenue equal to the net amount retained, when the fee or commission is earned. Although we may bear credit risk in respect of these activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that we act as an agent on their behalf. In these cases, costs incurred with external suppliers are excluded from our revenue. In certain arrangements, we act as principal and we contract directly with suppliers for media payments and third-party production costs and are responsible for payment. In these arrangements, revenue is recorded at the gross amount billed since revenue has been earned for the sale of goods or services. 

A portion of our client contractual arrangements include performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to both quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize this portion of revenue when the specific quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative goals is determined by our clients. Additional information about our revenue recognition policy appears in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Employee Share-Based Compensation: Employee share-based compensation is measured at the grant date fair value based on the fair value of the award. We use the Black-Scholes option valuation model to determine the fair value of share-based compensation awards. This valuation model uses several assumptions and estimates such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used to determine the fair value, our actual results of operations and cash flows would likely differ from the estimates used and it is possible that differences and changes could be material. Additional information about these assumptions and estimates appears in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Share-based employee compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $69.3 million, $78.6 million and $59.3 million, respectively. Information about our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. 

New Accounting Standards 

Additional information regarding new accounting guidance can be found in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements provides a summary of our significant accounting policies. 

15 

Financial Results from Operations - 2010 Compared with 2009 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Revenue: Our 2010 revenue increased 7.0% to $12,542.5 million from $11,720.7 million in 2009. Foreign exchange impacts increased revenue by $17.1 million, acquisitions net of dispositions increased revenue by $55.6 million and organic growth increased revenue by $749.1 million. The components of total 2010 revenue changes in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”) were (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:   

The foreign exchange impact is calculated by first converting the current period’s local currency revenue using the average exchange rates from the equivalent prior period to arrive at a constant currency revenue ($12,525.4 million for the Total column in the table for the year). The foreign exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S. Dollars and the current period revenue in constant currency ($12.542.5 million less $12,525.4 million for the Total column in the table for the year).   

The acquisition component is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses, less revenue of any business included in the prior period revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.   

Organic growth is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.   

The percentage change is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component ($11,720.7 million for the Total column in the table for the year).    

16 

Revenue in 2010 and the percentage change from 2009 in our primary geographic markets were (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Foreign exchange impacts increased our 2010 revenue by $17.1 million. The most significant impacts resulted from the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real, Australian Dollar, South African Rand and Japanese Yen, partially offset by the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound. 

Assuming exchange rates at February 15, 2011 remain unchanged, we expect foreign exchange impacts to increase our full year 2011 revenue by approximately 1%. 

Additional geographic information relating to our business is contained in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Due to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year. The net result in 2010 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest client represented 3.0% and 3.1% of our revenue in 2010 and 2009, respectively. No other client represented more than 2.4% of revenue in 2010 or more than 2.5% of revenue in 2009. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 18.0% and 50.6% of our 2010 revenue, respectively, and 17.8% and 50.4% of our 2009 revenue, respectively. 

Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient branding activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy, crisis communications, custom publishing, database management, digital and interactive marketing, direct marketing, entertainment marketing, environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial / corporate business-to-business advertising, graphic arts, healthcare communications, instore design, investor relations, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile marketing services, multi-cultural marketing, nonprofit marketing, organizational communications, package design, product placement, promotional marketing, public affairs, public relations, recruitment communications, reputation consulting, retail marketing, search engine marketing, social media marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into four disciplines: traditional media advertising; CRM; public relations; and specialty communications. Revenue for 2010 and 2009 and revenue change for our four disciplines were: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

17 

Operating Expenses: Our 2010 operating expenses increased $736.5 million, or 7.1%, to $11,082.3 million from $10,345.8 million in 2009, as shown below. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Salary and services costs are comprised of employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs. Salary and service costs increased $763.6 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased to 73.5% in 2010 compared to 72.1% in 2009. This increase resulted primarily from a combination of a change in our business mix and increased compensation costs, primarily related to freelance labor and incentive compensation, partially offset by a decrease in severance costs. 

Office and general expenses decreased $27.1 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Office and general expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased 1.3% in 2010 compared to 2009. These costs are comprised of rent and occupancy costs, technology costs, depreciation and amortization and other overhead expenses, and are less directly linked to changes in our revenue. Included in office and general expenses is a $26.0 million non-cash gain resulting from the remeasurement to fair value of our existing ownership interests in affiliates in the Middle East and South America in which we acquired a controlling interest, bringing our ownership up to 68.6% and 100%, respectively. Further, we recorded a $13.0 million charge primarily related to fixed asset impairment and other costs on the disposal of certain underperforming businesses in Europe. 

Net Interest Expense: Net interest expense increased to $109.8 million in 2010, as compared to $100.7 million in 2009. Gross interest expense increased $12.5 million to $134.7 million. The increase was primarily due to increased interest resulting from our 6.25% Senior Notes issued in July 2009, our 4.45% Senior Notes issued in August 2010 and amortization of supplemental interest payments made on our Convertible Notes due 2038. This increase was partially offset by lower interest expense resulting from no borrowings under our credit facility during 2010 and decreases in amortization of supplemental interest payments made in prior periods on our Convertible Notes due 2031 and our Convertible Notes due 2032, as well as a net reduction in interest expense on our 2016 Notes resulting from our interest rate swap entered into in August 2010. Gross interest income increased $3.4 million to $24.9 million in 2010. This increase was attributable to higher foreign cash balances available for investment and higher investment rates. 

See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a discussion of our indebtedness and related matters. 

Income Taxes: Our 2010 consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.1%, which increased slightly from the 2009 rate of 34.0%. 

Net Income Per Common Share - Omnicom Group Inc.: For the foregoing reasons, our net income - Omnicom Group Inc. in 2010 increased $34.7 million, or 4.4%, to $827.7 million from $793.0 million in 2009. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. increased 6.7% to $2.70 in 2010, as compared to $2.53 in the prior year. The year-over-year increase in diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. is due to the factors described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. This reduction was the result of our purchases of our common stock during 2010, net of stock option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock purchase plan. 

18 

Financial Results from Operations - 2009 Compared with 2008 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Fourth Quarter 2009: In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a net gain of $32.4 million related to transactions with affiliated companies. The net gain was comprised of a $41.3 million non-cash gain resulting from the remeasurement to fair value of our ownership interest in an affiliated company in which we acquired a controlling interest, bringing our ownership up to 85%, in December 2009 and was partially offset by impairment charges of $8.9 million principally related to the loss on the sale of an investment in an affiliated company in January 2010. Also in the fourth quarter of 2009, we took a charge of $33.2 million in connection with the loss in the quarter of a significant client in the automotive sector, primarily for severance and lease termination costs. Salary and service costs for 2009 reflect an increase in severance costs of $15.4 million related to the client loss. Office and general expenses for 2009 reflect a decrease of $14.6 million related to the remeasurement gain of $41.3 million, offset by lease termination costs of $17.8 million related to the client loss and the impairment charges of $8.9 million on investments in affiliated companies. 

Revenue: Our 2009 revenue decreased 12.3% to $11,720.7 million from $13,359.9 million in 2008. Foreign exchange impacts decreased revenue by $454.3 million, acquisitions net of dispositions, decreased revenue by $30.8 million and organic growth decreased revenue by $1,154.1 million. The components of total 2009 revenue changes in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”) were (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

19 

The components and percentages are calculated as follows:   

The foreign exchange impact is calculated by first converting the current period’s local currency revenue using the average exchange rates from the equivalent prior period to arrive at a constant currency revenue ($12,175.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year). The foreign exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S. Dollars and the current period revenue in constant currency ($11,720.7 million less $12,175.0 million for the Total column in the table for the year).   

The acquisition component is calculated by aggregating the applicable prior period revenue of the acquired businesses, less revenue of any business included in the prior period revenue that was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.   

Organic growth is calculated by subtracting both the foreign exchange and acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.   

The percentage change is calculated by dividing the individual component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component ($13,359.9 million for the Total column in the table for the year).    

Revenue in 2009 and the percentage change from 2008 in our primary geographic markets were (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For the full year 2009, foreign exchange impacts decreased our revenue by $454.3 million. Beginning late in the third quarter of 2008 and continuing through the third quarter of 2009, the U.S. Dollar strengthened against most other major currencies, such as the British Pound, Euro, Canadian Dollar, Brazilian Real and Australian Dollar. 

For the fourth quarter of 2009, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $130.5 million. The most significant impacts resulted from the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the British Pound, Euro, Brazilian Real, Australian Dollar, and Korean Won. 

Additional geographic information relating to our business is contained in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Due to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business from clients each year. The net result in 2009 was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest client represented 3.1% and 2.8% of our revenue in 2009 and 2008, respectively. No other client represented more than 2.5% of revenue in 2009 or more than 2.1% of revenue in 2008. Our ten largest and 100 largest clients represented 17.8% and 50.4% of our 2009 revenue, respectively, and 16.7% and 47.4% of our 2008 revenue, respectively. 

Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient branding activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy, crisis communications, custom publishing, database management, digital and interactive marketing, direct marketing, entertainment marketing, environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial / corporate business-to-business advertising, graphic arts, healthcare communications, instore design, investor relations, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile marketing services, multi-cultural marketing, nonprofit marketing, organizational communications, package design, product placement, promotional marketing, public affairs, public relations, recruitment communications, reputation consulting, retail marketing, search engine marketing, social media marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad  

20 

range of disciplines and group them into the four disciplines: traditional media advertising; CRM; public relations; and specialty communications. Revenue for 2009 and 2008 and revenue change for our four disciplines were: [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Operating Expenses: Our 2009 operating expenses decreased $1,324.7 million, or 11.4%, to $10,345.8 million from $11,670.5 million in 2008, as shown below. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Salary and services costs are comprised of employee compensation and related costs and direct service costs. Salary and service costs decreased $1,109.6 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This reflects actions we took to reduce our workforce and contain compensation related costs in the face of reduced client spending. Salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly to 72.1% in 2009 compared to 71.6% in 2008, principally due to the year-over-year increase in severance costs of $31.4 million that included severance costs recorded in the fourth quarter of $15.4 million related to the loss in the quarter of a client in the automotive sector. 

Office and general expenses represented 18.3% and 18.1% of our operating expenses in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Office and general expenses as a percentage of revenue increased 0.4% in 2009 compared to 2008. These costs are comprised of rent and occupancy costs, technology costs, depreciation and amortization and other overhead expenses, and are less directly linked to changes in our revenue. Excluding the net impact of the remeasurement gain, lease termination costs and impairment charges in the fourth quarter of 2009 totaling $14.6 million, office and general expenses decreased $200.5 million in 2009 compared to 2008. This decrease was primarily a result of our cost containment activities. 

Net Interest Expense: Our net interest expense increased to $100.7 million in 2009, as compared to $74.3 million in 2008. Gross interest expense decreased $2.4 million to $122.2 million. The decrease was primarily due to lower interest rates and lower borrowings under our credit facility and commercial paper issuances that substantially offset the increased interest resulting from our 6.25% Senior Notes issued on July 1, 2009. Our gross interest income decreased $28.8 million to $21.5 million in 2009. This decrease was attributable to lower investment rates and foreign exchange impacts on the interest earned on our foreign cash balances. 

See “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for a discussion of our indebtedness and related matters. 

Income Taxes: Our 2009 consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.0%, which is slightly higher than our 2008 rate of 33.6%. The increase in our effective tax rate was caused by higher foreign taxes, including a tax expense incurred in 2009 of $12.9 million due to the  

21 

resolution of an uncertain tax position for a foreign subsidiary. This was substantially offset by a reduction in income tax expense in 2009 of $11.0 million from the recognition of foreign income tax credits. 

Net Income Per Common Share - Omnicom Group Inc.: For the foregoing reasons, our net income - Omnicom Group Inc. in 2009 decreased $207.3 million, or 20.7%, to $793.0 million from $1,000.3 million in 2008. Diluted net income per common share - Omnicom Group Inc. decreased 19.4% to $2.53 in 2009, as compared to $3.14 in the prior year. This period-over-period decrease was smaller than the decrease in net income - Omnicom Group Inc. due to the reduction in our weighted average common shares outstanding. 

22 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

Cash Sources and Requirements, Including Contractual Obligations 

Historically, the majority of our non-discretionary cash requirements have been funded from operating cash flow, cash on hand and short-term investments. Working capital is our principal non-discretionary funding requirement. In addition, we have contractual obligations related to our senior notes and convertible notes, our recurring business operations, primarily related to lease obligations, as well as certain contingent acquisition obligations related to acquisitions made in prior years. 

Our principal discretionary cash requirements include dividend payments to our shareholders, payments for strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures and repurchases of our common stock. Our discretionary spending is funded from operating cash flow, cash on hand and short-term investments. In addition, depending on the level of discretionary spending, we may use other sources of available funding, such as the issuance of commercial paper and borrowing under our credit facility or other long-term borrowings to finance these activities. However, we expect that over the course of 2011 we should be able to fund both our discretionary and non-discretionary cash requirements without incurring additional long-term debt. 

We have a seasonal cash requirement, peaking during the second quarter, primarily due to the timing of payments for incentive compensation, income taxes and contingent acquisition obligations. This typically will result in a net borrowing requirement that decreases over the course of the year. We expect that all our treasury centers will have cash invested at the end of the calendar year. At December 31, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents increased by $701.7 million from December 31, 2009. The components of the increase in 2010 are (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Principal Cash Sources and Principal Discretionary Cash Uses amounts are non-GAAP financial measures. These amounts exclude changes in working capital and other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and redemptions used to fund working capital changes and discretionary cash uses. This presentation reflects the metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful for understanding our primary sources and primary uses of that cash flow. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. Additional information regarding our cash flows can be found in our consolidated financial statements. 

23 

Cash Management 

We manage our cash and liquidity centrally through our regional treasury centers in North America, Europe and Asia. The regional treasury centers are managed by our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries. Each day, operations with excess funds invest these funds with their regional treasury center. Likewise, operations that require funding borrow funds from their regional treasury center. The treasury centers aggregate the net position, which is either invested with or borrowed from third parties. To the extent that our treasury centers require liquidity, they have the ability to access local currency uncommitted lines of credit, our $2.0 billion credit facility or, depending on market conditions at the time, issue up to $1.5 billion of U.S. Dollar-denominated commercial paper. This process enables us to more efficiently manage our debt balances and effectively utilize our cash, as well as better manage our risk to foreign exchange changes. 

In certain countries where we either do not conduct treasury operations or it is not feasible for one of our treasury centers to fund net borrowing requirements on an intercompany basis, we arrange for uncommitted local credit lines in those countries. 

Our cash and cash equivalents increased $701.7 million and our short-term investments increased $3.5 million from the prior year. Short-term investments principally consist of time deposits with financial institutions that we expect to convert into cash in our current operating cycle, generally within one year. 

At December 31, 2010, $715.3 million of our cash and cash equivalents was held in the United States and the remainder was held internationally, primarily in Canada, the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. The majority of our offshore cash is available to us as a source of funds, net of any tax obligations or assessments. 

Unrepatriated cumulative earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries are considered to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. In managing our day-to-day liquidity and our long-term capital structure, we do not rely on the unrepatriated earnings as a source of funds. We have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes on these undistributed foreign earnings. Determination of the amount of this tax liability is based on the rate differential of the U.S. income taxes in excess of the foreign taxes on any remittances of the undistributed earnings and is not practicable because of the complexities associated with its hypothetical calculation. Changes in U.S. tax rules and regulations covering international operations and foreign tax credits may affect our future reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. 

During 2010, we opportunistically accessed the capital markets and issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.45% Senior Notes due August 15, 2020 and repurchased $66.5 million of our Convertible Notes. Our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments increased $705.2 million from the prior year end. As a result, our net debt position, which we define as total debt outstanding less cash and short-term investments, increased $213.3 million as compared to the prior year-end, as follows (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

24 

Net Debt is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe this presentation, together with the comparable U.S. GAAP measures, reflects one of the key metrics used by us to assess our cash management. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information presented in compliance with U.S. GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies. 

Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants 

In December 2010, we entered into a new credit facility expiring on December 9, 2013 with a consortium of banks led by Citibank, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America providing borrowing capacity of up to $2.0 billion as described in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. The credit facility replaced our $2.5 billion credit facility that was due to expire in June 2011. Our credit facility provides support for our commercial paper issuances, as well as back-up liquidity in the event any of our convertible notes are put back to us. During 2010 and 2009, we repurchased a total of $1,382.0 million of convertible notes that were put. At December 31, 2010, the outstanding convertible notes totaled $659.5 million. Depending on market conditions at the time, we typically fund our daily borrowing needs by issuing commercial paper, borrowing under our uncommitted lines of credit or borrowing under our credit facility. 

For the three years ended December 31, 2010, commercial paper issuances and borrowings under our committed credit facility were (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The combined maximum amount outstanding for our commercial paper and credit facility borrowings was $1,050.6 million for 2010, $1,757.8 million for 2009 and $1,254.2 million for 2008. 

At December 31, 2010, short-term borrowings of $50.2 million outstanding were comprised of bank overdrafts and credit lines by our international subsidiaries. The bank overdrafts and credit lines are treated as unsecured loans pursuant to the bank agreements supporting the facilities. 

Our credit facility contains financial covenants that restrict our ability to incur indebtedness as defined in the agreement. These financial covenants limit the ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA (under our credit agreement, EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more than 3.0 times. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with these covenants, as our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 1.9 times and our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was 12.7 times. In addition, our credit facility does not limit our ability to declare or pay dividends. 

25 

In August 2010, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.45% Senior Notes due August 15, 2020. The proceeds from the issuance before deducting underwriting commissions and offering expenses were $996.5 million. 

Standard and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt BBB+, Moody’s Investors Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our short-term debt credit ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Our outstanding 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016, 6.25% Senior Notes due July 15, 2019, 4.45% Senior Notes due August 15, 2020 (collectively “Senior Notes”), convertible notes and credit facility do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash payments should our debt credit ratings be downgraded. The interest rates and fees on our credit facility, however, will increase if our long-term debt credit ratings are lowered. 

Our Senior Notes and convertible notes were co-issued by us and two of our wholly owned finance subsidiaries, Omnicom Capital Inc. (“OCI”) and Omnicom Finance Inc. (“OFI”), as co-obligors. Our Senior Notes and convertible notes are a joint and several liability of the issuer and the co-obligors and we unconditionally guarantee the obligations of OCI and OFI with respect to the Senior Notes and the convertible notes. Our Senior Notes are senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment with all existing and future unsecured senior indebtedness. 

OCI and OFI provide funding for our operations by incurring debt and lending the proceeds to our operating subsidiaries. OCI and OFI’s assets consist of intercompany loans made to our operating subsidiaries and the related interest receivable. There are no restrictions in the Senior Notes or convertible note indentures on the ability of OCI, OFI or us to obtain funds from our subsidiaries through dividends, loans or advances. 

In June 2010, we amended the indenture relating to our 2038 Notes to permit us to redeem our 2038 Notes on June 17, 2013 and June 15, 2018. After June 15, 2018, we can redeem the 2038 Notes at any time. Additionally, holders of $403.2 million of our 2038 Notes agreed to waive their right to contingent cash interest, if payable, from December 15, 2010 through and including December 15, 2013. Holders of $3.4 million of our 2038 Notes did not put their notes to us for purchase and did not consent to the amendments and $60.8 million aggregate principal amount of the 2038 Notes were repurchased and retired. 

In August 2010, we entered into a series of interest rate swap agreements to hedge the risk of changes in fair value of the $1 billion aggregate principal amount of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016 (“2016 Notes”) attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. Under the terms of these agreements, we will receive fixed interest rate payments and will make variable interest rate payments on the total principal amount of the 2016 Notes. These agreements effectively convert the 2016 Notes from fixed rate debt to floating rate debt from the inception of the swaps through the maturity of the 2016 Notes. The swaps qualify as a hedge for accounting purposes at inception and at December 31, 2010 and are designated as a fair value hedge on the 2016 Notes. The variable interest rate we pay is based on the one month and three month U.S. LIBOR rate, flat. The fixed rate we receive is 1.766%. The swaps mature on April 15, 2016, the same day as the 2016 Notes. The swaps are recorded in our balance sheet at fair value and the change in the fair value of the swaps and the change in the fair value of the 2016 Notes (the hedged item) are recorded in earnings as an adjustment to interest expense. We will continue to evaluate these arrangements for hedge accounting treatment. At December 31, 2010, we recorded a liability of $24.2 million representing the fair value of the swaps and we also recorded a decrease in the carrying value of the 2016 Notes of $26.3 million reflecting the change in fair value of the 2016 Notes from the inception of the fair value hedge. The net change in fair value of the swap and the carrying value of the 2016 Notes and any hedge ineffectiveness was not material to our results of operations. 

From time to time, we have made non-contractual supplemental interest payments to holders of our convertible notes who did not put their notes back to us for repurchase on the respective put date or who agreed to certain amendments to the convertible note indentures. The supplemental interest payments are amortized to interest expense ratably over the period to the next put date. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. 

26 

Holders of our convertible notes exercised their right to put their notes to us for repurchase at par on the respective put date. For the two years ended December 31, 2010, the following repurchases were made (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

At December 31, 2010, outstanding debt and amounts available under our credit facility were (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Looking forward to 2011, we expect to continue to use our cash flow from operations to pay dividends and make capital expenditures, as well as to repurchase our common stock and fund acquisitions. Additional information about our indebtedness is included in Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Credit Markets and Availability of Credit 

In December 2010, we entered into a new three-year credit facility providing borrowing capacity of $2.0 billion. The credit facility replaced our $2.5 billion credit facility that was due to expire in June 2011. During the term of the prior credit facility, a maximum of $2.0 billion of our convertible notes could have been put back to us. During the term of the new credit facility, a maximum of $660 million of convertible notes can be put back to us. Accordingly, we decreased the amount of our new credit facility by $500 million to $2.0 billion. We believe the reduced amount is sufficient to satisfy the potential put of the total amount of convertible notes outstanding, as well as provide the required support for issuances under our $1.5 billion commercial paper program. 

We will continue to take actions available to us to respond to changing economic conditions and we will continue to actively manage our discretionary expenditures. We will continue to monitor and manage the level of credit made available to our clients. We believe that these actions, in addition to the availability of our $2.0 billion credit facility, are sufficient to fund our near-term working capital needs and our discretionary spending. For additional information about our credit facility, see Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In funding our day-to-day liquidity, we have historically been a participant in the commercial paper market. We expect to continue funding our day-to-day liquidity need through the commercial paper market. However, prior disruptions in the credit markets led to periods of illiquidity in the commercial paper market and higher credit spreads. During these periods of disruption, to mitigate these conditions and to fund our day-to-day liquidity, we used our uncommitted lines of credit and borrowed under our credit facility. We will continue to closely monitor our liquidity and the credit markets. We cannot predict with any certainty the impact on us of any future disruptions in the credit markets. 

27 

Contractual Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments 

We enter into numerous contractual and commercial undertakings in the normal course of business. The following tables should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements. 

Contractual obligations at December 31, 2010 are (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Contractual commitments at December 31, 2010 are (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The liability for uncertain tax positions is subject to uncertainty as to when or if the liability will be paid. We have assigned the liability to the period(s) presented based on our judgment as to when these liabilities will be resolved by the appropriate taxing authorities. 

Holders of the convertible notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate face amount of the notes then outstanding for par value at certain dates in the future. The next date holders of our 2032 Notes may put the notes back to us for cash is August 2011. The next date on which holders of our 2038 Notes may put the notes back to us for cash is June 2013. If these rights were exercised at the earliest possible future date $252.7 million of convertible notes could be due in 2011 and $ 406.7 million could be due in 2013. At December 31, 2010, we classified our convertible notes as long-term in our consolidated balance sheet because our credit facility does not expire until December 2013 and it is our intention to fund any put with our credit facility. 

In the normal course of business, we often enter into contractual commitments with media providers and agreements with production companies on behalf of our clients at levels that substantially exceed our revenue in connection with the services we provide. Many of our agencies purchase media for our clients and act as an agent for a disclosed principal. These commitments are included in accounts payable when the media services are delivered by the media providers. While operating practices vary by country, media type and media vendor, in the United States and certain foreign markets many of our contracts with media providers specify that if our client defaults on its payment obligation, then we are not liable to the media providers under the legal theory of sequential liability until we have been paid for the media by our client. In other countries, we manage our risk in other ways, including evaluating and monitoring our clients’ creditworthiness and, in many cases, requiring credit insurance or payment in advance. Further, in cases where we are committed to a media purchase and it becomes apparent that a client may be unable to pay for the media, options are potentially available to us in the marketplace, in addition to those cited above to mitigate the potential loss, including negotiating with media providers. In addition, our agencies incur production costs on behalf of clients. We usually act as an agent for a disclosed principal in the procurement of these services. We manage the risk of payment default by the client by having the production companies be subject to sequential liability or requiring at least partial payment in advance. However, the agreements entered into, as well as the production costs incurred are unique to each client. We have not experienced a material loss related to media purchases or production costs incurred on behalf of our clients. However, the risk of a material loss could significantly increase in a severe economic downturn. 

28 

 Pension and Postemployment Funding: The unfunded benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension plans and postemployment arrangements at December 31, 2010 was $180.8 million. During 2010, we contributed $7.5 million to our defined benefit pension plans and paid $10.0 million in benefits for our postemployment arrangements. We do not expect these payments to increase significantly in 2011. 

 Contingent Acquisition Obligations: Certain of our acquisitions are structured with contingent purchase price obligations, often referred to as earn-outs. We utilize contingent purchase price structures in an effort to minimize the risk associated with potential future negative changes in the performance of the acquired business during the post-acquisition transition period. These payments are not contingent upon future employment. At December 31, 2010, the amount of future contingent purchase price payments that we would be required to pay for acquisitions completed prior to January 1, 2009, assuming that the businesses perform over the relevant future periods at their current profit levels, is approximately $115 million. The ultimate amounts payable cannot be predicted with reasonable certainty because they are dependent upon future results of operations of the subject businesses and are subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have not recorded a liability for these items in our consolidated balance sheet since the definitive amount was not determinable or distributable prior to January 1, 2009. Actual results can differ from these estimates and the actual amounts that we pay are likely to be different from these estimates. Our obligations change from period to period primarily as a result of payments made during the current period, changes in the performance of the acquired businesses and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These differences could be significant. The contingent purchase price obligations as of December 31, 2010, calculated assuming that the acquired businesses perform over the relevant future periods at their current profit levels, are (dollars in millions): [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Contingent purchase price obligations related to acquisitions completed subsequent to December 31, 2008 are recorded as liabilities at fair value in our consolidated balance sheet and are remeasured at each reporting period. Changes in fair value of the liability are recorded in our results of operations. These liabilities are not included in the above amounts. 

 29 

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk