Item 1A. Risk Factors

You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. This annual report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below.

Risks Relating to the CSRA Business

Contracts with the U.S. federal government and its prime contractors account for substantially all of our revenue and earnings. If our relationship with such agencies are harmed, our future revenue and operating results would decline. 

We generated approximately 91.1% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended April 1, 2016 from sales to the U.S. federal government either as a prime contractor or subcontractor to other contractors. We generated approximately 50.9% of our total revenues from the DoD (including all branches of the U.S. military) and Intelligence Community and approximately 40.2% of our total revenues from civilian agencies. We expect to continue to derive substantially all of our revenues from work performed under U.S. federal government contracts.

Accordingly, events that compromise our relationship with the U.S. government generally or any U.S. government agency that we serve could cause our revenue to decline. Among the key factors in maintaining our relationship with U.S. government agencies are our performance on contracts and task orders, the strength of our professional reputation and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, the mishandling or the perception of mishandling of sensitive information, such as a failure to maintain adequate protection against security breaches, including those resulting from cyber attacks, could harm our relationship with our customers.

U.S. government spending and mission priorities could change in a manner that adversely affects our future revenue and limits our growth prospects.

Because we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from contracts with the U.S. federal government, we believe that the success and development of our business will continue to depend on our successful participation in U.S. federal government contract programs. Changes in U.S. federal government budgetary priorities could directly affect our financial performance. A significant decline in government expenditures, a shift of expenditures away from programs that we support or a change in U.S. federal government contracting policies could cause U.S. federal government agencies to reduce their purchases under contracts, to exercise their right to terminate contracts at any 

13

time without penalty or not to exercise contract options. Consequently, we closely monitor federal budget activities, legislative and contracting trends and activities, and we continue to take these factors into consideration when examining our business strategies.

We review continuously our operations in an attempt to identify those programs that could be at risk, which allows us to formulate appropriate contingency plans. We have experienced reduced funding for some of the programs we support, and may see further reductions in the future. While the U.S. federal government 2015 Bipartisan Budget Agreement set funding levels for both GFY 2016 and GFY 2017. Accordingly, we do not expect another threatened government shut down by Congress during this period. However, the U.S. federal government continues to face significant fiscal and economic challenges such as financial deficits and the debt ceiling limit, which could result in reduced funding for the programs that we service. In addition, the short-term funding stability afforded by the GFY 2015 Bipartisan Budget Agreement may not extend beyond GFY 2017. As a result, funding for the programs that we support in GFY 2018 and beyond remain uncertain, and any significant reduction in the budget for such programs could have a material adverse effect on our results and financial condition. 

Our business could be adversely affected by delays caused by our competitors protesting major contracts awarded to us, resulting in delay of the initiation of work under such contracts.

Our contracts and subcontracts are composed of a wide range of contract types, including firm fixed-price, cost reimbursement, and time-and-materials. Some contracts are ordering vehicles, including indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity and government-wide acquisition contracts such as General Services Administration (“GSA”) schedule contracts, and orders under these contracts include firm fixed-price, time-and-materials or cost reimbursable types. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. The U.S. federal government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a competitive bidding process, including indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity, GSA schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition, increased pricing pressure and a rise in the number of protests from unsuccessful bidders. It can take many months to resolve protests by one or more of our competitors of contract awards we receive. A bid protest may result in loss of contract or task order awarded to us. Even where we do not lose the awarded contract, the resulting delay in the startup of the work may cause actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated. 

Our U.S. government contracts may be terminated by the government at any time and our failure to replace any terminated could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 

We derive substantially all of our revenue from U.S. government contracts that typically span one or more base years and one or more option years. The option periods typically cover more than half of a contract’s potential duration. U.S. government agencies generally have the right not to exercise these option periods. In addition, our contracts typically also contain provisions permitting a government customer to terminate the contract for its convenience. A decision not to exercise option periods or to terminate contracts for convenience could result in significant revenue shortfalls from those anticipated. Virtually all of our U.S. government contracts contain one of the FAR clauses for termination for convenience. If the government elects to exercise its right to terminate for conveniences, whether for all or a portion of a contract or task order, we would lose all of our expected revenues associated with the terminated work and we may recover only our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. During the last five years, our government customers have terminated a contract or task order for convenience eight times resulting in an average loss of less than 1% per year of our total revenue during that period. The reasons for the convenience terminations included termination for convenience of the prime contractor because of reassigning work to another contractor due to organizational conflicts of interest (“OCI”); in-sourcing of work by the agency; a decision by the Executive Office of the President to restructure the corresponding government program; and loss of program funding by the agency customer. Separately, if the government terminates a contract due to our default, we may be unable to recover our incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination, and instead may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items and services from another source. As is common with government contractors, we have experienced and continue to experience occasional performance issues under certain of our contracts. Depending upon the value of the matters affected, a performance 

14

problem that impacts our performance of a program or contract could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 

Our markets are highly competitive, and our financial performance relies on our ability to compete and win new business. In addition, our current contracts are recompeted from time to time, and we are not assured of winning these recompetes. In these circumstances where we do not win those recompetes,and those lost contracts are not replaced, out operating results may differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.

The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants and are highly competitive. Many of our competitors may compete more effectively than we can because they are larger, better financed and better known companies than we are. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and customer preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, we may lose certain recompetes and not win enough new business to replace them, causing our revenue to decline. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customer needs. As a result, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. There is also a significant industry trend toward consolidation, which may result in the emergence of companies which are better able to compete against us. The results of these competitive pressures could cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.

U.S. federal government contracts contain numerous provisions that are unfavorable to us.

U.S. federal government contracts contain provisions and are subject to laws and regulations that give the government rights and remedies, some of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including allowing the government to:

•cancel multi-year contracts and any related orders if the underlying funds for any subsequent year become unavailable;

•claim rights in systems and software that we develop;

•suspend or debar us from doing business with the U.S. federal government;

•impose fines and penalties on us, and subject us to criminal prosecution;

•control or prohibit the export of our data and technology; and

•impose special handling and control requirements for controlled unclassified information.

Certain of our contracts also contain OCI clauses that limit our ability to compete for or perform certain other contracts. OCIs arise any time we engage in activities that (1) make us unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the government; (2) impair or might impair our objectivity in performing contract work; or (3) provide us with an unfair competitive advantage. For example, when we work on the design of a particular system, we may be precluded from competing for the contract to develop and install that system or supporting a prime contractor in doing so. We have divested lines of business in the past to avoid or mitigate OCIs and may do so again in the future. We continue to evaluate the OCI provisions in our contracts, including those of SRA, to determine the potential effects of those clauses on future business opportunities. An OCI clause that precludes our participation in or performance of a program or contract, combined with our inability to mitigate or avoid OCI related issues, could result in a lost business opportunity, which could, in turn, cause our operating results and financial condition to be adversely effected.

15

We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations, some of which are complex, and our failure to comply could result in fines or civil or criminal penalties, or suspension or debarment, which could materially and adversely effect our results of operations. 

As a U.S. government contractor, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government contracts which affect how we do business with our customers. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on our business and our failure to comply with them may lead to civil or criminal penalties, termination of our U.S. government contracts, and/or suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. government agencies. Some significant statutes and regulations that affect us include:

•the FAR and agency supplements, which regulate the formation, administration and performance of U.S. federal government contracts;

•the Truth in Negotiations Act, which requires certification and disclosure of cost and pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;

•the Procurement Integrity Act, which regulates access to competitor bid and proposal information and government source selection information, and our ability to provide compensation to certain former government officials;

•the False Claims Act, which provides for substantial penalties for violations, including for submission of a false or fraudulent claim to the U.S. federal government for payment or approval; and

•the Cost Accounting Standards, which impose accounting requirements that govern our right to reimbursement under U.S. federal government contracts.

In addition, the U.S. government adopts new laws, rules, and regulations from time to time that could have a material impact on our results of operations. Further, if the U.S. government were to initiate suspension or debarment proceedings against us or if we are indicted for or convicted of illegal activities relating to our U.S. government contracts following an audit, review, or investigation, we may lose our ability to be awarded contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts for a period of time which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We could also suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which would impair our ability to win awards of contracts in the future or receive renewals of existing contracts.

More generally, increases in scrutiny and investigations from government organizations, legislative bodies or agencies into business practices and major programs supported by contractors may lead to increased legal costs and may harm our reputation, profitability, growth prospects and impair our ability to recruit and retain employees.

Our business is subject to reviews, audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. federal government which, if resolved unfavorably, could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects.

U.S. federal government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency (“DCAA”), the Defense Contract Management Agency (“DCMA”) and others, routinely audit or review our performance on government contracts, indirect rates and pricing practices, as well as compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards. These agencies also review the adequacy of our compliance with government standards with respect to our business systems, including our accounting systems, earned value management systems, estimating systems, materials management and accounting systems, property management systems and purchasing systems.

Both contractors and the U.S. federal government agencies conducting these audits and reviews have come under increased scrutiny. As a result, the scope of these audits has increased, and they have become more rigorous, thereby increasing the likelihood of an audit or review resulting in an adverse outcome.

16

During the course of its audits, the DCAA has made unfavorable findings and recommendations with regard to the qualifications of certain of our employees and subcontractors for contract labor categories that were charged under contracts. In addition, the DCAA has concluded that certain costs that we had deemed to be allowable under the FAR cost principles were unallowable. We have vigorously disputed many of the DCAA’s findings over the years and have negotiated settlements with the DCAA in certain instances, while other disputes remain outstanding. We expect that the DCAA will continue to rigorously audit us and there will be disputed findings.

A finding of significant control deficiencies in our system audits or other reviews can result in decreased billing rates to our U.S. federal government customers until the control deficiencies are corrected and our corrections are accepted by the DCMA. Government audits and reviews may conclude that our practices are not consistent with applicable laws and regulations and result in adjustments to contract costs and mandatory customer refunds. Such adjustments can be applied retroactively, which could result in significant customer refunds. The receipt of adverse audit findings or the failure to obtain an “approved” determination of our various accounting and management internal control systems from the responsible U.S. federal government agency could significantly and adversely affect our business, including our ability to bid on new contracts and our competitive position in the bidding process. A determination of non-compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations and standards could also result in the U.S. federal government imposing penalties and sanctions against us, including the withholding of payments, suspension of payments and increased government scrutiny that could delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. federal government. Most of our subcontractors are subject to these same regulatory requirements. As a prime contractor, we may incur additional costs or our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts may be affected if a subcontractor does not comply with these regulations and its lack of compliance affects our performance under a prime contract.

Indirect cost audits by DCAA of our former parent company, CSC, have not been completed for fiscal 2004 and subsequent fiscal years. Accordingly, we have not been able to negotiate final indirect rates since that time. Although CSRA has recorded contract revenues subsequent to fiscal 2003 based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we do not know the outcome of any ongoing or future audits, negotiations and adjustments, if any. If such future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability would be adversely affected. In addition, the DCAA has not completed audits of SRA’s incurred cost submissions for fiscal 2009 and subsequent fiscal years. Accordingly, we have not been able to negotiate final indirect rates since that time. SRA has recorded financial results subsequent to fiscal 2008 based upon costs that SRA believes will be approved upon final audit or review. If incurred cost audits result in adverse findings that exceed SRA’s estimates, it would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Our state and local government contracts are also subject to audits and reviews by state and local government agencies including state comptrollers and inspector generals. Where federal funds are used by a state to fund all or part of a contract we perform, the state and CSRA may be subject to audit by a U.S. federal government agency or the Government Accountability Office. 

If our customers request out-of-scope work, we may not be able to collect our receivables, which would materially and adversely affect our profitability.

We may perform work for the U.S. federal government and state governments, with respect to which we must file requests for equitable adjustment or claims with the proper agency to seek recovery in whole or in part, for out-of-scope work directed or caused by the government customer in support of its critical missions. While we may resort to other methods to pursue our claims or collect our receivables, these methods are expensive and time consuming, and successful collection is not guaranteed. Failure to collect our receivables or prevail on our claims would have an adverse effect on our profitability.

17

Misconduct of employees, subcontractors, agents and business partners could cause us to lose existing contracts or customers, adversely affect our ability to win new contracts and customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation.

Misconduct may include fraud or other improper activities, such as falsifying time or other records and violations of laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws. Other examples could include the failure to comply with our Code of Business Conduct, policies and procedures or with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, rules regarding the use and safeguarding of classified or other protected information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health or safety matters, bribery of foreign government officials, international trade controls (particularly the International Traffic in Arms Regulations), lobbying or similar activities and any other applicable laws or regulations. Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory sanctions against us, loss of current and future contracts and serious harm to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all types of misconduct and, as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations or misconduct by any of our employees, subcontractors, agents or business partners could damage our reputation and subject us to fines and penalties, restitution or other damages, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts and suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business and our future results.

Internal system or service failures, including as a result of cyber or other security threats, could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services to our customers, which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

We create, deploy, and maintain IT and engineering systems, and provide services that are often critical to our customers’ missions, some of which involve sensitive information and may be conducted in war zones or other hazardous environments. As a result, we are subject to systems or service failures, not only resulting from our own failures or the failures of third-party service providers, natural disasters, power shortages, or terrorist attacks, but also from continuous exposure to cyber and other security threats, including computer malware and attacks by computer hackers or physical break-ins. There has been an increase in the frequency and sophistication of the cyber and security threats we face, with attacks ranging from those generally common to businesses to those that are more advanced and persistent, which may target us because we hold controlled unclassified, classified or other sensitive information. As a result, we face a heightened risk of a security breach or disruption with respect to sensitive information resulting from an attack by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists. We have been the target of these types of attacks in the past and future attacks are likely to occur. Threat incidents identified to date have not resulted in a material adverse effect on us or our business operations. Our security measures are designed to identify and protect against security breaches and cyber-attacks; however, if successful, these types of attacks on our network or other systems or service failures could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, due to, among other things, the loss of customer or proprietary data, interruptions or delays in our customers’ businesses and damage to our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our systems, communications or utilities could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, if our employees inadvertently do not adhere to appropriate information security protocols, our protocols are inadequate, or our employees intentionally avoid these protocols, our customers’ sensitive information may be released thereby causing significant negative impacts to our reputation and could expose us or our customers to liability.

To the extent that our systems, services or other applications have significant defects or errors, are successfully attacked by cyber and other security threats, suffer delivery delays, or otherwise fail to meet our customers’ security expectations, we may:

•lose revenue due to adverse customer reaction;

•be required to provide additional services or remediation to a customer at no charge;

18

•incur additional costs related to monitoring and increasing our security posture;

•lose revenue due to the deployment of internal staff for remediation efforts instead of performing billable work;

•receive negative publicity, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers;

•suffer claims by customers or affected third parties for substantial damages, particularly as a result of any successful network or systems breach and exfiltration of customer or third-party information; or

•lose our ability to perform and pursue classified work or experience a suspension of our export privileges.

In addition to any costs resulting from contract performance or required corrective action, these failures may generate increased costs or loss of revenue if our customers choose to postpone or cancel previously scheduled work or decide not to renew any of our existing contracts.

Certain of the costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Additionally, some cyber technologies and techniques that we utilize or develop may raise potential liabilities related to legal compliance, intellectual property and civil liberties, including privacy concerns, which may not be fully insured or indemnified. Further, our errors and omissions insurance coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims or the insurer may disclaim coverage as to some types of future claims. The successful assertion of any large claim against us could seriously harm our business. Even if not successful, these claims could result in significant legal and other costs, may be a distraction to our management and may harm our customer relationships. In certain new business areas, we may not be able to obtain sufficient insurance and may decide not to accept or solicit business in these areas.

As a contractor supporting national security customers, we are also subject to regulatory compliance requirements under the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement and other federal regulations requiring that our networks and IT systems comply with the security and privacy controls in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publication 800-171. Failure to comply with the security control requirements could also result in our ineligibility to bid for certain agency contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.

We are subject to risks associated with operating internationally.

Our foreign business operations, which we conduct in support of our U.S. federal government customers, are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including:

•Changes in or interpretations of laws or policies that may adversely affect the performance of our services;

•Political instability in foreign countries;

•Fluctuations in foreign currencies to the U.S. Dollar;

•Imposition of inconsistent or contradictory laws or regulations; 

•Reliance on the U.S. or other governments to authorize us to export products, technology and services; 

•Conducting business in places where laws, business practices, and customs are unfamiliar or unknown; and 

19

•Imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures.

In addition, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. If we were to fail to comply with the FCPA, other anti-corruption laws, applicable import-export control regulations, or other applicable rules and regulations, we could be subject to substantial civil and criminal penalties, including fines for our company and incarceration for responsible employees and managers, suspension or debarment, and the possible loss of export or import privileges which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

The U.S. federal government may adopt new contract rules and regulations or revise its procurement practices in a manner adverse to us at any time.

Our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies and recovery of costs, among other items. U.S. federal government agencies may face restrictions or pressure regarding the type and amount of services that they may obtain from private contractors. Legislation, regulations and initiatives dealing with procurement reform, mitigation of potential conflicts of interest, deterrence of fraud and environmental responsibility or sustainability, as well as any resulting shifts in the buying practices of U.S. federal government agencies, such as increased usage of fixed-price contracts, multiple award contracts and small business set-aside contracts, could have adverse effects on government contractors, including us. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or renew our existing contracts when those contracts are recompeted. Any new contracting requirements or procurement methods could be costly or administratively difficult for us to implement and could adversely affect our future revenues, profitability and prospects.

We may fail to obtain and maintain necessary security clearances which may adversely affect our ability to perform on certain contracts. 

Many U.S. government programs require contractor employees and facilities to have security clearances. Depending on the level of required clearance, security clearances can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain. If we or our employees are unable to obtain or retain necessary security clearances, we may not be able to win new business, and our existing clients could terminate their contracts with us or decide not to renew them. To the extent we are not able to obtain and maintain facility security clearances or engage employees with the required security clearances, we may not be able to bid on or win new contracts, or effectively rebid on expiring contracts, as well as lose existing contracts, which may adversely affect our operating results and inhibit the execution of our growth strategy. 

In addition, the competition for qualified personnel who possess security clearances is very strong in certain public sector markets. Accordingly, if we are unable to hire sufficient qualified and cleared personnel to meet contractual commitments, a contract could be terminated for non-performance. Under either circumstance, such termination, depending on the contract value, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated and combined financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

We have contracts with the U.S. federal government that are classified which may limit investor insight into portions of our business.

Over the last three fiscal years, an average of 13.8% of our revenues was derived from classified programs with the U.S. federal government that are subject to security restrictions that preclude the dissemination of information that is classified for national security purposes. Because we are limited in our ability to provide information about these classified programs, the various risks associated with these contracts or services or any disputes or claims relating to such programs or services you may not have important information concerning our business, which will limit your insight into a substantial portion of our business and therefore may be less able to fully evaluate the risks related to that portion of our business.

20

Our failure to attract and retain qualified employees, including our senior management team, could adversely affect our business.

We believe that the future success of our business and our ability to operate profitably depends on the continued contributions of the members of our senior management and the continued development of new members of senior management. We rely on our senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that many members of our senior management team have established and maintain with our clients are important to our business and our ability to identify new business opportunities. 

Our success also depends to a substantial degree on our ability to recruit and retain the technically-skilled personnel we need to serve our customers effectively. Our business involves the development of tailored solutions for our customers, a process that relies heavily upon the expertise and services of our employees. Accordingly, our employees are our most valuable resource. Competition for skilled personnel in the IT services industry is intense, and technology service companies often experience high attrition among their skilled employees. There is a shortage of people capable of filling these positions, particularly those with government security clearances, and they are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. Moreover, recruiting and training these personnel require substantial resources. Our failure to attract and retain technical personnel could increase our costs of performing our contractual obligations, reduce our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers’ needs, limit our ability to win new business and cause our actual results to differ materially and adversely from those anticipated.

Our markets are highly competitive, and many of the companies we compete against have substantially greater resources.

The markets in which we operate include a large number of participants and are highly competitive. Many of our competitors may compete more effectively than we can because they are larger, better financed and more well-known than we are. In order to stay competitive in our industry, we must also keep pace with changing technologies and customer preferences. If we are unable to differentiate our services from those of our competitors, our market share may decrease, thereby causing our revenues to decline. In addition, our competitors have established relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address customer needs. As a result, new competitors or strategic alliances among our competitors may emerge and compete more effectively than we can. We also believe that there is an industry trend toward consolidation, which may result in the emergence of companies that are better able to compete against us. If we lose business to our competitors or suffer employee departures, our revenue and our operating profits could decline. In addition, we may face competition from our subcontractors who, from time to time, seek to obtain prime contractor status on contracts for which they currently serve as a subcontractor to us. If one or more of our current subcontractors are awarded prime contractor status on such contracts in the future, it could divert sales from us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability.

In the course of providing services to customers, we may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of others and be exposed to claims for damages and equitable relief.

The solutions we provide to our customers may inadvertently infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties resulting in claims for damages and equitable relief against us or our customers. Customer agreements can require a solution provider to indemnify the customer for infringement. Under the FAR, the government can require a contractor to indemnify it for infringement. The expense and time of defending against these claims may have a material and adverse impact on our profitability. Additionally, the publicity we may receive as a result of infringing intellectual property rights may damage our reputation and adversely impact our ability to develop new business. We will not be entitled to indemnification from CSC in connection with most intellectual property we license from CSC if the use by us of that intellectual property infringes the rights of third parties, other than certain software and process improvements we license in connection with the annual maintenance fee we pay to CSC.

21

We have been, and may be in the future, subject to claims of intellectual property infringement, which could require us to change our business practices.

Successful claims that we infringe the intellectual property of others could require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question. This could require us to change our business practices and limit our ability to compete effectively. Even if we believe that claims of intellectual property infringement are without merit, defending against the claims can be time-consuming and costly and divert management’s attention and resources away from our business.

Our business may suffer if we cannot continue to enforce the intellectual property rights on which our business depends.

Our business carefully maintains a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names, copyrights and proprietary rights, as well as contractual arrangements, including licenses, to protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property rights are important to our continued success and our competitive position. See Part II—Item 8—Note 2—Related Party Transactions and Corporate Allocations. Under the Intellectual Property Matters Agreement we entered into with CSC, CSC is entitled to enforce certain intellectual property rights licensed to us. If CSC fails to enforce those rights or enforces them in a way that is not advantageous to us, the value to us of that intellectual property may be diminished. Any impairment of our intellectual property, including due to changes in U.S. and worldwide intellectual property laws or the absence of effective legal protections or enforcement measures, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may not realize as revenues the full amounts reflected in our backlog, which could adversely affect our expected future revenues and growth prospects.

As of April 1, 2016, the total backlog of CSRA was $15.1 billion, which included $2.9 billion in funded backlog. We historically have not realized all of the revenue included in our total backlog, and we may not realize all of the revenue included in our total backlog in the future. There is a somewhat higher degree of risk in this regard with respect to unfunded backlog and priced options. In addition, there can be no assurance that our backlog will result in actual revenue in any particular period. Reasons why backlog may not be realized as revenue may not become fully known. Customers may not fully or accurately describe reasons why backlog is not realized. This is because the actual receipt, timing, and amount of revenue under contracts included in backlog are subject to various contingencies, including congressional appropriations, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, delays in the completion of the U.S. government’s budgeting process and the use of continuing resolutions could adversely affect our ability to timely recognize revenue under our contracts included in backlog. Furthermore, the actual receipt of revenue from contracts included in backlog may never occur or may be delayed because: a program schedule could change or the program could be canceled; a contract’s funding or scope could be reduced, modified, delayed, or terminated early, including as a result of a lack of appropriated funds or as a result of cost cutting initiatives and other efforts to reduce U.S. government spending and/or the automatic federal defense spending cuts required by sequestration; in the case of funded backlog, the period of performance for the contract has expired; in the case of unfunded backlog, funding may not be available; or, in the case of priced options, our clients may not exercise their options. In addition, headcount growth is the primary means by which we are able to recognize revenue growth. Any inability to hire additional appropriately qualified personnel or failure to timely and effectively deploy such additional personnel against funded backlog could negatively affect our ability to grow our revenue. Furthermore, even if our backlog results in revenue, the contracts may not be profitable.

Our earnings and profitability may be adversely affected based on the mix of our contracts and by our failure to accurately accurately estimate or manage costs, time and resources for our contracts.

We generate revenues under various types of contracts, which include cost reimbursement, time-and-materials, fixed-price-level-of-effort and firm fixed-price contracts. Each of these types of contracts, to varying degrees, involves the risk that we could underestimate our cost of fulfilling the contract, which may reduce the profit we earn or lead to a financial loss on the contract and adversely affect our operating results. 

22

Under fixed-price contracts, we perform specific tasks for a pre-determined price. Compared to time-and-materials and cost-reimbursable contracts, fixed-price contracts generally offer higher margin opportunities because we receive the benefits of any cost savings, but involve greater financial risk because we bear the impact of any cost overruns. The U.S. government has generally indicated that it intends to increase its use of fixed price contract procurements. Because we assume the risk for cost overruns and contingent losses on fixed-price contracts, an increase in the percentage of fixed-price contracts in our contract mix would increase our risk of suffering losses.

Under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs up to a ceiling and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. If our actual costs exceed the contract ceiling or are not allowable under the terms of the contract or applicable regulations, we may not be able to recover those costs. In particular, there is increasing focus by the U.S. government on the extent to which government contractors, including us, are able to receive reimbursement for employee compensation, including recent rules under the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 that substantially decreased the level of allowable compensation cost for executive-level employees and further applied the newly reduced limitation to all employees. In addition, there is an increased risk of compensation being deemed unallowable or payments being withheld as a result of U.S. government audit, review or investigation.

Under time-and-materials contracts, we are reimbursed for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain allowable expenses. We assume financial risk on time-and-materials contracts because our costs of performance may exceed these negotiated hourly rates.

Additionally, our profits could be adversely affected if our cost estimates on ongoing contracts are not accurate or managed properly and costs under any future contracts exceed the assumptions we used in bidding for the contract. We may underestimate the costs and resources necessary to fulfill the contract, including any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of our contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, could make our contracts less profitable than expected or unprofitable and have an adverse effect on our financial results.

Adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes could result in materially adverse monetary damages or injunctive relief and damage our reputation. 

As noted in Part I—Item 3—Legal Proceedings and Note 22—Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements of CSRA, we are currently party to a number of disputes which are currently being litigated or may be litigated in the future. The results of litigation and other legal proceedings are inherently uncertain and adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in materially adverse monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation, even if fully indemnified or insured, could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future. The litigation and other claims described under the “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” are subject to future developments and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. 

As part of our overall strategy, we may make acquisitions or divestitures, which involve inherent risks and uncertainties.

As part of our overall strategy, we may make acquisitions, which involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including:

•difficulty in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations in an efficient and effective manner, including the integration of new employees;

•creation of OCIs that limit our ability to compete for or perform under certain contracts;

•the challenge in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other anticipated benefits;

•the potential loss of key employees of our or the acquired businesses;

23

•the potential diversion of senior management’s attention from our operations;

•integrating financial reporting and internal control systems;

•the difficulty in expanding IT systems and other business processes to incorporate the acquired businesses;

•potential future impairments of goodwill associated with the acquired businesses; and

•in some cases, the potential for increased regulation.

To the extent that an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated, cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, or one or more of the other risks and uncertainties identified occur in connection with our acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Similarly, we could make divestitures which could involve inherent risks or uncertainties, including loss of past performance qualifications for future bid opportunities. 

Our ability to pursue strategic acquisitions and partnerships may impact our ability to compete in the markets we serve.

Besides pursuing organic growth, we intend to explore potential strategic acquisitions that could allow us to expand our operations. However, we may be unable to identify attractive candidates or complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us. In addition, our ability to successfully integrate the operations we acquire and leverage these operations to generate revenue and earnings growth may significantly impact future revenue and earnings as well as investor returns. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage such integrations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure, thereby reducing our margins and return on investment.

We have also entered into, and expect to seek to enter into additional strategic partnerships with other industry participants as part of an effort to expand our business. However, we may be unable to identify attractive strategic partnership candidates or complete such partnerships on terms favorable to us. In addition, if we are unable to successfully implement our partnership strategies or our strategic partners do not fulfill their obligations or otherwise do not prove advantageous to our business, our investments in such partnerships and our anticipated business expansion could be adversely affected.

Achieving our growth objectives may prove unsuccessful. We may be unable to identify future attractive acquisitions and strategic partnerships, which may adversely affect our growth. In addition, our ability to consummate or integrate acquisitions or to consummate or implement our strategic partnerships may be materially and adversely affected.

A material change to our capital structure or a downgrade of our credit ratings may affect our borrowing costs, our ability to raise additional capital for future needs, and our competitiveness.

We believe that we currently maintain a strong capital structure. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to maintain a healthy capital structure. Even if we were able to utilize our current structure, there is no assurance that our credit ratings would reflect that structure given that our credit ratings are determined by credit rating agencies from their own independent review, assessment and information sources. Moreover, credit ratings are subject to revision, suspension or withdrawal by one or more rating agencies at any time and rating agencies may review and revise our credit ratings due to developments that are beyond our control.

24

Any adverse change in our capital structure or a downgrade of any our credit ratings would result in higher borrowing costs, limited access to capital markets and would likely result in a decline in the market price for our common stock. Since lenders and our customers use credit ratings to assess our financial viability, any ratings downgrade would also adversely effect how we are perceived among lenders and our customers, which may result in increased costs associated with procuring surety bonds in connection with certain of our contracts. Any of these events would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

We could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges.

We test our goodwill for impairment during the second quarter of every year and on an interim date should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. If the fair value of a reporting unit is revised downward due to declines in business performance or other factors, an impairment could result and we may be required to record a non-cash charge on our income statement.

We have acquired software and other long-lived intangible assets that are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset, or group of assets, may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount is not recoverable and it exceeds its fair value, a non-cash impairment charge would be recognized.

We also test certain equipment and deferred cost balances associated with contracts when the contract is materially underperforming or is expected to materially underperform in the future, as compared to the original bid model or budget. If the projected cash flows of a particular contract are not adequate to recover the unamortized cost balance of the asset group, the balance is adjusted in the tested period based on the contract’s fair value. Either of these impairments could materially affect our reported net earnings.

We rely on CSC and other third parties for information that we use for our external financial reporting. 

Following the Spin-Off, we continue to rely on information we receive from CSC to make certain calculations that are important to our external financial reporting. For instance, we rely on CSC to supply us with the number of CSRA options held by CSC employees who had options to purchase both CSC shares and CSRA shares, which we use, among other things, in calculating our diluted earnings per share. We also rely on CSC for other information, including certain historical tax assets and liabilities and cash balances for pass-through payments made by certain customers and third parties to CSC accounts. We have limited control over the quality, accuracy and timeliness of the information we receive from CSC. The failure by CSC to provide us with completely accurate information or to provide such information on an timely basis could have an adverse effect on our financial information. 

We also rely on the information received from unrelated third party service organizations who make certain calculations that are important to our external financial reporting. For example, we rely on unrelated third party service organizations to supply us with calculations and reports that support our accounting and reporting of share based payment plans, as well as our pension and other postretirement plans. We obtain various reports from these organizations that communicate information on their controls and systems that are used to generate this information. Those reports also include an opinion from a service auditor opining on the fairness of the service organization’s depiction of its control system at specified date, as well as the efficacy of the service organization’s controls and objectives throughout a specified period. While reliance on these reports are an important part of management’s internal control over financial reporting, we may not always have adequate, accurate, or timely information related to internal control failures occurring at these organizations, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations as a publicly traded company. 

25

We may be exposed to negative publicity and other potential risks if we are unable to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting.

 The rules of the SEC provide for a transition period before newly public companies are required to provide a report of management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or an attestation report of the company’s registered public accounting firm. Nevertheless, our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Because of inherent limitations, our management does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting we may be exposed to negative publicity. The resulting negative publicity may materially and adversely affect our business and stock price. Also, once we are required under SEC rules to provide management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness in such assessment to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may be inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

 Upon the expiry of the SEC permitted transition period for a newly public company to be in full compliance with Section 404, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to furnish an annual attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting and, to the extent it is unable to report that we have maintained, in all material respects, effective control over financial reporting as of the last day of the fiscal year end, that may also expose us to negative publicity affecting our business and stock price. 

Pension costs are dependent on several economic assumptions which if changed may cause our future earnings and cash flow to fluctuate significantly as well as affect the affordability of our products and services.

Our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded based on U.S. GAAP accounting methodologies and our pension funding requirements could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, changes in laws or regulations, changes in assumptions or investments that do not achieve adequate returns.

Our future funding requirements for our U.S. defined benefit pension plans depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. Future funding requirements generally increase if the discount rate decreases or if actual asset returns are lower than expected, assuming other factors are held constant. 

In connection with the Spin-Off, we assumed most obligations under substantially all of CSC’s material U.S. domestic defined benefit pension plans, including various supplemental executive retirement plans and substantial assets and liabilities in respect of pension obligations to current and former CSC employees who are not our current or former employees. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) is a federal agency created by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”), to protect pension benefits in private-sector defined benefit plans. The PBGC is funded by insurance premiums paid by companies that sponsor defined benefit pension plans. If a defined benefit plan is terminated without sufficient funding to pay all the promised benefits, the PBGC's insurance program pays the promised benefits for the covered plan, up to limits set by law. As part of its risk monitoring practices, the PBGC analyzes long-run loss scenarios associated with corporate spin-offs and other transactions to ensure that covered plans do not incur unreasonable additional risk from such corporate transactions. The PBGC conducted an analysis of our defined benefit pension plans in relation to the Spin-Off. 

In connection with the Spin-Off, CSRA became the contributing sponsor and administrator of the Computer Sciences Corporation Employee Pension Plan, which was renamed the CSRA Inc. Employee Pension Plan (the “Plan”). On November 25, 2015, CSC and CSRA entered into an agreement with the PBGC (the “PBGC Agreement”). Under the PBGC Agreement, the PBGC has agreed to close its investigation and CSRA has agreed to contribute to the Plan: (1) $50 million on or before August 31, 2018 (the “First Additional Contingent Payment”) and (2) $50 million on or before the last day of CSRA’s fiscal year 2019 (the “Second Additional Contingent Payment” and collectively with the First Additional Contingent Payment, the “Contingent Payments”), in addition to any other contributions required by law, unless certain conditions are met as described below. 

26

CSRA will not be required to contribute the First Additional Contingent Payment if:

(1)prior to or as of the last day of CSRA’s 2018 fiscal year, CSRA’s consolidated total net leverage ratio as defined in the PBGC Agreement is 2.75 to 1 or lower; or

(2)at any time prior to August 31, 2018, CSRA has met any two of the following three requirements:

▪a corporate credit rating higher than BB+ from Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services, Inc.;

▪a corporate family rating higher than Ba1 from Moody’s Investor Services, Inc.; or 

▪a corporate credit rating higher than BB+ from Fitch Ratings, Inc.

 CSRA will not be required to contribute the Second Additional Contingent Payment if prior to the last day of CSRA’s 2019 fiscal year, CSRA has permanently repaid certain amounts of its indebtedness on the terms set out in the PBGC Agreement.

In the event of certain defaults as set forth in the PBGC Agreement, CSRA’s obligation to make the Contingent Payments becomes fixed and the exceptions described above will no longer apply. CSRA will not be required to contribute any remaining unpaid Contingent Payment if on the last day of calendar years 2017 or 2018, or the last day of CSRA’s 2017, 2018 or 2019 fiscal years, the Plan’s funded status as defined in the PBGC Agreement is equal to or is greater than 80% as calculated by the Plan’s actuary. 

We also have obligations to provide certain healthcare and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees. The impact of these plans on our GAAP earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive to changes in several key economic assumptions that will impact our annual remeasurement “mark-to-market,” or under immediate recognition, accounting results, including interest rates, realized investment returns, and other actuarial assumptions including participant longevity (also known as mortality) estimates. Changes in these factors may also affect our required plan funding, cash flow and stockholders’ equity. In addition, the funding of our plans and recovery of costs on our contracts may be subject to changes caused by legislative or regulatory actions. Prior to the Spin-off and Merger transactions, CSC took actions over the last few years to mitigate the volatility the defined benefit pension plans may have on our earnings and cash flows, including amendments made in 2009 to certain of our defined benefit pension plans to freeze pension accrual benefits, making discretionary contributions from proceeds from the sale of businesses, diversifying our investment asset allocation strategies, and liquidating liabilities via lump sum settlements. In addition, CSC implemented heath care insurance exchanges during fiscal 2015 to improve local medical care and to reduce our costs in providing retiree medical benefits and other post-employment benefits and, where possible, eliminated future financial impact on us from inflation in retiree medical care costs. However, the impact of these actions may be less than anticipated or may be offset by other pension and other postretirement benefits cost increases due to factors such as changes in actuarial assumptions, reduced investment returns, or changes in discount rates.

Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results.

Our future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. We are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.

27

We may be adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets, including disruptions that reduce our suppliers’ access to credit.

The credit markets have historically been volatile and therefore it is not possible for us to predict the ability of our suppliers or partners to access short-term financing and other forms of capital. If a disruption in the credit markets were to occur, it could also pose a risk to our business if certain government suppliers are unable to obtain financing to meet payment or delivery obligations to us.

We have substantial indebtedness, and we have the ability to incur significant additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

We have substantial indebtedness and we may increase our indebtedness in the future. As of April 1, 2016, our term loan and revolving line of credit debt was approximately $2.8 billion and a net pension liability of approximately $0.6 billion.

Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could:

•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;

•limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements or to carry out other aspects of our business;

•increase our cost of borrowing;

•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements or to carry out other aspects of our business;

•limit our ability to make material acquisitions or take advantage of business opportunities that may arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock;

•expose us to fluctuations in interest rates, to the extent our borrowings bear variable rates of interest and the risk is not hedged through one or more swap transactions;

•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and

•place us at a potential disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt.

Our ability to make scheduled payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on and be subject to our future financial and operating performance, which in turn is affected by general economic, financial, competitive, business and other factors beyond our control, including the availability of financing in the banking and capital markets. Our business may fail to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow funds in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments on our debt, to refinance our debt or to fund our other needs. If we were unable to make payments on or refinance our debt or obtain new financing, under these circumstances we would have to consider other options, such as asset sales, equity issuances or negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. The terms of debt agreements that we entered into in connection with the Spin-Off and Mergers and market or business conditions may limit our ability to take some or all of these actions. In addition, if we incur additional debt, the related risks described above could be exacerbated.

28

The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictive covenants, which restrict our operational flexibility. 

The agreements governing our indebtedness contain restrictions and limitations on: our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests, including covenants that place limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; the creation of liens; the payment of dividends; sales of assets; fundamental changes, including mergers and acquisitions; loans and investments; negative pledges; transactions with affiliates; restrictions affecting subsidiaries; modification to charter documents in a manner materially adverse to the lenders; changes in our fiscal year and limitations on conduct of business.

Events beyond our control could affect our ability to meet these covenants. Our failure to comply with obligations under the agreements governing our indebtedness may result in an event of default under those agreements. A default, if not cured or waived, may permit acceleration of our indebtedness. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to pay the accelerated indebtedness or that we will have the ability to refinance the accelerated indebtedness on terms favorable to us or at all. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition, operating results and business and could cause us to become insolvent or enter bankruptcy proceedings. 

CSRA was in compliance with all financial covenants associated with its borrowings as of April 1, 2016. 

We may need to raise additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available.

We fund our ongoing working capital, capital expenditure and financing requirements through cash flows from operations and new sources of capital, including additional financing. Our ability to obtain future financing will depend, among other things, on our financial condition and results of operations as well as on the condition of the capital markets or other credit markets at the time we seek financing. Increased volatility and disruptions in the financial markets could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain financing. In addition, the adoption of new statutes and regulations, the implementation of recently enacted laws or new interpretations or the enforcement of older laws and regulations applicable to the financial markets or the financial services industry could result in a reduction in the amount of available credit or an increase in the cost of credit. There can be no assurance that, as a new independent public company, we will have sufficient access to the capital markets on terms that we will we find acceptable.

SRA’s income tax returns are subject to audit in various jurisdictions and its fiscal year 2011 U.S. federal income tax returns are currently under audit. 

SRA’s income tax returns are subject to review and audit in the United States and other jurisdictions with varying statutes of limitations. SRA has not recognized the benefit of income tax positions that we believe would be more-likely-than-not disallowed upon challenge by a tax authority. If any tax authority successfully challenges SRA’s tax positions, our effective tax rate on our earnings could increase substantially, and our earnings and cash flows from operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Periods for SRA’s fiscal years ended after July 1, 2010 generally remain subject to examination by federal and state tax authorities. In foreign jurisdictions, tax years after 2010 may remain subject to examination by tax authorities. SRA’s consolidated U.S. federal income tax return for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 is currently under audit by the IRS. SRA has been notified that the IRS contests a significant deduction taken during that period, which SRA plans to defend vigorously. Nonetheless, if the IRS were to challenge SRA’s prior tax positions and SRA is unsuccessful in defending them, we may be required to pay taxes for prior periods, interest, fines or penalties, or be obligated to pay increased taxes in the future, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 

SRA has obtained insurance for certain taxes, interest, penalties and defense costs attributable to certain deductions taken by SRA that are contested by the IRS.

29

Risks Relating to Recent Transactions

The recent Spin-Off could result in a significant tax liability to CSC and its stockholders.

Among other requirements, completion of the Spin-Off was conditioned on CSC’s receipt of a written opinion from its outside tax advisor regarding the qualification of the distribution of the shares of CSRA common stock to CSC’s stockholders (the “Distribution”) as tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).

The opinion of counsel does not address any U.S. state, local or foreign tax consequences of the Spin-Off. The opinion assumed that the Spin-Off was completed according to the terms of the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement and relied on facts as stated in the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the other ancillary agreements, and a number of other documents. In addition, the opinion was based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, CSC and us. The opinion cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants are incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or are violated in any material respect.

The opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. CSC has not requested, and does not intend to request, a ruling from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the Spin-Off.

If the Distribution were determined not to qualify for tax-free treatment, U.S. Holders could be subject to tax. In this case, each U.S. Holder who received our common stock in the Distribution would generally be treated as receiving a distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received, which would generally result in (1) a taxable dividend to the U.S. Holder to the extent of that U.S. Holder’s pro rata share of CSC’s current and accumulated earnings and profits; (2) a reduction in the U.S. Holder’s basis (but not below zero) in CSC common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the stockholder’s share of CSC’s earnings and profits; and (3) a taxable gain from the exchange of CSC common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the sum of the U.S. Holder’s share of CSC’s earnings and profits and the U.S. Holder’s basis in its CSC common stock.

If the Distribution were determined not to qualify for tax-free treatment, then CSC would recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of our common stock held by it immediately before the Distribution. Under certain circumstances, we could have an indemnification obligation to CSC with respect to tax on any such gain. 

We could have an indemnification obligation to CSC if the Distribution were determined not to qualify for tax-free treatment, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition.

If, due to any of the representations being untrue or covenants being breached, it were determined that the Distribution did not qualify for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Code, we could be required to indemnify CSC for the resulting taxes and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our financial condition.

In addition, Section 355(e) of the Code generally creates a presumption that the Distribution would be taxable to CSC, but not to stockholders, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, if we or our stockholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change by vote or value in the ownership of our stock during the period beginning two years before the date of the Distribution through two years after the date of the Distribution, unless it were established that such transactions and the Distribution were not part of a plan or series of related transactions giving effect to such a change in ownership. If the Distribution were taxable to CSC due to such a 50% or greater change in ownership of our stock, CSC would recognize gain in an amount up to the fair market value of our common stock held by it immediately before the Distribution, and we generally would be required to indemnify CSC for the tax on such gain and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our financial condition. See Part II—Item 8 and Note 2—Related Party Transactions and Corporate Allocations—Transition Agreements and Exhibit 10.1 to this annual report on Form 10-K.

30

We agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the Distribution, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility.

We agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to covenants and indemnification obligations that address compliance with Section 355(e) of the Code. These covenants and indemnification obligations may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new businesses, equity issuances or repurchases or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that our stockholders may consider favorable. See Part II—Item 8 and Note 2—Related Party Transactions and Corporate Allocations—Transition Agreements and Exhibit 10.1 to this annual report on Form 10-K.

Our ability to expand our business beyond U.S. federal and certain state and local government customers may be constrained.

Our Intellectual Property Matters Agreement with CSC restricts our ability to use certain intellectual property to sell our services to customers other than our existing customer base (i.e., U.S. federal and certain state and local government customers) for a period after the Distribution. In addition, under our Non-U.S. Agency Agreement, we have appointed CSC as our exclusive agent outside the United States with regard to certain non-U.S. customers, subject to some exceptions, for a period after the Distribution, and we have agreed not to solicit certain state and local government customers for a period after the Distribution. While we have no current plans to expand our existing business in ways that would require us to engage in business beyond the scope of the rights to intellectual property we currently have, we are unable to engage in business activities outside the scope of that license until the expiration of those restrictions unless we develop or acquire new intellectual property. See Part II—Item 8 and Note 2—Related Party Transactions and Corporate Allocations—Transition Agreements—Tax Matters Agreement and Exhibit 10.1 to this annual report on Form 10-K.

We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from the recent Spin-Off.

We believe that, as an independent publicly-traded company, we will be able to, among other things, better focus our financial and operational resources on our specific business, implement and maintain a capital structure designed to meet our specific needs, design and implement corporate strategies and policies that are targeted to our business, more effectively respond to industry dynamics and create effective incentives for our management and employees that are more closely tied to our business performance. However, having recently separated from CSC, we may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other adverse events. In addition, we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company in the time we expect, if at all. The completion of the recent Spin-Off has required and is expected to continue to require significant amounts of our management’s time and effort, which may divert management’s attention from operating and growing our business. If we fail to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve as an independent company, or do not achieve them in the time we expect, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.

We have limited recent operating history as an independent publicly-traded company, and our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as an independent publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results.

We derived the Computer Sciences GS historical financial information included in this annual report on Form 10-K from CSC’s consolidated financial statements, and this information does not necessarily reflect the results of operations and financial position we would have achieved as an independent publicly-traded company during the periods presented, or those that we will achieve in the future. This is primarily because of the following factors:

31

•Prior to the Spin-Off, we operated as part of CSC’s broader corporate organization and CSC performed various corporate functions for us, including IT, tax administration, treasury activities, technical accounting, benefits administration, procurement, legal and ethics and compliance program administration. Our historical financial information reflects allocations of corporate expenses from CSC for these and similar functions. These allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as an independent publicly-traded company.

•As part of the Spin-Off, we recently entered into agreements with CSC that did not exist prior to the Spin-Off, which will cause us to incur new costs. See Part II—Item 8 and Note 2—Related Party Transactions and Corporate Allocations—Transition Agreements.

•Our historical financial information does not reflect changes that we expect to experience in the future as a result of our separation from CSC, including changes in our cost structure, personnel needs, tax profile, financing and business operations. As part of CSC, we enjoyed certain benefits from CSC’s operating diversity, size, purchasing power, borrowing leverage and available capital for investments. We may be unable to purchase goods, services and technologies, such as insurance and healthcare benefits and computer software licenses, or access capital markets on terms as favorable to us as those we obtained as part of CSC prior to the Spin-Off.

Following the recent Spin-Off, we are also responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent publicly-traded company, including costs related to corporate governance, investor and public relations and public reporting. Therefore, our financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent publicly-traded company. While we were profitable as part of CSC, we cannot assure you that our profits will continue at a similar level as an independent publicly-traded company. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, see Part II—Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of CSRA and Part II—Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and our historical financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 10-K.

Our and SRA’s historical and pro forma financial data are not necessarily representative of the results the combined company would have achieved and may not be a reliable indicator of the combined company’s future results.

Our and SRA’s historical and pro forma financial data included in this annual report on Form 10-K may not reflect what our and SRA’s results of operations and financial position would have been had we been a combined company, and publicly traded, during the periods presented, or what the combined company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be in the future. In addition, the pro forma financial data we have included in this annual report on Form 10-K are based in part upon a number of estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions may prove not to be accurate, and accordingly, our pro forma financial data should not be assumed to be indicative of what our financial condition or results of operations actually would have been as a combined company and may not be a reliable indicator of what our financial condition or results of operations actually may be in the future.

We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we received in our agreements with CSC that are based on the costs historically allocated to us by CSC.

We entered into agreements with CSC related to our separation from CSC, including the Master Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement, Intellectual Property Matters Agreement, Real Estate Matters Agreement and Non-U.S. Agency Agreement and any other agreements, while we were still part of CSC that are based on the costs historically allocated to us by CSC. Accordingly, these agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arms-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. Among other things, pursuant to the Intellectual Property Matters Agreement, CSC retained ownership of all proprietary intellectual property (other than certain restricted intellectual property developed by us, which CSC assigned to us) and licensed certain rights we require for use solely in connection with U.S. federal and certain U.S. 

32

state and local government customers, on a perpetual, royalty-free, non-assignable basis. In addition, an annual net maintenance fee is due to CSC of $30 million for each of the five years following the Distribution plus certain additional maintenance fees if we exceed certain revenue thresholds in order to receive certain maintenance services including the right to updates, patches and new versions that are made generally available to CSC customers during that period that relate to the software products and workflow and design methodologies that are covered by the license. Under U.S. federal government cost accounting rules, it is possible that a portion of the annual maintenance fee we will pay to CSC may not be an allowable or allocable cost. The terms of these agreements relate to, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between CSC and us. We may have received better terms from third parties because third parties may have competed with each other to win our business. 

Certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous or continuing positions at CSC.

Because of their current or former positions with CSC, certain of our directors and officers own CSC common stock and equity awards. Even though our Board of Directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, some of our directors continue to have a financial interest in CSC common stock and equity awards. In addition, Mr. Lawrie, who is Chairman of our Board, is the Chairman of the board of directors of CSC and is its Chief Executive Officer. Continuing ownership of CSC common stock and equity awards, or service as a director at both companies could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if we have disagreements with CSC about the contracts between us that continue or face decisions that could have different implications for us and CSC.

The integration of the Computer Sciences GS Business with the SRA business following the recent Spin-Off and the Mergers may present significant challenges. 

Following the Mergers, we have significantly more sales, assets and employees than the Computer Sciences GS Business had prior to the consummation of the Mergers. Our management is required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of Computer Sciences GS and SRA. 

A significant degree of difficulty and management involvement is inherent in that process. These difficulties include, but are not limited to:

•the challenge of integrating the Computer Sciences GS and SRA businesses and carrying on the ongoing operations of each business;

•the challenge of integrating the business cultures of each company;

•the challenge of creating uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies and controlling the costs associated with these matters;

•the challenge and costs of integrating the IT, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems and processes of each company; and

•the potential difficulty in retaining key employees and sales personnel of Computer Sciences GS and SRA.

The difficulty and management involvement, including the factors described above, may be more challenging because they come as CSRA is operating as an independent company for the first time. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the businesses of CSRA, including SRA, and may require us to incur substantial out-of-pocket costs. Members of our senior management are required to devote considerable amounts of time and attention to this integration process, which decreases the time they have to manage our businesses, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new services or strategies. If senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities, including activities associated with the establishment of CSRA as an independent company, are interrupted as a result of the integration process, the businesses of CSRA, including SRA, 

33

could suffer. We cannot assure you that CSRA will successfully or cost-effectively integrate the Computer Sciences GS Business and SRA business. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of CSRA.

Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and the Securities Market

 Our stock has had relatively limited trading history, and our stock price may fluctuate significantly.

There was no public market for our common stock prior to the Spin-Off. CSRA and SRA stockholders who received shares of our common stock may sell those shares in the public market, given a different business profile and market capitalization as an independent company. These shares are also eligible for resale in the public market without registration subject to volume, manner of sale and holding period limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The sales of significant amounts of our common stock or the perception in the market that this will occur may decrease the market price of our common stock. In addition, some potential investors may await a more established pattern of financial performance as a public company before investing in the company.

We cannot predict the prices at which our common stock may trade. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including:

•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business;

•success or failure of our business strategies;

•our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry;

•our ability to obtain financing as needed;

•announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions;

•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles;

•the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock after the Spin-Off;

•changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;

•the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies;

•investor perception of our company and the IT services industry;

•overall market fluctuations;

•results from any material litigation or government investigation;

•changes in laws and regulations (including tax laws and regulations) affecting our business;

•changes in capital gains taxes and taxes on dividends affecting stockholders; and

•general economic conditions and other external factors.

Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.

34

We cannot assure investors that we will pay dividends on our common stock, and our indebtedness may limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.

On November 30, 2015, CSRA announced that its Board had declared a first quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per share. This dividend was paid on January 26, 2016 to CSRA stockholders of record at the close of business on January 5, 2016. On March 15, 2016, CSRA announced that its Board had declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share. The dividend was paid on April 29, 2016 to CSRA stockholders of record at the close of business on April 5, 2016. We currently anticipate continuing to pay quarterly cash dividends on our common stock. Notwithstanding the current expectations for CSRA’s dividend policy, the timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to stockholders will fall within the discretion of our Board. Our Board’s decisions regarding the payment of future dividends will depend on many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements of our business and covenants associated with debt obligations, as well as legal requirements, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other factors that our Board deems relevant. There can be no assurance that we will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend, and there can be no assurance that, in the future, the combined annual dividends paid on CSC common stock, if any, and our common stock, if any, after the Spin-Off will equal the annual dividends on CSC common stock prior to the Spin-Off.

Investor ownership as a percentage in CSRA may be diluted in the future.

Investor ownership as a percentage in CSRA may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that we expect to grant to our directors, officers and other employees. Prior to completion of the Spin-Off, CSC’s Board of Directors approved an incentive plan that provides for the grant of common stock-based equity awards to our directors, officers and other employees. In addition, we may issue equity as all or part of the consideration paid for acquisitions and strategic investments that we may make in the future or as necessary to finance our ongoing operations.

Provisions in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and of Nevada law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock.

Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Nevada law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. These include provisions that:

•permit us to issue blank check preferred stock with voting, conversion and exchange rights that could negatively affect the voting power or other rights of our common stockholders, and the Board could take that action without stockholder approval. The issuance of our preferred stock could delay or prevent a change of control of CSRA;

•preclude stockholders from calling special meetings except where such special meetings are requested by stockholders representing 75% of the capital stock entitled to vote. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws prevent stockholder action by written consent for the election of directors and require the written consent of 90% of the capital stock entitled to vote for any other stockholder actions by written consent; and

•limit our ability to enter into business combination transactions with certain stockholders.

These and other provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Amended and Restated Bylaws and Nevada law may discourage, delay or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or a threatened acquisition or change in control of CSRA, including unsolicited takeover attempts, even though the transaction may offer our stockholders the opportunity to sell their shares of our common stock at a price above the prevailing market price. See Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 to this annual report on Form 10-K for more information.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

35

None.

Item 2. Properties