Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of CSRA

Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of CSRA (“MD&A”) should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, as well as the discussion in Part I, Item 1. Business. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements are not historical facts, but rather are based on our current expectations, estimates, assumptions, and projections about our industry, business and future financial results. These statements should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of our financial performance reported in accordance with GAAP. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those we discuss in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Our audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements discussed below reflect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The financial information discussed below, however, may not necessarily reflect what our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows would have been had we operated as a separate, independent entity during the periods presented prior to the Spin-Off, or what our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows may be in the future. 

The following MD&A of CSRA covers certain periods prior to the Spin-Off and Mergers. For accounting and financial reporting purposes, Computer Sciences GS is considered to be the predecessor to CSRA and as a result, its historical financial statements now constitute the historical financial statements of CSRA. Accordingly, results 

42

reported through November 27, 2015 include only the operations of Computer Sciences GS on a carve-out basis. The results reported after November 27, 2015 include the operations of CSRA, including the SRA Merger. These historical financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance. 

This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of CSRA is organized as follows:

•Overview: A discussion of our business and overall analysis of financial and other highlights affecting CSRA to provide context for the remainder of MD&A. The overview analysis compares fiscal 2016 to fiscal 2015.

•Results of Operations: An analysis of our financial results comparing fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015 to the prior years, respectively. A discussion of the results of operations at the combined level is followed by a more detailed discussion of the results of operations by segment.

•Liquidity and Capital Resources: An analysis of changes in our cash flows and a discussion of our financial condition and liquidity. 

•Contractual Obligations: An overview of contractual obligations, retirement benefit plan funding and off balance sheet arrangements.

•Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates: A discussion of accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results.

Business Overview

Every day CSRA makes a difference in how the government serves our country and our citizens. We deliver a broad range of innovative, next-generation IT solutions and professional services to help our customers modernize their legacy systems, protect their networks and assets, and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of mission-critical functions for our war fighters and our citizens. Our over 18,000 employees understand that success is a matter of perseverance, courage, adaptability and experience. 

Headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, we deliver comprehensive offerings from concept through sustainment. We deliver IT, mission- and operations-related services across the U.S. federal government to the DoD, intelligence community and homeland security, civil and healthcare agencies, as well as certain state and local government agencies. We leverage deep domain-based customer intimacy and decades of experience in helping customers execute their mission with a fundamental understanding of their IT environment that has earned us the ability to introduce next-generation technologies. We bring scalable and more cost-effective IT solutions to government agencies that are seeking to improve mission-critical effectiveness and efficiency through innovation.

This approach is designed to yield lower implementation and operational costs as well as a higher standard of delivery. Demand for our U.S. public sector offerings is driven by evolving government priorities such as: (1) the critical mission priorities of government agencies, (2) the government-wide mandate to improve efficiency and reduce cost and (3) the government’s long-term shift to next generation technologies. 

CSRA’s reportable segments are as follows:

•Defense and Intelligence Segment—The Defense and Intelligence segment provides services to the DoD, National Security Agency, branches of the Armed Forces and other DoD and Intelligence agencies.

•Civil Segment—The Civil segment provides services to various federal agencies within the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Health and Human Services and other federal civil agencies, as well as various state and local government agencies.

43

Overview

The key operating results for fiscal 2016 include:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We completed the following transactions during fiscal 2016:

•Completed the divestiture of Welkin Associates Limited (“Welkin”), our U.S.-based provider of systems engineering and technical assistance services to the Intelligence Community and other DoD clients. Total consideration received was $34 million and the after-tax gain on sale was approximately $18.5 million.

•CSRA has sold eligible receivables, including both receivables that have already been billed under an invoice and also certain unbilled receivables arising from contracts where CSRA has performed work under a cost-plus-fixed-fee or time-and-materials contract and other required conditions. See Note 6— Receivables in the audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements.

•Completed the previously announced Mergers which resulted in SRA Parent merging with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of CSRA. As a result, SRA became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of CSRA. The Mergers are expected to provide clients, investors and employees of both companies with significant benefits which include a vastly expanded portfolio of expertise, cost competitiveness and increased financial strength which will position the merged company well for future growth opportunities and the ability to further attract industry-leading talent.

(1)Operating income is a non-GAAP measure that provides useful information to our management for assessment of our performance and results of operations and is one of the financial measures utilized to determine executive compensation. Our definition of such measure may differ from other companies. We define operating income as revenue less cost of services (“COS”), segment general and administrative (“G&A”) expense and depreciation and amortization expense. Operating income excludes actuarial and settlement charges related to pension and other post-employment benefit plans, corporate G&A, separation and merger costs and SRA integration costs. Management compensates for the limitations of this non-GAAP measure by also reviewing income from continuing operations before taxes, which includes costs excluded from the operating income definition such as corporate G&A, interest and other income (expense). Management believes that presenting non-GAAP operating income is useful to investors because it (i) provides investors with meaningful supplemental information regarding financial performance by excluding certain items, (ii) permits investors to view performance using the same tools that management uses to budget, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate historical performance, and (iii) 

44

otherwise provides supplemental information that may be useful to investors in evaluating our results. A reconciliation of operating income to income from continuing operations before taxes is as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Non-GAAP Operating income as presented does not include the contribution from net periodic pension income related to CSC’s U.S. defined benefit pension plans that we assumed at Spin-Off; net periodic pension income relating to these plans has not been included in CSRA’s historical non-GAAP operating income nor in the historical audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements, but is included in our results of operations beginning in the period after the date of Distribution. The contribution to non-GAAP operating income from net periodic pension income from CSC’s U.S. defined benefit pension plans amounted to approximately $87.7 million, $82.4 million, and $60.3 million for fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively.

(b) Includes mark-to-market gains (losses) to pension and OPEB expense of $194.7 million and $8.1 million, respectively, for fiscal 2016, $10.2 million and $(2.2) million, respectively, for fiscal 2015, and $(2.4) million and $(0.5) million, respectively, for fiscal 2014. 

(c) Includes costs related to the Spin-Off and Mergers.

(d) The net periodic pension cost within income from continuing operations includes $(9.6) million, $3.4 million, and $9.8 million of actual (loss) return on plan assets for fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, whereas the net periodic pension cost within non-GAAP income from continuing operations includes $70.7 million, $4.2 million, and $5.5 million of expected long-term return on pension and OPEB assets for fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

(2)Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure that provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations as it provides another measure of our profitability, our ability to service our debt, and is considered an important measure by financial analysts covering CSRA and peer companies in our industry. This Adjusted EBITDA is based on CSRA’s credit agreement and among the adjustments we make, is the removal of actuarial gains and losses related to our various defined benefit plans. While such gains and losses are ultimately settled in cash, we make these adjustments as means to more clearly demonstrate to investors our core operating performance. Our definition of such measure may differ from other companies. 

The following table presents a reconciliation of Income from continuing operations to Adjusted EBITDA:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

45

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

• We announced contract awards(3) of $6,847.2 million during fiscal 2016 as compared to $2,932.9 million during fiscal 2015. 

• Total backlog(4) as of April 1, 2016 was $15,097.8 million as compared to $11,134.7 million at the end of fiscal 2015. Of the total $15,097.8 million backlog, $3,807.6 million is expected to be realized as revenue during fiscal 2017, and $12,199.6 million is not yet funded. 

• Days Sales Outstanding (“DSO”)(5) was 52 days as of April 1, 2016, an improvement from 64 days at the end of the prior fiscal year. The improvement in DSO was primarily due to the sale of trade receivables, without which DSO would have been 65 days.

• Cash provided by operating activities was $553.5 million and $486.9 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, respectively.

• Cash used in investing activities was $1,605.3 million and $116.6 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, respectively.

• Cash provided by financing activities was $1,176.8 million and used in financing activities was $369.3 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, respectively.

• Free cash flow(6) was $277.9 million and $387.8 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, respectively. 

(3)Announced award values for competitive indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity awards represent the expected contract value at the time a task order is awarded under the contract. Announced values for non-competitive indefinite delivery/indefinite quantity awards represent management’s estimate at the award date. Our business awards, for all periods presented, have been recast to exclude the awards relating to discontinued operations.

(4)Backlog represents the total estimated contract value of predominantly long-term contracts, based on customer commitments that we believe to be firm, less the amount of revenue already recognized on those contracts. Backlog value is based on contract commitments, management’s judgment and assumptions about volume of services, availability of customer funding and other factors. Backlog estimates for government contracts include both the funded and unfunded portions and all of the option periods. Backlog estimates are subject to change and may be affected by factors including modifications of contracts and foreign currency movements. Our backlog, for all periods presented, has been recast to exclude the backlog relating to discontinued operations.

(5)DSO is calculated as total receivables at the fiscal period end divided by revenue-per-day. Revenue-per-day equals total revenues divided by the number of days in the fiscal period. Total receivables includes unbilled receivables but excludes tax receivables and long-term receivables.

(6)Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and our definition of such measure may differ from that used by other companies. We define free cash flow as equal to the sum of (1) operating cash flows, (2) investing cash flows, excluding business acquisitions, dispositions and investments and (3) payments on capital leases and other long-term asset financings. Free cash flow is further adjusted for certain non-recurring cash flow items, such as (i) separation-related payments and (ii) the sale of account receivables.

46

Our free cash flow measure does not distinguish operating cash flows from investing cash flows as they are required to be presented in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered a substitute for operating and investing cash flows as determined in accordance with GAAP. Free cash flow is one of the factors our management uses in reviewing the overall performance of the business. Management compensates for the limitations of this non-GAAP measure by also reviewing the GAAP measures of operating, investing and financing cash flows. Free cash flow provides both management and investors a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available to fund acquisitions, pay dividends, repay debt and repurchase our common stock. A reconciliation of free cash flow to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is presented below:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Business Drivers

Revenue in both segments is generated by providing services on a variety of contract types which vary in duration from as little as six months to more than 10 years. Factors affecting revenue include our ability to successfully:

•bid on and win new contract awards;

•satisfy existing customers and obtain add-on business and win contract recompetes;

•compete on services offered, delivery models offered, technical ability and innovation, quality, flexibility, experience, and results created; and

•identify and integrate acquisitions and leverage them to generate new revenues.

Earnings are impacted by the above revenue factors and, in addition, our ability to:

•control costs, particularly labor costs, subcontractor expenses, and overhead costs including healthcare, pension and general and administrative costs;

•anticipate talent needs to avoid staff shortages or excesses;

•accurately estimate various factors incorporated in contract bids and proposals; and

•migrate compatible service offerings to low cost areas.

Cash flows are affected by the above earnings factors and, in addition, by the following factors:

•timely management of receivables and payables;

•investment opportunities available, particularly related to business acquisitions;

47

•tax obligations; and

•the ability to efficiently manage capital deployed for software and property and equipment.

Key Performance Indicators

We manage and assess the performance of our business through various means, with the primary financial measures including contract wins, revenue, operating income, and free cash flow.

Contract wins. In addition to being a primary driver of future revenue, contract wins also provide management an assessment of our ability to compete. The total level of wins tends to fluctuate from year to year depending on the timing of new or recompeted contracts, as well as numerous external factors.

Revenue. Revenue is a product of contracts won in prior periods, known as backlog, and work secured in the current year. Year-over-year revenues tend to vary less than contract wins, and reflect performance on both new and existing contracts.

Operating Income. Operating income reflects our performance on contracts and ability to control direct costs related to those contracts. Operating income, which is also a key element of our executive compensation metrics, reflects the impact of revenue growth and mix, investments in technology, cost takeout, and operational efficiencies. See the definition of this non-GAAP measure in (1) above within Overview.

Free cash flow. Primary drivers of our free cash flow are earnings provided by our operations and the use of capital to generate those earnings. Also contributing to short-term cash flow results are movements in current asset and liability balances. See the definition of this non-GAAP measure in (6) above within Overview.

Economic and Industry Factors

Our revenues are generated almost exclusively from contracts with the U.S. federal government and with state governments on programs funded by the federal government. As a result, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending and the alignment of our offerings and capabilities with the budget priorities of the U.S. government. While we believe that federal discretionary spending will grow, government budget deficits and the national U.S. debt will constrain spending across all federal agencies. Adverse changes in fiscal and economic conditions, including sequestration, future government shutdowns, and issues related to the nation’s debt ceiling could materially impact our business.

Our market is highly competitive and has characteristics unique to the federal contracting environment. Almost all of our U.S. federal government contracts and subcontracts may be modified, curtailed, or terminated either at the convenience of the government or for default based on factors set forth in the FAR. Our results of operations are also affected by the evolving priorities of the U.S. federal government, as well as by the pace of technological change and the type and level of technology spending by our customers. The ability to identify and capitalize on these markets and technological changes early in their cycles is a key driver of our performance. Our results of operations are also impacted by economic conditions generally, including macroeconomic conditions, and the impact that they have on the U.S. federal government. 

Our large addressable market has stabilized after years of sequestration-driven austerity. The current U.S. federal government budget includes $81.5 billion for IT within an overall contracted services spend of more than $250 billion. The President’s request for the next GFY is also $81.5 billion for IT. GFY 2017 IT includes cyber security funding of $19 billion in GFY 2017, up 36% from the $14 billion that was indicated for this area in GFY 2016. The DoD is requesting $6.7 billion of that amount, up 22% from $5.5 billion. 

Revenues are driven by our ability to secure new contracts and to deliver solutions and services that add value to our customers. To drive revenue growth we must deliver market-leading service offerings and deploy skilled teams of professionals quickly across all government industries and domains. We believe that our scale, combination 

48

of technical expertise in applications and IT infrastructure solutions combined with our deep public sector mission knowledge and experience, firmly established vendor partnerships, and commitment to a culture of frugality will enable us to compete effectively in the current market environment. 

See “Risk Factors” in Part I of this Annual Report for additional discussion of our industry and regulatory environment.

Results of Operations

We report our results based on a fiscal year convention that comprises four thirteen-week quarters. Every fifth year includes an additional week in the first quarter of the fiscal year to prevent the fiscal year from moving from an approximate end of March date. As a result, the first quarter of fiscal 2015 had an extra week.

Despite the variable component of extra-week revenue, our costs during the extra week were largely fixed. At the upper end of the revenue range, we believe that cost ratios and operating margin on the incremental revenue would not be dissimilar to our overall business. However, at lower levels of incremental revenue, cost ratios may have been higher and operating margin lower than our overall business.

Revenues

Revenues for the Defense and Intelligence and Civil segments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major factors affecting the percent change in revenues are presented as follows:

For the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, our total revenue increased by $180.7 million, or 4.4%, as compared to the same period of the prior year. Excluding revenue of $461.2 million attributable to SRA, revenue for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 amounted to $3,789.3 million, a decrease of $280.5 million compared to the same period of the prior year. Revenue declined due to reductions in the Logistics Modernization Program for the U.S. Army, as well as a lower overall volume of direct material and other direct cost purchases. The decrease also resulted from the extra week in fiscal 2015, which did not recur in fiscal 2016. We won contracts with award values of $6,847.2 million during the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 as compared to $2,932.9 million during the twelve months ended April 3, 2015.

Our fiscal 2015 revenue decreased $32.9 million, or 0.8%, as compared to fiscal 2014. This decline was primarily attributable to Defense and Intelligence contracts, partially offset by a revenue increase from Civil contracts. We won contracts with award values of $2,932.9 million during fiscal 2015 as compared to $4,279.4 million during fiscal 2014.

Defense and Intelligence Segment

49

Fiscal 2016

For the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, Defense and Intelligence segment revenues decreased by $59.6 million, or 2.8% as compared to the same period of the prior year primarily due to reduced contract tasking and contract conclusions offset by the additional revenue attributable to SRA. Excluding revenue of $137.1 million attributable to SRA, the $196.7 million revenue decrease was due to a net reduction in tasking on existing contracts with the U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, NSA and DISA. In addition, there was lower revenue of $37.1 million on certain contracts with the Defense Intelligence Agency and Missile Defense Agency that either had concluded or were winding down, and $28.9 million of lower revenue as a result of the first quarter fiscal 2016 divestiture of Welkin. These revenue decreases were partially offset by $51.2 million of revenue on new or expanded contracts with the U.S. Navy, U.S. Army and other DOD agencies and a classified customer with $40.2 million of revenue from the fiscal 2015 acquisition of Tenacity Solutions.

Fiscal 2015

Defense and Intelligence segment revenues decreased $202.7 million, or 8.7%. These revenue decreases included reduced revenue of $80 million on certain contracts with the U.S. Navy, U.S. Army, DISA and other DOD agencies that either had concluded or were winding down, and reduced revenue of $148 million due to a net reduction in tasking or scope on existing contracts, primarily with the U.S. Army, the Missile Defense Agency, DISA and other DOD agencies. These reductions are partially due to changes in U.S. federal government budgetary priorities and the wind down of activities supporting defense agencies’ war efforts. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $26 million from an acquired entity and from a new contract with the U.S. Army.

Civil Segment

Fiscal 2016

For the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, Civil segment revenues increased by $240.3 million, or 12.4% as compared to the same period of the prior year primarily due to the additional revenue attributable to SRA which was offset by reduced contract tasking and contract conclusions. Excluding revenue of $324.1 million attributable to SRA, the $83.8 million revenue decrease was primarily due to reduced tasking on programs with the Department of Treasury, NASA, DHS and other federal agencies that had either ended or were winding down. Revenue from contracts with non-federal agencies increased $26.9 million primarily due to an increase in tasking on a state contract. 

Fiscal 2015 

Civil segment revenues increased $169.8 million, or 9.6%. The increase was primarily due to revenue of $112 million on a state contract that was previously deferred under software revenue recognition guidance, increases of $81 million on existing contracts due to a net increase in tasking or scope, primarily with the DHS, the Department of State, the Department of Commerce and NASA, and increases of $51 million on new contract awards, primarily with the General Services Administration and other civilian agencies. These increases were partially offset by reductions of $75 million on contracts primarily with the Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”), NASA and other civilian agencies that either had concluded or were winding down. 

Operating Income

Operating income and operating margin for the Defense and Intelligence and Civil segments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

50

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The major factors affecting the percent change in operating income and operating income margin are presented as follows:

Defense and Intelligence Segment

Fiscal 2016

For the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, Defense and Intelligence segment operating income increased by $19.1 million, or 7.5% as compared to the same period of the prior year. Excluding Defense and Intelligence segment operating loss of $3.1 million attributable to SRA, the increase in operating income and operating margin for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 was primarily the result of better contract performance, other program related efficiencies, and efficiencies in the SG&A levels. 

Fiscal 2015

Defense and Intelligence segment operating income decreased by $46.3 million, or 15.4%, as compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease in operating income was a result of the decrease in revenue discussed above, along with lower year-over-year net favorable cost adjustments on programs accounted for under percentage of completion. These decreases were partially offset by lower expenses due to management’s focus on cost reduction initiatives, resulting in only a 1 percentage point decline from 12.9% to 11.9% in the operating income margin.

Civil Segment

Fiscal 2016

For the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, Civil segment operating income decreased by $2.6 million, or 0.9% as compared to the same period of the prior year. Excluding Civil segment operating income of $6 million attributable to SRA, the decrease of $8.6 million in operating income for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 was primarily the result of lower net favorable adjustments on programs accounted for under percentage-of-completion accounting. Operating income margin decreased by 1.8 percentage points from 15.1% to 13.3%, due largely to the change in contract mix with the additions of SRA and the lower net favorable adjustments programs accounted for under the percentage-of-completion accounting. 

Fiscal 2015

Civil segment operating income increased by $92.7 million, or 46.4%, as compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in operating income was the result of management’s focus on cost reduction initiatives and lower headcount. Operating income was also impacted by higher year-over-year net favorable revenue adjustments on programs accounted for under percentage of completion along with the overall increase in revenue discussed 

51

above. Operating income margin increased from 11.3% to 15.1% due largely to management’s focus on cost reduction initiatives. 

Costs and Expenses

Our total costs and expenses were as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Included in both COS and SG&A expenses are $202.8 million, $8.3 million, and $(2.5) million of pension and postretirement actuarial losses (gains), settlement losses and amortization of other comprehensive income for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, April 3, 2015, and March 28, 2014, respectively. COS also includes related party transactions with CSC in periods prior to the Spin-Off of $4.8 million, $7.8 million and $8.3 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Costs of Services

Fiscal 2016

COS, as a percentage of revenue, increased to 84.1% for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 as compared to 80.7% for the same period of the prior year. 

COS was negatively impacted by the $196.7 million increase from mark-to-market adjustments in our various defined benefit plans and increases in the expected returns on plan assets when compared to the same period of the prior year. Excluding the impact of mark-to-market adjustments, COS as a percentage of revenue would have been 79.5%. The decrease as a percentage of revenue for the period is a result of a stronger mix of revenue (e.g., more labor services and fewer direct material pass-throughs), program delivery efficiencies, indirect cost reductions, and merger synergies. 

Fiscal 2015

COS, as a percentage of revenue, decreased to 80.7% for fiscal 2015 from 81.6% for fiscal 2014. Overall, COS benefited from lower indirect expenses compared to fiscal 2014 due to continued reductions in overhead management, other staff and facility costs. COS were also favorably impacted by the direct labor staffing profile cost reductions and other program related efficiencies. 

Selling, General and Administrative

Fiscal 2016

SG&A expense, as a percentage of revenue, decreased to 4.4% for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 as compared to 4.8% from the same period of the prior year, mainly due to merger cost synergies.

Fiscal 2015

52

SG&A expense, as a percentage of revenue increased to 4.8% for fiscal 2015 from 4.6% for fiscal 2014. The fiscal 2015 increase was primarily due to lower revenues and an increase in bid and proposal investments to win new and recompeted contracts and increase the levels of backlog.

Depreciation and Amortization (D&A)

D&A for the Defense and Intelligence and Civil segments are as follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Fiscal 2016

D&A, as a percentage of revenue, increased to 4.3% for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 as compared to 3.4% from the same period of the prior year. Excluding D&A of $43.3 million largely attributable to the acquisition of SRA and the customer and contract related intangibles recognized, D&A, as a percentage of revenue, for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 was 3.3%, slightly lower than the same period of the prior year. 

Fiscal 2015

D&A as a percentage of revenue decreased slightly to 3.4% as compared to 3.5% from the same period of the prior year due to normal D&A.

Separation and Merger Costs

Separation and merger costs were costs incurred to give effect to Computer Sciences GS’s separation from CSC and subsequent merger with SRA. These costs are primarily comprised of third-party accounting, legal and other consulting services, as well as information technology infrastructure and application costs. For the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, separation and merger costs were $118 million. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, all merger costs incurred by Computer Sciences GS were paid by CSRA.

Interest Expense, Net

Fiscal 2016

Interest expense of $53.5 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 increased by $31.6 million compared to $21.9 million of interest expense for the same period of the prior year due to the incurrence of debt related to the Spin-Off and Mergers. 

Fiscal 2015

Interest expense of $21.9 million in fiscal 2015 increased $1.6 million compared to $20.3 million in fiscal 2014. The increase was primarily due to the full year effect of new capital leases added in fiscal 2014.

Other Expense, Net

Fiscal 2016

53

Other (income) expense, net comprises gains and losses from the sale of businesses and non-operating assets, the impact of movement in foreign currency exchange rates on CSRA's foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and other miscellaneous gains and losses.

Other income amounted to $15.2 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 compared to other expenses of $5.6 million for the same period of the prior year. Of the $20.8 million change, $18.6 million is due to the pre-tax gain from the divestiture of Welkin. Other components of the change include the impact of a strengthening dollar in 2016 when compared to other currencies. 

Fiscal 2015 

Other expenses of $5.6 million in fiscal 2015 increased as compared to $1.9 million in fiscal 2014. The $3.7 million increase is due to a $1.9 million increase in intercompany fees from CSC, coupled with a $1.5 million increase in foreign currency exchange losses. 

Taxes

Our effective tax rate (“ETR”) on income from continuing operations for fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014 was 30.9%, 37.6%, and 36.6%, respectively. The lower ETR in fiscal 2016 was primarily driven by the tax benefit generated by CSRA’s payment of a special dividend following the Spin-Off transaction. Our tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. A reconciliation of the differences between the U.S. federal statutory rate and the ETR, as well as other information about our income tax provision, is provided in Note 16 — Income Taxes to the accompanying Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. For the tax impact of discontinued operations, see Note 4—Divestitures to the accompanying Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. 

Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance of $8.7 million has been recorded against deferred tax assets as of April 1, 2016 relating to net operating losses in foreign jurisdictions. 

Share-Based Compensation Expense

In connection with the Spin-Off, the equity compensation awards in fiscal 2016 of employees of CSC who became employees of CSRA were converted into equity awards of CSRA having the same terms and conditions as their prior CSC awards.

In connection with the Mergers, CSRA exchanged outstanding options held by SRA employees for options to purchase, on the same terms and conditions, shares of common stock of CSRA. The number of shares subject to the options granted in exchange was equal to the number of common shares of SRA that would have been received or a number of shares of CSRA common stock that would provide the equivalent value to the SRA common shares determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, depending if the exercise price was higher, equal to or less than the market value at the time of the exchange.

For the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, the total expense recognized in CSRA’s results of operations related to these equity awards is $10.2 million.

During fiscal year 2016, a number of new equity awards were granted, consisting of performance conditioned restricted stock units, restricted stock units and non-qualified stock options, which are subject to a variety of service, performance and market conditions. As of April 1, 2016, none of the performance and market conditions were met for grants issued in fiscal year 2016. 

For the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, compensation expense recognized in CSRA’s results of operations 

54

related to these awards was approximately $2.1 million. The compensation costs related to non-vested awards not yet recognized amounts to approximately $4.1 million and will be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.2 years or over the remaining service period depending on the awards. 

Income from Discontinued Operations

In 2015, we incurred approximately $1.9 million in after-tax losses related to the ATD divestiture due to a settlement on ATD-related litigation and related legal expenses. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash Flows

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Cash Flow

Net cash provided by operating activities for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 was $553.5 million, an increase of $66.6 million compared to the twelve months ended April 3, 2015 in part due to the Mergers. Excluding cash flows provided by operating activities of $7.6 million attributable to SRA, the increase in net operating cash flow was primarily attributable to the decrease in accounts receivable due to our receivable sales program offset by costs associated with the Spin-Off and merger transactions. 

Net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2015 of $486.9 million decreased by $90.9 million as compared to fiscal 2014. This decrease in net operating cash flow was primarily attributable to a decrease in net income, coupled with lower year-over-year collections from customers. These decreases were partially offset by lower pension contributions.

Investing Cash Flow

Net cash used in investing activities for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 was $1,605.3 million, as compared to cash used in investing activities for the twelve months ended April 3, 2015 of $116.6 million. The primary use of cash from investing activities was the $1,472.2 million towards the purchase of SRA, including the extinguishment of $1,100.7 million of SRA debt. Excluding cash flows used in investing activities of $11.0 million attributable to SRA, the increase resulted primarily from the purchase of property and equipment offset by business dispositions. 

Net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2015 was $116.6 million, as compared to cash provided by investing activities in fiscal 2014 of $75.0 million. The significant change resulted primarily from proceeds received from the 2014 divestiture of a portion of a business, which did not recur in fiscal 2015, coupled with the fiscal 2015 cash payments for an acquisition of a business which did not occur in fiscal 2014.

Financing Cash Flow

55

Net cash provided by financing activities for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 was $1,176.8 million, which was an increase of $1,546.1 million from the twelve months ended April 3, 2015. The significant changes in financing cash flows related to the incurrence of $3,000 million of debt associated with the Spin-Off and Mergers, including the payment of the $1,147.8 million Special Dividend. Excluding cash flows used in financing activities of $15.3 million attributable to SRA, the increase was primarily attributable to the lower lease payments and transfers to CSC. 

Net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2015 was $369.3 million, a decrease of $289.8 million from fiscal 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in cash transfers to CSC as a result of lower operating cash flows.

Discussion of Financial Condition

Cash and Cash equivalents were $130 million and $5 million as of April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, respectively.

After the Spin-Off, CSRA became the primary seller of certain accounts receivable under a Master Accounts Receivable Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”) that was first entered into on April 21, 2015 with The Royal Bank of Scotland, PLC (“RBS”), as Purchaser, along with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Ltd, and Bank of Nova Scotia, each as a Participant, for the continuous non-recourse sale of our eligible trade receivables. 

On August 20, 2015, CSRA amended the Purchase Agreement with RBS in which RBS assigned its rights as a Purchaser to The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd (“BTMU”). The Purchase Agreement was also amended to add The Bank of Nova Scotia and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., each as a Purchaser. The amended Purchase Agreement also converted the receivables purchase facility (the “Facility”) to a committed facility and extended the initial term to a two-year period, while adding CSRA as a guarantor.

Under the Facility, CSRA can sell our eligible receivables, including billed receivables and certain unbilled receivables arising from “cost plus fixed fee” and “time and materials” contracts up to $450 million outstanding at any one time. CSRA has no retained interests in the transferred receivables, and only perform collection and administrative functions for the Purchaser for a servicing fee. 

During the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, CSRA sold $2,496.1 million of our billed and unbilled receivables for cash. Collections corresponding to these receivables sales were $2,323.9 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016. As of April 1, 2016, there was also $8 million of cash collected but not remitted due to timing of settlements, which was recorded as restricted cash. We incurred purchase discount and administrative fees of just over $2 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016. The cash flow impact of accounts receivable sales, including adjustments for purchase discount and administrative fees, was $170 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 under the Purchase Agreement.

Upon consummation of the Mergers, CSRA assumed SRA’s separate account receivable purchase agreement. SRA maintains an accounts receivable purchase agreement under which SRA sells certain accounts receivable to a third party, or the Factor, without recourse to SRA. The Factor initially pays SRA 90% of the receivable and the remaining price is deferred and recognized once the Factor collects from SRA’s customer. The structure of the transaction provides for a legal and accounting true sale, on a revolving basis, of the receivables transferred. Accordingly, upon transfer of the receivable to the Factor, the receivable is removed from the balance sheet, a loss on the sale is recorded based on the then applicable purchase discount, and the deferred price is recorded as an account receivable until it is collected. The balance of the sold receivables may not exceed $56 million at any time. 

Since merging with CSRA, SRA sold $107.7 million of SRA’s receivables, and recognized purchase discounts and administrative fees of approximately $0.3 million in selling, general and administrative expenses. Collections corresponding to these receivable sales were $105.1 million as of April 1, 2016. As of April 1, 2016, there was also no cash collected by SRA but not remitted to the Factor. Purchase discounts and administrative fees were recorded within Other (income) expense, net in the audited Consolidated and Combined Statements of Operations. The free 

56

cash flow impact of accounts receivable sales, including adjustments for purchase discount and administrative fees, was $2.3 million for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016 under SRA’s accounts receivable purchase agreement.

Liquidity

As of April 1, 2016, CSRA’s total liquidity was $780 million, consisting of $130 million of cash and cash equivalents and $650 million available under CSRA's revolving credit facility. In the opinion of management, CSRA will be able to meet its liquidity and cash needs for at least the next twelve months through the combination of cash flows from operating activities, available cash balances, and available borrowings under CSRA's revolving credit facility. If these resources need to be augmented, additional cash requirements would likely be financed by the issuance of debt or equity securities. However, there can be no assurances that CSRA will be able to obtain debt financing on acceptable terms in the future.

Our exposure to operational liquidity is primarily from long-term contracts which require significant investment of cash flows from operating activities during the initial phases of the contracts. The recovery of these investments is over the life of the contract and is dependent upon our performance as well as customer acceptance. Continued uncertainty in global economic conditions may also affect our business as customers and suppliers may decide to downsize, defer or cancel contracts, which could negatively affect operating cash flows.

Our primary cash needs continue to be for working capital, capital expenditures, commitments and other discretionary investments; however, our capital structure and sources of liquidity changed from our historical capital structure because we no longer participate in CSC’s centralized cash management program. Our ability to fund our operating needs depends, in part, on our ability to continue to generate positive cash flow from operations or, if necessary, raise cash in the capital markets. 

At the end of fiscal 2016, CSRA’s ratio of net debt-to-total capitalization was 92.7%, an increase of 81 percentage points from the end of fiscal 2015. The increase in the ratio was primarily the result of the addition of new debt as a result of the Spin-Off and Mergers.

The following table summarizes CSRA’s capitalization ratios as of the end of fiscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2015:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

57

(7) Total debt is the sum of short and long-term components of GAAP debt and capitalized leases.

(8) Net debt is a non-GAAP measure and our determination of it may not be comparable with calculations of similar measures by other issuers. We calculate net debt by subtracting cash and cash equivalents from total debt (including capitalized leases). We believe that net debt assists in providing a more complete understanding of our financial position and we use it to monitor our financial leverage. We believe that net debt is useful to investors because it provides insights into our financial strength.

Debt Financing

At April 1, 2016, CSRA had $128.0 million of short-term borrowings and current maturities of long-term debt, and $2,656.3 million of long-term debt. 

We obtained financing in connection with the Spin-Off and the Mergers under various facilities as follows: (1) a five-year senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) with an initial borrowing capacity of $700 million, of which, immediately after the consummation of the Spin-Off and the Mergers, $650 million was available and undrawn as of April 1, 2016; (2) a three-year senior secured tranche A1 term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $600 million (the “Tranche A1 Facility”); (3) a five-year senior secured tranche A2 term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1,450 million (the “Tranche A2 Facility”; and, together with the Tranche A1 Facility, the “Term Loan A Facilities”) and (4) a seven-year senior secured term loan B facility in an aggregate principal amount of $750 million (the “Term Loan B Facility”; and, together with the Term Loan A Facilities, the “Term Loan Facilities”), all of which are guaranteed by CSRA’s significant domestic subsidiaries (the “Guarantors”) and are secured by substantially all of the assets of CSRA and the Guarantors. The Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facilities have the following material terms:

•Interest. Borrowings under (1) the Revolving Credit Facility and the Tranche A2 Facility bear interest at an interest rate per annum equal to, at our option, (A) LIBOR plus the applicable margin of 1.250%-2.250% or (B) the base rate plus the applicable margin of 0.250%-1.250%; (2) the Tranche A1 Facility bears interest at an interest rate per annum equal to, at our option, (A) LIBOR plus the applicable margin of 1.125%-2.125% or (B) the base rate plus the applicable margin of 0.125%-1.125% and (3) the Term Loan B Facility bears interest at an interest rate per annum equal to, at our option, (A) LIBOR plus the applicable margin of 2.75%-3.00%, subject to a 0.75% LIBOR floor or (B) the base rate plus the applicable margin of 1.75%-2.00%, subject to a 1.75% base rate floor. The applicable margins for borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and borrowings under the Term Loan A Facilities vary and are determined based on our corporate credit rating or corporate family rating. The applicable margins for borrowings under the Term Loan B Facility vary and are determined based on the ratio of our consolidated total net debt to our consolidated EBITDA.

•Amortization. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility can be prepaid at any time and can be repeatedly redrawn until its maturity. The Tranche A1 Facility has no scheduled amortization prior to maturity. The Tranche A2 Facility requires quarterly scheduled amortization at a rate equivalent to 5% of the original principal amount per annum until the remaining balance is due at maturity.

•Covenants. The Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facilities contain negative covenants customary for financings of this type, including covenants that place limitations on the incurrence of additional indebtedness; the creation of liens; the payment of dividends; sales of assets; fundamental changes, including mergers and acquisitions; loans and investments; negative pledges; transactions with affiliates; restrictions affecting subsidiaries; modification to charter documents in a manner materially adverse to the lenders; changes in fiscal year and limitations on conduct of business. The Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facilities also contain affirmative covenants and representations and warranties customary for financings of this type. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facilities contain financial maintenance covenants requiring, as at the end of, and for, each fiscal quarter of CSRA ending after November 27, 2015, (1) a ratio of consolidated total net debt to consolidated EBITDA not in excess of 4:00:1:00, stepping down to 3.50:1.00 at the end of the first full fiscal quarter ending at least 18 months 

58

after November 27, 2015 and (2) a consolidated EBITDA to interest expense ratio of not less than 3.00:1.00.

•Excess Cash Flow. The Term Loan Facilities require the Company to prepay outstanding term loans, subject to certain exceptions, in the case of excess annual cash flow and in the event of certain asset sales, casualty events and issuances of debt. Any required excess cash flow payments are due within 90 days following the end of the fiscal year. As of April 1, 2016, the Company is required to pay $48.0 million related to FY16 excess cash flow, and that amount is included in current maturities of long-term debt. 

•Events of Default. The lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan Facilities may declare any indebtedness outstanding thereunder due and payable and cancel any remaining commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility, if an event of default occurs and is continuing, including a failure to pay principal when due or interest or commitment fees within five days of the date when due; a material inaccuracy of a representation or warranty at the time made; a bankruptcy event; a failure to comply with the covenants, subject to a customary grace period; cross-events of default to material indebtedness; certain material ERISA events; material judgments; actual or asserted invalidity of any guarantee or non-perfection of any material portion of the collateral under the security documents; a change in control; and, with respect to the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan A Facilities only, a breach of the financial covenants.

On November 27, 2015, all of the Tranche A1 Facility and a portion of the Tranche A2 Facility were funded in an aggregate amount of $1,560 million, the proceeds of which were used to fund the Special Dividend (including the portion of the Special Dividend paid by CSC to its stockholders) and to pay transaction costs. On November 30, 2015, $200 million of the Revolving Credit Facility, the remainder of the Tranche A2 Facility and all of the Term Loan B Facility were funded in an additional aggregate amount of $1,240 million, the proceeds of which were used to fund the cash portion of the Merger Consideration to holders of SRA common stock, to repay, refinance or redeem substantially all of SRA’s existing indebtedness, to pay for additional transaction costs and for general corporate purposes.

 In March 2016, CSRA executed a series of hedging transactions to manage the interest rate risk related to $1,400 million of its Senior Secured Term Loan A facilities. CSRA’s objectives in using cash flow hedges are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements (see Note 9—Derivative Instruments). 

We have liquidity available for debt servicing and other discretionary investments from free cash flow and the Revolving Credit Facility, of which $650 million remained available but undrawn. Debt service in the first five years is expected to be funded from available free cash flow, while still maintaining available liquidity for short-term working capital and other cash requirements needs. Our expected liquidity and capital structure may be impacted, however, by discretionary investments and acquisitions that CSRA could decide to pursue. While the timing and financial magnitude of these possible actions are currently indeterminable, CSRA expects to be able to manage and adjust its capital structure in the future to meet its liquidity needs.

The amount of indebtedness incurred in connection with the Spin-Off and Mergers was based on various factors including expected operating results, expected free cash flow generation, credit ratings considerations, ensuring strategic and financial flexibility, anticipated business plans, and general economic conditions. We believe our capital structure and financial strength will provide us with financial flexibility in a dynamic industry that we believe affords competitive and strategic advantages to providers that maintain financial flexibility.

Subsequent to the Spin-Off and Mergers, all three major rating agencies that rate CSRA’s debt took rating actions. Fitch issued an initial credit rating of BBB- with "Stable" outlook. Moody's issued an initial credit rating of Ba2 with "Stable" outlook. S&P issued an initial credit rating of BB+ with “Stable” outlook.

The most recent ratings and outlooks issued by Fitch, Moody's and S&P are described in the table below:

59

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Credit rating agencies review their ratings periodically and, therefore, the credit rating assigned to CSRA by each agency may be subject to revision at any time. Accordingly, CSRA is not able to predict whether its current credit ratings will remain as disclosed above. Factors that can affect CSRA's credit ratings include changes in its operating performance, its financial position, the outcome of ongoing litigation as well as regulatory action, and changes in its business strategy. If further changes in CSRA's credit ratings were to occur, they could impact, among other things, its future borrowing costs and access to capital markets.

Equity Transactions

On November 30, 2015, CSRA's Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing up to $400 million in share repurchases of CSRA's outstanding common stock. The timing, volume, and nature of future share repurchases are at the discretion of management and the Audit Committee, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. CSRA plans to offset equity grants through share repurchases over time, balancing them with debt reduction and other forms of cash deployment. The repurchase program expires on March 31, 2019. During fiscal 2016, CSRA repurchased and retired 1,768,129 shares of common stock through open market purchases for aggregate consideration of $50 million at an average price of $28.23 per share. 

As of April 1, 2016, CSRA had repurchased shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $50 million, or the maximum aggregate purchase price of shares authorized pursuant to the agreement with Citigroup. CSRA has remaining authorization to repurchase $350 million of common stock as of April 1, 2016 pursuant to its Share Repurchase Program. 

During fiscal 2016, CSRA declared quarterly cash dividends to its common stockholders aggregating $0.20 per share, or approximately $32.6 million. In the opinion of management, CSRA has sufficient liquidity and expects to continue paying quarterly cash dividends although such payments are subject to continued approval by CSRA's Board of Directors.

Off Balance Sheet Arrangements

As of April 1, 2016, we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in our financial condition, revenues, or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.

Contractual Obligations

The following table summarizes the expiration of the surety bonds and letters of credit associated with our performance guarantees and expiration of the stand-by letters of credit used in lieu of cash, outstanding as of April 1, 2016 (see Note 22—Commitments and Contingencies in the audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements):

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

60

The following table summarizes our future payments, excluding the effects of time value, on contractual obligations by period as of April 1, 2016:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a) Includes scheduled principal payments. Excludes capitalized lease liabilities.

(b) Includes scheduled interest payments on long-term debt.

To the extent we can reliably determine when payments will occur pertaining to unrecognized tax benefit liabilities, the related amounts will be included in the table above. However, due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the timing of potential future cash flows associated with the approximately $39 million of such liabilities at April 1, 2016, we are unable to make a reliable estimate of when amounts, if any, may be paid to the respective taxing authorities.

Regarding minimum purchase obligations included above, we have occasionally signed long-term purchase agreements with certain service providers to obtain favorable pricing, committed service levels and terms for services necessary for the operation of business activities. For these limited number of agreements, we are contractually committed to purchase specified service minimums over remaining periods ranging generally from one to four years. If we do not meet the specified service minimums, we may have an obligation to pay the service provider a portion or the entire shortfall.

As of April 1, 2016 CSRA’s Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements reflected projected pension benefit obligations that exceeded related plan assets, resulting in a deficit in funded status under GAAP of approximately $637.2 million for the qualified plans as of April 1, 2016. Under the Code, including ERISA, Pension Protection Act (“PPA”) and the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014 (“HATFA”), the funded value of our aggregate plan assets as of December 31, 2015 exceeded estimated liabilities by approximately $365.0 million. In addition, at December 31, 2015 our aggregate excess funding balance, which is the amount that would need to be exhausted before we would be required to make additional cash contributions to those plans, was approximately $315.0 million. Because funding status as determined under the Code, as amended by HATFA, rather than under GAAP, governs our obligation to make required cash contributions to those plans, we do not currently expect to be required to make any cash contributions to our qualified U.S. defined benefit plans for fiscal years 2017, 2018 or 2019, with the exception of any payments required by our November 2015 agreement with PBGC if we are unable to meet certain conditions. We are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the timing and amount of cash outflows for future. As a result, pension benefit obligations have been excluded from the above table. 

During fiscal 2016, we contributed $1.5 million to postretirement plans. During fiscal 2016, pension benefits contributions amounted to $2.8 million. Refer to the Critical Accounting Estimates section later in this MD&A and to Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements for further discussion.

Critical Accounting Estimates

Recent accounting pronouncements and the anticipated impact to CSRA are described in the notes to the audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K.

61

Our audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 — Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. The preparation of audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Many of the estimates made are for contract-specific issues. Changes to estimates or assumptions on a specific contract could result in a material adjustment to the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. 

We have identified several critical accounting estimates. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved and (b) the impact of changes in the estimates and assumptions would have a material effect on the audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements. Our critical accounting estimates relate to revenue recognition, cost estimation and recoverability on long-term, fixed-price contracts; revenue recognition on software license sales that require significant customization; software development costs; estimates used to determine deferred income taxes; assumptions related to purchase accounting and goodwill; assumptions to determine retirement benefits costs and liabilities; and assumptions and estimates used to analyze contingencies and litigation. For all of these estimates, we caution that future events rarely develop exactly as forecast, and the best estimates routinely require adjustment.

Revenue recognition

Substantially all of our revenue is derived from contracts with departments and agencies of the U.S. federal government, as well as other state and local government agencies. We generate our revenue from the following types of contractual arrangements: time and materials contracts, firm-fixed-price contracts and cost-plus-fee contracts. We also provide services to other businesses of CSC, which are included as related party revenues for the periods presented prior to the Spin-Off. After the Spin-Off, these services are included in revenues. 

Due to the long-term nature of our contracts, the amounts we record in our financial statements using contract accounting methods are material and require us to make reasonably dependable estimates for the design and delivery of our services. Some contract sales may include estimated amounts not contractually agreed to by the customer, including cost or performance incentives (such as award and incentive fees), unpriced change orders, claims and requests for equitable adjustment. Amounts pertaining to cost or performance incentives are included in estimated contract sales when they are reasonably estimable.

Percentage-of-completion method

Contracts with the U.S. federal government and certain contracts with customers other than the U.S. federal government require the use of estimates-at-completion (“EAC”) in the application of the percentage-of-completion accounting method, whereby the determination of revenues and costs on a contract through its completion can require significant judgment and estimation. Under this method, and subject to the effects of changes in estimates, we recognize revenue using an estimated margin at completion as contract milestones or other input- or output-based measures are achieved. This can result in costs being deferred as work in process until contractual billing milestones are achieved. Alternatively, this can result in revenue recognized in advance of billing milestones if output-based or input-based measures are achieved. Contracts that require estimates at completion using the percentage-of-completion method accounted for approximately 43.4% of our revenues for the twelve months ended April 1, 2016.

We regularly review project profitability and underlying estimates and closely monitor compliance with, and the consistent application of, our critical accounting policies related to contract accounting including the preparation of EACs for our contracts. Our cost estimation process is based on the professional knowledge of our program managers and finance professionals and draws on their significant experience and judgment. Also, regular and recurring evaluations of contract cost, scheduling and technical matters are performed by management personnel who are independent from the business operations personnel performing work under the contract. 

62

We generally review and reassess our sales, cost and profit estimates for each significant contract at least annually or more frequently as determined by the occurrence of events, changes in circumstances and evaluations of contract performance to reflect the latest reliable information available. When changes in estimates of contract sales or costs occur, we make revisions to EACs and reflect changes in the results of operations as a change in accounting estimate in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known by management. Since contract costs are typically incurred over a period of several years, estimation of these costs requires the use of judgment. Factors considered in estimating the cost of the work to be completed include the availability, productivity and cost of labor, the nature and complexity of work to be performed, the effect of change orders, availability and cost of materials, the effect of any delays in performance and the level of indirect cost allocations. Provisions for estimated losses at completion, if any, are recognized in the period in which the loss becomes evident. The provision includes estimated costs in excess of estimated revenue and any profit margin previously recognized. There were no significant adjustments to income before taxes related to changes in the provision for estimated losses in the twelve months ended April 1, 2016, April 3, 2015 or March 28, 2014.

Amounts billed and collected but not yet earned as revenues under certain types of contracts are deferred. Contract costs incurred for U.S. federal government contracts, including indirect costs, are subject to audit and adjustment through negotiations between government representatives and us. Further, as contracts are performed, change orders can be a regular occurrence and may be unpriced until negotiated with the customer. Un-priced change orders are included in estimated contract sales when they are probable of recovery in an amount at least equal to the cost. Amounts representing claims (including change orders unapproved as to both scope and price) and requests for equitable adjustment are included in estimated contract revenues when they are reliably estimable and realization is probable.

Our U.S. federal government contracts generally contain FAR provisions that enable the customer to terminate a contract for default, or for the convenience of the government. If a contract is terminated for default, we may not be entitled to recover any of our costs on partially completed work and may be liable to the government for re-procurement costs of acquiring similar products or services from another contractor, and for certain other damages. Termination of a contract for the convenience of the government may occur when the government concludes it is in the best interests of the government that the contract be terminated. Under a termination for convenience, the contractor is typically entitled to be paid in accordance with the contract’s terms for costs incurred prior to the effective date of termination, plus a reasonable profit and settlement expenses. At April 1, 2016, April 3, 2015, and March 28, 2014, we did not have any federal contract terminations in process that would have a material effect on our combined financial position, annual results of operations or cash flows.

Software sales

We enter into contracts for the development of highly-customized software that may include post-contract customer support and other software-related services. These arrangements are accounted for under contract accounting, and vendor-specific objective evidence (“VSOE”) of fair value is required to allocate and recognize revenue for each element. VSOE of fair value is determined based on the price charged where each deliverable is sold separately. In situations where VSOE of fair value exists for all undelivered elements, but not a delivered element (typically the software), the residual method is used to allocate revenue to the undelivered elements equal to their VSOE value with the remainder allocated to the delivered element. When VSOE is available for the undelivered elements, software revenue is recognized as the related software customization services are performed in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method described above. In those arrangements where VSOE of fair value does not exist for the undelivered elements, revenue is deferred until only one undelivered element remains and then is recognized ratably as the final element is delivered, beginning with substantial completion and delivery of the highly-customized software.

Capitalization of software development costs

We capitalize certain costs incurred to develop commercial software products to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed after establishing technological feasibility, and we capitalize costs to develop or purchase internal-use software. Significant estimates and assumptions include: determining the appropriate period over which to amortize 

63

the capitalized costs based on estimated useful lives, estimating the marketability of the commercial software products and related future revenues, and assessing the unamortized cost balances for impairment.

For commercial software products, determining the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of future revenues from sales of the products. We consider various factors to project marketability and future revenues, including an assessment of alternative solutions or products, current and historical demand for the product and anticipated changes in technology that may make the product obsolete.

Estimates used to determine income tax expense

We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which principally arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes. We also must analyze income tax reserves, as well as determine the likelihood of recoverability of deferred tax assets, and adjust any valuation allowances accordingly. Considerations with respect to the recoverability of deferred tax assets include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction to which the tax asset relates. The calculation of our tax liabilities also involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize unrecognized tax benefits in the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements when it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained under examination.

Assumptions related to purchase accounting and goodwill

When we acquire a controlling financial interest through a business combination, we use the acquisition method of accounting to allocate the purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which are recorded at fair value. Any excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill.

Acquisition-related costs are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements from the acquisition date.

We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as of the first day of the second fiscal quarter, at each of our reporting units, and between annual tests if circumstances change, or if an event occurs that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining whether an event indicating impairment has occurred between annual testing dates. Such indicators include, among other things, a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the disposal of a significant component of a reporting unit; and the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit. The results of our annual goodwill impairment test for fiscal years 2016 and 2015 indicated that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit significantly exceeded its respective carrying value.

See Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements for information related to our accounting policy related to acquisition accounting and goodwill.

Assumptions to determine retirement benefits costs and liabilities

Prior to the Mergers, effective the first quarter of fiscal 2015, CSRA changed its accounting policy for measurement and recognition of actuarial gains and losses and settlements for its defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans and the calculation of expected return on pension plan assets. Under the new policy, actuarial gains and losses are recognized in earnings at the time of plan remeasurement, typically annually during the fourth quarter, rather than amortized over time. The new accounting policy also requires that CSRA use fair value rather than the market-related value of plan assets. The weighted-average of the expected long-term rates of return, for all pension plans, on plan assets utilized to determine net periodic pension cost for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 

64

2015 were 7.9% and 7.6%, respectively. 

Historically, CSRA estimated the service and interest cost components of pension and other post-retirement benefit plans using a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the period. In the third quarter of fiscal 2016, CSRA changed the way it estimates the costs of the service and interest components through a full yield curve approach by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the net periodic expense to the relevant projected cash flows. The full yield curve approach impacts actuarial gains and losses based upon interest rate expectations, or gains and losses merely resulting from the timing and magnitude of cash outflows associated with our benefit obligations. The individual spot rates are comprised of the rate of return on many high-quality, fixed income corporate bonds of AA rating by one of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. 

 The assumption for the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is selected by taking into account the asset mix of the plan, forward looking asset class returns (adjusted for inflation and real returns) and other factors such as changes in market expectations. CSRA and advisors carefully analyze the risks and returns associated with various investment classes as plan assets are invested. As a result of the foregoing considerations, the expected return on asset assumption for net periodic pension and postretirement costs increased from 7.6% to 7.9% on a year-over-year basis. 

See Note 17 — Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans for additional information related to management’s determination and use of actuarial assumptions and our approach used to compute interest and service costs.

Assumptions and estimates used to analyze contingencies and litigation

We are subject to various claims and contingencies associated with lawsuits, insurance, tax and other issues arising in the normal course of business. The Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements reflect the treatment of claims and contingencies based on management’s view of the expected outcome. We consult with legal counsel on issues related to litigation and seek input from other experts and advisors with respect to matters in the ordinary course of business. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome is probable and the amount is estimable, we accrue a liability in accordance with ASC 450 “Contingencies.” Significant changes in the estimates or assumptions used in assessing the likelihood of an adverse outcome could have a material effect on the consolidated financial results.

New Accounting Standards 

See Note 1—Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our accompanying audited Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements for information related to our adoption of new accounting standards in fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014 for information on our anticipated adoption of recently issued accounting standards.

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Financial Market Risk