PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

Mattel, Inc. (“Mattel”) designs, manufactures, and markets a broad variety of toy products worldwide through sales to its customers and directly to consumers. Mattel’s vision is to provide “the world’s premier toy brands—today and tomorrow.” Management has set six key company strategies: (i) improve execution of the existing toy business; (ii) globalize the brands; (iii) extend the brands into new areas; (iv) catch new trends, create new brands, and enter new categories; (v) develop people; and (vi) improve productivity, simplify processes, and maintain customer service levels.  

Mattel believes its products are among the most widely recognized toy products in the world. Mattel’s portfolio of brands and products are grouped in the following categories:  

Mattel Girls & Boys Brands—including Barbie® fashion dolls and accessories (“Barbie®”), Polly Pocket®, Little Mommy®, Disney Classics, Pixel Chix®, and High School Musical (collectively “Other Girls Brands”), Hot Wheels®, Matchbox®, and Tyco® R/C vehicles and playsets (collectively “Wheels”), and CARS™, Radica® products, and games and puzzles (collectively “Entertainment”).  

Fisher-Price Brands—including Fisher-Price®, Little People®, BabyGear™, and View-Master® (collectively “Core Fisher-Price®”), Sesame Street®, Dora the Explorer™, Winnie the Pooh, Go-Diego-Go!™, and See ‘N Say® (collectively “Fisher-Price® Friends”), and Power Wheels®.  

American Girl Brands—including Just Like You®, the historical collection and Bitty Baby®. American Girl Brands products are sold directly to consumers, and its children’s publications are also sold to certain retailers.  

Mattel was incorporated in California in 1948 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1968. Its executive offices are located at 333 Continental Blvd., El Segundo, California 90245-5012, telephone number (310) 252-2000.  

Business Segments  

“Mattel” refers to Mattel, Inc. and its subsidiaries as a whole, unless the context requires otherwise. This narrative discussion applies to all segments except where otherwise stated. Mattel’s reportable segments are separately managed business units and are divided on a geographic basis between domestic and international. The Domestic segment is further divided into Mattel Girls & Boys Brands US, Fisher-Price Brands US, and American Girl Brands.  

On October 10, 2005, Mattel announced the consolidation of its domestic Mattel Girls & Boys Brands and Fisher-Price Brands divisions into one division. The creation of the “Mattel Brands” division, which resulted in the consolidation of some management and support functions, preserves the natural marketing and design groups that are empowered to create and market toys based on gender and age groups and is expected to more effectively and efficiently leverage Mattel’s scale. These changes are consistent with Mattel’s ongoing goals to enhance innovation and improve execution. In connection with this consolidation, Mattel executed an initiative in 2006 to streamline its workforce, primarily in El Segundo, California. The consolidation of these divisions did not change Mattel’s operating segments.  

For additional information on Mattel’s operating segment reporting, including revenues, segment income, and assets, see Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations—Operating Segment Results” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.” For additional information regarding geographic areas, see Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.” For a discussion of the risks inherent in the   

3  

 foreign operations of Mattel, which affect each segment, see Item 1A “Risk Factors—Factors That May Affect Future Results.”  

Domestic Segment  

The Domestic segment develops toys that it markets and sells through the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands US, Fisher-Price Brands US, and American Girl Brands segments.  

In the Mattel Girls & Boys Brands US segment, Barbie® includes brands such as Barbie® fashion dolls and accessories and Barbie® Collector, and Polly Pocket®, Pixel Chix®, Little Mommy®, High School Musical, and Disney Classics are included within Other Girls Brands. Wheels is comprised of Hot Wheels®, Matchbox®, and Tyco® R/C vehicles and playsets. Entertainment includes CARS™ and Radica® products, as well as games and puzzles.  

In 2008, Mattel expects to introduce new products, including continuing to leverage content within its core brands. For Mattel Girls Brands, new product introductions include full-length animated launches of Barbie®: Mariposa™ in spring 2008, and Barbie and the Diamond Castle™ and Barbie® in a Christmas Carol in fall 2008. Polly Pocket® will be expanding its products in 2008 with Polly™ Pop ’N Swap™ products. New Wheels products will include innovative Trick Tracks sets for Hot Wheels®, and Power Scouts powered toys for Matchbox®. Mattel will introduce new products for Entertainment properties such as Warner Bros. Pictures’ upcoming Batman™: The Dark Knight and Speed Racer movies, and DreamWorks Animation’s movie, Kung Fu Panda™. Mattel will also expand on the success of its Disney Pixar CARS™ products. New games and puzzles products will include Scene It?™ Seinfeld, Apples to Apples® game properties, and the expansion of Radica®’s 20Q™ , Girl Tech®, and U.B.FUNKEYS™ products.  

The Fisher-Price Brands US segment includes Fisher-Price®, Little People®, BabyGear™, View-Master®, Sesame Street®, Dora the Explorer™, Go-Diego-Go!™, Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, Winnie the Pooh, My Friends Tigger & Pooh, Handy Manny, See ‘N Say®, and Power Wheels®. New product introductions for 2008 are expected to include Smart Bounce & Spin Pony™, Little People® Learn About Town™, GeoAir™ High Flyin’ Airport™, Kid-Tough® DVD Player, Power Wheels® A.T. Rex™, Elmo Live, Dora Designer Dollhouse, Dora Prance & Fly Pegasus™ , Handy Manny 2-in-1 Transforming Tool Truck, Go-Diego-Go!™ Dinosaur Rescue Mountain, and the Mickey Motors Raceway.  

The American Girl Brands segment is a direct marketer, children’s publisher, and retailer best known for its flagship line of historical dolls, books, and accessories, as well as the Just Like You® and Bitty Baby® brands. American Girl Brands also publishes best-selling Advice & Activity books and the award-winning American Girl® magazine. In January 2008, American Girl® introduced Mia™, the newest Girl of the Year® doll. In addition, American Girl®, along with HBO Films and Picturehouse, is releasing its first feature film, Kit Kittredge®: An American Girl® based on one of the most popular historical characters. New product introductions for 2008 are expected to include six new Bitty Twins® dolls. American Girl Brands products are sold only in the US and Canada.  

International Segment  

Products marketed by the International segment are generally the same as those developed and marketed by the Domestic segment, with the exception of American Girl Brands, although some are developed or adapted for particular international markets. Mattel’s products are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence.  

4  

Mattel’s International segment revenue represented 49% of worldwide consolidated gross sales in 2007. Within the International segment, Mattel operates in four regions that generated the following gross sales during 2007:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

No individual country within the International segment exceeded 7% of worldwide consolidated gross sales during 2007.  

The strength of the US dollar relative to other currencies can significantly affect the revenues and profitability of Mattel’s international operations. Mattel enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory, and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies, to limit the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on its results of operations and cash flows. See Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Financial Instruments.” For financial information by geographic area, see Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”  

Manufacturing and Materials  

Mattel manufactures toy products for all segments in both company-owned facilities and through third-party manufacturers. Products are also purchased from unrelated entities that design, develop, and manufacture those products. To provide greater flexibility in the manufacture and delivery of its products, and as part of a continuing effort to reduce manufacturing costs, Mattel has concentrated production of most of its core products in company-owned facilities and generally uses third-party manufacturers for the production of non-core products.  

Mattel’s principal manufacturing facilities are located in China, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, and Mexico. Mattel also utilizes third-party manufacturers to manufacture its products in the US, Mexico, Brazil, Asia (including China and India), New Zealand, and Australia. To help avoid disruption of its product supply due to political instability, civil unrest, economic instability, changes in government policies, and other risks, Mattel produces many of its key products in more than one facility. Mattel believes that the existing production capacity at its own and its third-party manufacturers’ facilities is sufficient to handle expected volume in the foreseeable future. See Item 1A “Risk Factors—Factors That May Affect Future Results.”  

Mattel bases its production schedules for toy products on customer orders and forecasts, taking into account historical trends, results of market research, and current market information. Actual shipments of products ordered and order cancellation rates are affected by consumer acceptance of product lines, strength of competing products, marketing strategies of retailers, changes in buying patterns of both retailers and consumers, and overall economic conditions. Unexpected changes in these factors could result in a lack of product availability or excess inventory in a particular product line.  

The foreign countries in which most of Mattel’s products are manufactured (principally China, Indonesia, Thailand, Malaysia, and Mexico) all enjoy permanent “normal trade relations” (“NTR”) status under US tariff laws, which provides a favorable category of US import duties. China’s NTR status became permanent in 2002,   

5  

 following enactment of a bill authorizing such status upon the country’s accession to the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), which occurred in 2001. Membership in the WTO substantially reduces the possibility of China losing its NTR status, which would result in increased costs for Mattel and others in the toy industry.  

All US duties on toys were completely eliminated upon implementation of the Uruguay Round WTO agreement in 1995. The European Union, Japan, and Canada eliminated their tariffs on most toy categories through staged reductions that were completed by January 1, 2004. The primary toy tariffs still maintained by these countries are European Union and Japanese tariffs on dolls of 4.7% and 3.9%, respectively, and a Canadian tariff of 8.0% on children’s wheeled vehicles.  

The majority of Mattel’s raw materials is available from numerous suppliers but may be subject to fluctuations in price.  

Competition and Industry Background  

Competition in the manufacture, marketing, and sale of toys is based primarily on quality, play value, and price. Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that includes, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, girls’ toys, boys’ toys, youth electronics, hand-held and other games, puzzles, educational toys, media-driven products, and fashion-related toys. The Mattel Girls & Boys Brands US and Fisher-Price Brands US segments compete with several large toy companies, including Bandai, Hasbro, Jakks Pacific, Leap Frog, Lego, MGA Entertainment, and VTech, many smaller toy companies, and several manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. American Girl Brands competes with companies that manufacture girls’ toys and with children’s book publishers and retailers. Mattel’s International segment competes with global toy companies including Bandai, Hasbro, Lego, Tomy, and MGA Entertainment, and other national and regional toy companies and manufacturers of video games and consumer electronics. Foreign regions may include competitors that are strong in a particular toy line or geographical area, but do not compete with Mattel and other international toy companies worldwide.  

Competition among the above companies is intensifying due to recent trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products, the phenomenon of children outgrowing toys at younger ages, and an increasing use of high technology in toys. In addition, a small number of retailers account for an increasingly larger portion of all toy sales, control the shelf space from which toys are viewed, and have direct contact with parents and children through in-store purchases, coupons, and print advertisements. Such retailers can and do promote their own private-label toys, facilitate the sale of competitors’ toys, and allocate shelf space to one type of toys over another.  

Seasonality  

Mattel’s business is highly seasonal, with consumers making a large percentage of all toy purchases during the traditional holiday season. A significant portion of Mattel’s customers’ purchasing occurs in the third and fourth quarters of Mattel’s fiscal year in anticipation of such holiday buying. These seasonal purchasing patterns and requisite production lead times cause risk to Mattel’s business associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that do not match consumer demand. Retailers are also attempting to manage their inventories more tightly in recent years, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. These factors increase the risk that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times, or that Mattel’s own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed. Additionally, as retailers manage their inventories, Mattel experiences cyclical ordering patterns for products and product lines that may cause its sales to vary significantly from period to period.  

In anticipation of retail sales in the traditional holiday season, Mattel significantly increases its production in advance of the peak selling period, resulting in a corresponding build-up of inventory levels in the first three   

6  

 quarters of its fiscal year. Seasonal shipping patterns result in significant peaks in the third and fourth quarters in the respective levels of inventories and accounts receivable, which result in seasonal working capital financing requirements. See “Seasonal Financing.”  

Product Design and Development  

Through its product design and development group, Mattel regularly refreshes, redesigns, and extends existing toy product lines and develops innovative new toy product lines for all segments. Mattel believes its success is dependent on its ability to continue this activity effectively. See Item 1A “Risk Factors—Factors That May Affect Future Results.” Product design and development activities are principally conducted by a group of professional designers and engineers employed by Mattel. During 2007, 2006, and 2005, Mattel spent $189.4 million, $173.5 million, and $182.0 million, respectively, in connection with the design and development of products, exclusive of royalty payments. See Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Supplemental Financial Information.”  

Additionally, independent toy designers and developers bring concepts and products to Mattel and are generally paid a royalty on the net selling price of products licensed to Mattel. These independent toy designers may also create different products for other toy companies.  

Advertising and Marketing  

Mattel supports its product lines with extensive advertising and consumer promotions. Advertising takes place at varying levels throughout the year and peaks during the traditional holiday season. Advertising includes television and radio commercials, and magazine and newspaper advertisements. Promotions include in-store displays, sweepstakes, merchandising materials, and major events focusing on products and tie-ins with various consumer products companies.  

During 2007, 2006, and 2005, Mattel incurred expenses of $708.8 million (11.9% of net sales), $651.0 million (11.5% of net sales), and $629.1 million (12.1% of net sales), respectively, for advertising and promotion.  

Sales  

Mattel’s products are sold throughout the world. Products within the Domestic segment are sold directly to retailers, including discount and free-standing toy stores, chain stores, department stores, other retail outlets and, to a limited extent, wholesalers by Mattel Girls & Boys Brands US and Fisher-Price Brands US. Mattel also operates several small retail outlets, generally near or at its corporate headquarters and distribution centers as a service to its employees and as an outlet for its products. American Girl Brands products are sold directly to consumers and its children’s publications are also sold to certain retailers. Mattel has five retail stores, American Girl Place® in Chicago, Illinois, New York, New York, and Los Angeles, California, and American Girl Boutique and Bistro™ in Atlanta, Georgia, and Dallas, Texas, each of which features children’s products from the American Girl Brands segment. The American Girl Boutique and Bistro™ opened in Atlanta, Georgia in August 2007 and Dallas, Texas in November 2007. American Girl Brands also has a retail outlet in Oshkosh, Wisconsin that serves as an outlet for excess product. Products within the International segment are sold directly to retailers and wholesalers in most European, Latin American, and Asian countries, and in Australia, Canada, and New Zealand, and through agents and distributors in those countries where Mattel has no direct presence. Mattel also has retail outlets in Latin America and Europe as an outlet for its products. Additionally, Mattel sells certain of its products online through its website.  

During 2007, Mattel’s three largest customers (Wal-Mart at $1.1 billion, Toys “R” Us at $0.7 billion, and Target at $0.6 billion) accounted for approximately 41% of worldwide consolidated net sales in the aggregate.   

7  

 Within countries in the International segment, there is also a concentration of sales to certain large customers that do not operate in the US. The customers and the degree of concentration vary depending upon the region or nation. See Item 1A “Risk Factors—Factors That May Affect Future Results” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Segment Information.”  

Licenses and Distribution Agreements  

Mattel has license agreements with third parties that permit Mattel to utilize the trademark, characters, or inventions of the licensor in products that Mattel sells. A number of these licenses relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations.  

Mattel has entered into agreements to license entertainment properties from, among others, Disney Enterprises, Inc. (including Disney characters such as Disney Princesses, CARS™ from Pixar, High School Musical, Winnie the Pooh, and all Disney films and television properties for use in Mattel’s DVD board games, such as Scene It?™, sold in North America), Viacom International, Inc. relating to its Nickelodeon properties (including Dora the Explorer™, Go-Diego-Go!™, and SpongeBob SquarePants™), Warner Bros. Consumer Products (including Batman™, Superman™, Justice League™, and Speed Racer), and Sesame Workshop (relating to its Sesame Street® properties including Elmo).  

Royalty expense during 2007, 2006, and 2005 was $243.3 million, $261.2 million, and $225.6 million, respectively. See “Product Design and Development” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Mattel also licenses a number of its trademarks, characters, and other property rights to others for use in connection with the sale of non-toy products that do not compete with Mattel’s products. Mattel distributes some third-party finished products that are independently designed and manufactured.  

Trademarks, Copyrights and Patents  

Most of Mattel’s products are sold under trademarks, trade names, and copyrights, and a number of those products incorporate patented devices or designs. Trade names and trademarks are significant assets of Mattel in that they provide product recognition and acceptance worldwide.  

Mattel customarily seeks patent, trademark, or copyright protection covering its products, and it owns or has applications pending for US and foreign patents covering many of its products. A number of these trademarks and copyrights relate to product lines that are significant to Mattel’s business and operations. Mattel believes its rights to these properties are adequately protected, but there can be no assurance that its rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged.  

Commitments  

In the normal course of business, Mattel enters into contractual arrangements for future purchases of goods and services to ensure availability and timely delivery, and to obtain and protect Mattel’s right to create and market certain products. Certain of these commitments routinely contain provisions for guaranteed or minimum expenditures during the term of the contracts. Current and future commitments for guaranteed payments reflect Mattel’s focus on expanding its product lines through alliances with businesses in other industries.  

As of December 31, 2007, Mattel had outstanding commitments for purchases of inventory, other assets and services totaling $321.8 million in fiscal year 2008. Licensing and similar agreements with terms extending through 2011 contain provisions for future guaranteed minimum payments aggregating approximately $123.0 million. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of   

8  

 Operations—Commitments” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Backlog  

Mattel ships products in accordance with delivery schedules specified by its customers, which usually request delivery within three months. In the toy industry, orders are subject to cancellation or change at any time prior to shipment. In recent years, a trend toward just-in-time inventory practices in the toy industry has resulted in fewer advance orders and therefore less backlog of orders. Mattel believes that the amount of backlog orders at any given time may not accurately indicate future sales.  

Financial Instruments  

Currency exchange rate fluctuations may impact Mattel’s results of operations and cash flows. Mattel seeks to mitigate its exposure to market risk by monitoring its foreign currency transaction exposure for the year and partially hedging such exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts primarily to hedge its purchase and sale of inventory, and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts generally have maturity dates of up to 18 months. In addition, Mattel manages its exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations through the selection of currencies used for international borrowings. Mattel does not trade in financial instruments for speculative purposes.  

For additional information regarding foreign currency contracts, see “International Segment” above, Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Financial Instruments.”  

Seasonal Financing  

Mattel maintains and periodically amends or replaces a $1.3 billion domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility with a commercial bank group that is used as the primary source of financing for the seasonal working capital requirements of its domestic subsidiaries. The agreement in effect expires on March 23, 2010 and interest is charged at various rates selected by Mattel, ranging from market commercial paper rates to the bank reference rate. The credit facility contains a variety of covenants, including financial covenants that require Mattel to maintain certain consolidated debt-to-capital and interest coverage ratios. Specifically, Mattel is required to meet these financial covenant ratios at the end of each fiscal quarter and fiscal year, using the formulae specified in the credit agreement to calculate the ratios. Mattel was in compliance with such covenants at the end of each fiscal quarter and fiscal year in 2007. As of December 31, 2007, Mattel’s consolidated debt-to-capital ratio, as calculated per the terms of the credit agreement, was 0.35 to 1 (compared to a maximum allowed of 0.50 to 1) and Mattel’s interest coverage ratio was 13.33 to 1 (compared to a minimum allowed of 3.50 to 1).  

The domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility is a material agreement and failure to comply with the financial covenant ratios may result in an event of default under the terms of the facility. If Mattel defaulted under the terms of the domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility, its ability to meet its seasonal financing requirements could be adversely affected.  

In December 2005, Mattel, Mattel Asia Pacific Sourcing Limited (“MAPS”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mattel, Bank of America, N.A., as a lender and administrative agent, and other financial institutions executed a credit agreement (“the MAPS facility”) which provided for (i) a term loan facility of $225.0 million consisting of a term loan advanced to MAPS in the original principal amount of $225.0 million, with $50.0 million of such amount to be repaid on each of December 15, 2006 and December 15, 2007, and the remaining aggregate principal amount of $125.0 million to be repaid on December 9, 2008, and (ii) a revolving loan facility consisting of revolving loans advanced to MAPS in the maximum aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding of   

9  

 $100.0 million, with a maturity date of December 9, 2008. Interest was charged at various rates selected by Mattel based on Eurodollar rates or bank reference rates. On December 15, 2006, in addition to the required payment of $50.0 million, MAPS prepaid an incremental $125.0 million of the MAPS term loan facility. The remaining $50.0 million principal amount, consisting of $14.3 million due on December 15, 2007 and $35.7 million due on December 9, 2008, was prepaid on January 16, 2007. As a result of such pre-payments, the MAPS term loan facility terminated in accordance with its terms, but the MAPS revolving loan facility remained in effect. On March 26, 2007, Mattel terminated the MAPS revolving loan facility. Mattel did not incur any early termination penalties in connection with the termination of the MAPS revolving loan facility.  

To finance seasonal working capital requirements of certain foreign subsidiaries, Mattel obtains individual short-term credit lines with a number of banks. As of December 31, 2007, foreign credit lines totaled approximately $200 million, a portion of which are used to support letters of credit. Mattel expects to extend the majority of these credit lines throughout 2008.  

In June 2006, Mattel issued $100.0 million of unsecured floating rate senior notes (“Floating Rate Senior Notes”) due June 15, 2009 and $200.0 million of unsecured 6.125% senior notes (“6.125% Senior Notes”) due June 15, 2011 (collectively “Senior Notes”). Interest on the Floating Rate Senior Notes is based on the three-month US dollar London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 40 basis points with interest payable quarterly beginning September 15, 2006. Interest on the 6.125% Senior Notes is payable semi-annually beginning December 15, 2006. The 6.125% Senior Notes may be redeemed at any time at the option of Mattel at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued interest to the redemption date, or (ii) a “make whole” amount based on the yield of a comparable US Treasury security plus 20 basis points.  

In June 2006, Mattel entered into two interest rate swap agreements on the $100.0 million Floating Rate Senior Notes, each with a notional amount of $50.0 million, for the purpose of hedging the variability of cash flows in the interest payments due to fluctuations of the LIBOR benchmark interest rate. These cash flow hedges are accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, whereby the hedges are reported in Mattel’s consolidated balance sheets at fair value, with changes in the fair value of the hedges reflected in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Under the terms of the agreements, Mattel receives quarterly interest payments from the swap counterparties based on the three-month LIBOR plus 40 basis points and makes semi-annual interest payments to the swap counterparties based on a fixed rate of 5.87125%. The three-month LIBOR used to determine interest payments under the interest rate swap agreements resets every three months, matching the variable interest on the Floating Rate Senior Notes. The agreements expire in June 2009, which corresponds with the maturity of the Floating Rate Senior Notes.  

In September 2007, a major credit rating agency reaffirmed Mattel’s long-term credit rating at BBB-, but changed the outlook from positive to stable. In August 2007, another major credit rating agency maintained its long-term credit rating at BBB, but changed its outlook to positive. In May 2007, an additional credit rating agency maintained its long-term rating for Mattel at Baa2, but changed its long-term outlook from negative to stable. Management does not expect these actions to have a significant impact on Mattel’s ability to obtain financing or to have a significant negative impact on Mattel’s liquidity or results of operations.  

Mattel believes its cash on hand at the beginning of 2008 and amounts available under its domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility and its foreign credit lines will be adequate to meet its seasonal financing requirements in 2008. As of December 31, 2007, Mattel had available incremental borrowing resources totaling approximately $850 million under its domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility and foreign credit lines.  

Mattel has a $300.0 million domestic receivables sales facility that is a sub-facility of Mattel’s domestic unsecured committed revolving credit facility. The outstanding amount of receivables sold under the domestic   

10  

 receivables facility may not exceed $300.0 million at any given time, and the amount available to be borrowed under the credit facility is reduced to the extent of any such outstanding receivables sold. Under the domestic receivables facility, certain trade receivables are sold to a group of banks, which currently include, among others, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, Citicorp USA, Inc. and Barclays Bank PLC, as co-syndication agents, and Societe Generale and BNP Paribas, as co-documentation agents. Pursuant to the domestic receivables facility, Mattel Sales Corp. and Fisher-Price, Inc. (which are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Mattel) can sell eligible trade receivables from Wal-Mart and Target to Mattel Factoring, Inc. (“Mattel Factoring”), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned, consolidated subsidiary of Mattel. Mattel Factoring is a special purpose entity whose activities are limited to purchasing and selling receivables under this facility. Pursuant to the terms of the domestic receivables facility and simultaneous with each receivables purchase, Mattel Factoring sells those receivables to the bank group. Mattel records the transaction, reflecting cash proceeds and sale of accounts receivable in its consolidated balance sheet, at the time of the sale of the receivables to the bank group.  

Sales of receivables pursuant to the domestic receivables sales facility occur periodically, generally quarterly. The receivables are sold by Mattel Sales Corp. and Fisher-Price, Inc. to Mattel Factoring for a purchase price equal to the nominal amount of the receivables sold. Mattel Factoring then sells such receivables to the bank group at a slight discount, and Mattel acts as a servicer for such receivables. Mattel has designated Mattel Sales Corp. and Fisher-Price, Inc. as sub-servicers, as permitted by the facility. Mattel’s appointment as a servicer is subject to termination events that are customary for such transactions. The domestic receivables sales facility is also subject to conditions to funding, representations and warranties, undertakings and early termination events that are customary for transactions of this nature. Mattel retains a servicing interest in the receivables sold under this facility.  

Until the Master Agreement was terminated on February 9, 2007, Mattel International Holdings B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands (the “Depositor”), Mattel France, a company incorporated in France (“Mattel France”), and Mattel GmbH, a company incorporated in Germany (“Mattel Germany”), each of which is a subsidiary of Mattel, and Societe Generale Bank Nederland N.V. (“SGBN”), were parties to a Master Agreement for the Transfer of Receivables that established a Euro 150 million European trade receivables facility (the “European trade receivables facility”), pursuant to which Mattel France and Mattel Germany sold trade receivables to SGBN. The European trade receivables facility was subject to conditions to funding, representations and warranties, undertakings and early termination events that were customary for transactions of this nature.  

Sales of receivables pursuant to the European trade receivables facility occurred monthly, with the last such sale occurring on January 10, 2007. The receivables were sold by Mattel France and Mattel Germany directly to SGBN for a purchase price equal to the nominal amount of the receivables sold. As a result, no Mattel subsidiary was used as a special purpose entity in connection with these transactions. A portion of the purchase price was funded by SGBN and a portion by a deposit provided by the Depositor. The amount of the deposit was reset on each date on which new receivables were sold. Through the termination date, the deposit in 2007 was, on average, equal to approximately 54% of the aggregate notional amount of sold receivables outstanding during such period.  

As with the domestic receivables facility, each sale of accounts receivable was recorded in Mattel’s consolidated balance sheet at the time of such sale. Under the European trade receivables facility, the outstanding amount of receivables sold could not exceed Euro 60 million from February 1 through July 31 of each year and could not exceed Euro 150 million at all other times.  

Each of Mattel France and Mattel Germany was appointed to service the receivables sold by it to SGBN. No servicing fees were paid by SGBN for such services. The appointment of each of Mattel France and Mattel Germany to act as servicer was subject to termination events that were customary for transactions of this nature.  

11  

Mattel France and Mattel Germany were obligated to pay certain fees to the Depositor in consideration of the Depositor providing the deposit to SGBN. Through the termination date, fees paid in 2007 by Mattel France and Mattel Germany to the Depositor were, on average, approximately 0.1% of the aggregate notional amount of sold receivables outstanding during such period.  

In November 2006, the commitment termination date for the European trade receivables facility was extended until February 28, 2007. However, effective on February 9, 2007, the Depositor, Mattel France and Mattel Germany terminated the European trade receivable facility with SGBN because the Company determined the facility was no longer necessary based on projected international cash flows and seasonal financing needs.  

Government Regulations and Environmental Quality  

Mattel’s toy products sold in the US are subject to the provisions of the Consumer Product Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act, and may also be subject to the requirements of the Flammable Fabrics Act or the Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act, and the regulations promulgated pursuant to such statutes. The Consumer Product Safety Act and the Federal Hazardous Substances Act enable the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”) to exclude from the market consumer products that fail to comply with applicable product safety regulations or otherwise create a substantial risk of injury, as well as articles that contain excessive amounts of a banned hazardous substance. The CPSC may also require the recall, repurchase, replacement, or repair of articles that are banned. Similar laws exist in some states and cities, and in many international markets.  

Mattel maintains a quality control program to ensure compliance with various US federal, state and applicable foreign product safety requirements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that all of Mattel’s products are or will be free from defects or are hazard-free. A product recall could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s results of operations and financial condition, depending on the product affected by the recall and the extent of the recall efforts required. A product recall could also negatively affect Mattel’s reputation and the sales of other Mattel products. See Item 1A “Risk Factors—Factors That May Affect Future Results” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Product Recalls.”  

Mattel’s advertising is subject to the Federal Trade Commission Act, The Children’s Television Act of 1990, the rules and regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission and the Federal Communications Commission, as well as laws of certain countries that regulate advertising and advertising to children. In addition, Mattel’s websites that are directed towards children are subject to The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998. Mattel is subject to various other federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to its business. Mattel believes that it is in substantial compliance with these laws and regulations.  

Mattel’s operations are from time to time the subject of investigations, conferences, discussions, and negotiations with various federal, state and local environmental agencies with respect to the discharge or cleanup of hazardous waste and compliance by those operations with environmental laws and regulations. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Environmental” and Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements—Commitments and Contingencies.”  

Employees  

The total number of persons employed by Mattel and its subsidiaries at any one time varies because of the seasonal nature of its manufacturing operations. At December 31, 2007, Mattel’s total number of employees was approximately 31,000.  

12  

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

The current executive officers of Mattel, all of whom are appointed annually by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, are as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Mr. Eckert has been Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer since May 2000. He was formerly President and Chief Executive Officer of Kraft Foods, Inc., the largest packaged food company in North America, from October 1997 until May 2000. From 1995 to 1997, Mr. Eckert was Group Vice President of Kraft Foods, Inc. From 1993 to 1995, Mr. Eckert was President of the Oscar Mayer foods division of Kraft Foods, Inc. Mr. Eckert worked for Kraft Foods, Inc. for 23 years prior to joining Mattel.  

Ms. Brothers has been Executive Vice President of Mattel and President, American Girl since July 2000. From November 1998 to July 2000, she was Senior Vice President of Operations, Pleasant Company (which merged with and into Mattel on December 31, 2003, followed immediately on January 1, 2004, by an asset transfer to Mattel’s subsidiary American Girl). From January 1997 to November 1998, she was Vice President of the Catalogue Division, Pleasant Company. She joined Pleasant Company in 1995, prior to its acquisition by Mattel in July 1998, as Vice President of Catalogue Marketing.  

Mr. Debrowski has been Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations, since November 2000. From February 1992 until November 2000, he was Senior Vice President-Operations and a director of The Pillsbury Company. From September 1991 until February 1992, he was Vice President of Operations for the Baked Goods Division of The Pillsbury Company. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and Director of Grocery Operations for Kraft U.S.A.  

Mr. Farr has been Chief Financial Officer since February 2000. From September 1996 to February 2000, he was Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller. From June 1993 to September 1996, he served as Vice President, Tax. Prior to that, he served as Senior Director, Tax from August 1992 to June 1993.  

Mr. Friedman has been President, Mattel Brands (which includes Mattel Girls & Boys Brands US and Fisher-Price Brands US) since October 2005. From March 1999 to October 2005, he was President, Fisher-Price Brands. From August 1995 to March 1999, he was President, Tyco Preschool. For more than five years prior to   

13  

 that time, he was President of MCA/Universal Merchandising, Senior Vice President-Sales, Marketing and Design of Just Toys, Vice President and General Manager of Baby Care for Gerber Products, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Lionel Leisure, Inc., and President of Aviva/Hasbro.  

Mr. Kaye has been Senior Vice President, Human Resources since July 1997. From June 1996 to June 1997 he was President, Texas Division of Kaufman and Broad Homes, a home building company. From June 1991 to June 1996, he served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Kaufman and Broad Homes. Prior to that, he worked for two years with the Hay Group, a compensation consulting firm and for 12 years with IBM in various human resources positions.  

Mr. Massingberd has been Senior Vice President, Corporate Responsibility since September 2007. From February 1998 to August 2007, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Mattel’s International divisions in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Asia, and Latin America and from August 1997 to February 1998, he was Vice President, Sales for Mattel Canada. Prior to joining Mattel, Mr. Massingberd spent 18 years with Nestle S.A. and served in various roles, including Vice President, Sales and head of Nestle Canada’s Confectionery division.  

Mr. Normile has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since March 1999. He served as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Secretary from August 1994 to March 1999. From June 1992 to August 1994, he served as Assistant General Counsel. Prior to that, he was associated with the law firms of Latham & Watkins LLP and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.  

Mr. Salop has been Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Treasurer since September 2005. He served as Senior Vice President, Strategic Opportunities from May 2004 through September 2005 and Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning from February 2003 through May 2004. From July 2000 to February 2003 he was Senior Vice President, Finance Europe and from August 1998 through July 2000 he was Vice President, Finance American Girl. Prior to that, he served in various financial roles after joining Mattel in 1990.  

Mr. Stockton has been President, International since November 2007. He served as Executive Vice President, International from February 2003 to November 2007. He served as Executive Vice President, Business Planning and Development from November 2000 until February 2003. From April 1998 until November 2000, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Basic Vegetable Products, the largest manufacturer of vegetable ingredients in the world. For more than 20 years prior to that, he was employed by Kraft Foods, Inc., the largest packaged food company in North America, and was President of Kraft North American Food Service from August 1996 to March 1998.  

Mr. Topham has been Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller since September 2005. He served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer from March 2005 to August 2005 and as Vice President and Treasurer from March 2004 to March 2005. Prior to that, he served as Vice President and Assistant Controller from May 2001 to March 2004. From August 2000 to May 2001, he served as Vice President and Treasurer of Premier Practice Management, Inc. From June 1999 to August 2000, he served as Division Vice President of Dataworks, Inc., a specialized publishing company. Prior to that, he spent eight years with Total Petroleum (North America) Ltd., most recently as Vice President of Human Resources.  

Available Information  

Mattel files its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) with the SEC. The public may read and copy any materials that Mattel files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by   

14  

 calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  

Mattel’s Internet website address is http://www.mattel.com. Mattel makes available on its Internet website, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.  

  Item 1A. Risk Factors.