Item 1A. Risk Factors.  

Factors That May Affect Future Results  

(Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995)  

Certain written and oral statements made or incorporated by reference from time to time by Mattel or its representatives in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other filings or reports filed with the SEC, press releases, conferences, or otherwise, are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and may include, but are not limited to, statements about: sales and inventory levels; brand and customer management programs; increased competition; initiatives to promote revenue growth; globalization initiatives; restructuring and financial realignment plans; special charges and other non-recurring charges; initiatives aimed at anticipated cost savings; new entertainment properties; initiatives to invigorate the Barbie® brand, enhance innovation, improve the execution of the core business, leverage scale, extend brands, catch new trends, create new brands, and enter new categories, develop people, improve productivity, simplify processes and maintain customer service levels; quality control and safety testing; impact of product recalls; reserves for product recalls and other incremental recall-related costs; supply chain operations; import and export licenses; integration of acquired companies and assets; operating efficiencies; capital and investment framework (including statements about free cash flow, seasonal working capital, debt-to-total capital ratios, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, dividends and share repurchases); tax provisions; cost pressures and increases; advertising and promotion spending; profitability; price increases, retail store openings and the impact of recent organizational changes. Mattel is including this Cautionary Statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate, or imply future results, performance, or achievements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “estimate,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “project,” “continue,” “plans,” “aims,” “intends,” “likely,” or other similar words or phrases. Except for historical matters, the matters discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other statements or filings made by Mattel from time-to-time may be forward-looking statements. Management cautions you that forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. In addition to the important factors detailed herein and from time-to-time in other reports filed by Mattel with the SEC, including Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K, the following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from past results or those suggested by any forward-looking statements.  

If Mattel does not successfully satisfy consumer preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products and achieve consumer acceptance of those products, Mattel’s results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Mattel’s business and operating results depend largely upon the appeal of its toy products. Consumer preferences, particularly among end users of Mattel’s products–children–are continuously changing. Significant, sudden shifts in demand are caused by “hit” toys and trends, which are often unpredictable. Mattel offers a diverse range of products for children of all ages and families that includes, among others, toys for infants and preschoolers, girls’ toys, boys’ toys, youth electronics, hand-held and other games, puzzles, educational toys, media-driven products and fashion-related toys. Mattel competes domestically and internationally with a wide   

15  

 range of large and small manufacturers, marketers and sellers of toys, video games, consumer electronics and other play products, as well as retailers, which means that Mattel’s market position is always at risk. Mattel’s ability to maintain its current product sales, and increase its product sales or establish product sales with new, innovative toys, will depend on Mattel’s ability to satisfy play preferences, enhance existing products, develop and introduce new products, and achieve market acceptance of these products. Competition is intensifying due to recent trends towards shorter life cycles for individual toy products, the phenomenon of children outgrowing toys at younger ages and an increasing use of more sophisticated technology in toys. If Mattel does not successfully meet the challenges outlined above in a timely and cost-effective manner, demand for its products could decrease and Mattel’s revenues, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Mattel’s business is susceptible to changes in popular culture, media, fashion, and technology. Misperceptions of trends in popular culture, media and movies, fashion, or technology can negatively affect Mattel’s sales.  

Successful movies and characters in children’s literature affect play preferences, and many toys depend on media-based intellectual property licenses. Media-based licenses can cause a line of toys to gain immediate success among children, parents, or families. Trends in media, movies, and children’s characters change swiftly and contribute to the transience and uncertainty of play preferences. In addition, certain developments in the entertainment industry, including labor strikes, could cause delay or interruption in the release of new movies and television programs and could adversely affect the sales of Mattel’s toys based on such movies and television programs. Mattel responds to such trends and developments by modifying, refreshing, extending, and expanding its product offerings on an annual basis. If Mattel does not accurately anticipate trends in popular culture, movies, media, fashion, or technology, its products may not be accepted by children, parents, or families and Mattel’s revenues, profitability and results of operations may be adversely affected.  

Mattel’s business is seasonal and therefore its operating results will depend, in large part, on sales during the relatively brief traditional holiday season. Improved inventory management by retailers resulting in shorter lead times for production and possible shipping disruptions during peak demand times may affect Mattel’s ability to deliver its products in time to meet retailer demands.  

Mattel’s business is subject to risks associated with the underproduction of popular toys and the overproduction of toys that do not match consumer demand. Sales of toy products at retail are seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from September through December. As a result, Mattel’s operating results will depend, in large part, on sales during the relatively brief traditional holiday season. Retailers are attempting to manage their inventories more tightly, requiring Mattel to ship products closer to the time the retailers expect to sell the products to consumers. This in turn results in shorter lead times for production. Management believes that the increase in “last minute” shopping during the holiday season and the popularity of gift cards (which often result in purchases after the holiday season) may negatively impact customer re-orders during the holiday season. Shipping disruptions limiting the availability of ships or containers in Asia during peak demand times may affect Mattel’s ability to deliver its products in time to meet retailer demand. These factors may decrease sales or increase the risk that Mattel may not be able to meet demand for certain products at peak demand times, or that Mattel’s own inventory levels may be adversely impacted by the need to pre-build products before orders are placed.  

Uncertainty and adverse changes in the general economic conditions of markets in which Mattel participates may negatively affect Mattel’s business.  

Current and future conditions in the economy have an inherent degree of uncertainty. As a result, it is difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole. It is even more difficult to estimate growth or contraction in various parts, sectors and regions of the economy, including the many different markets in which Mattel participates. Because all components of Mattel’s budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the markets it serves and demand for its products, the   

16  

 prevailing economic uncertainties render estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. Adverse changes may occur as a result of soft global or regional economic conditions, rising oil prices, wavering consumer confidence, unemployment, declines in stock markets or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. These changes may negatively affect the sales of Mattel’s products, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, increase the risk of loss on investments, or increase costs associated with manufacturing and distributing products.  

The concentration of Mattel’s business with a small retail customer base that makes no binding long-term commitments means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of its major customers could have a significant impact on Mattel’s business and operating results.  

A small number of customers account for a large share of Mattel’s net sales. In 2007, Mattel’s three largest customers, Wal-Mart, Toys “R” Us and Target, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 41% of net sales, and its ten largest customers, in the aggregate, accounted for approximately 50% of net sales. The concentration of Mattel’s business with a relatively small number of customers may expose Mattel to a material adverse effect if one or more of Mattel’s large customers were to significantly reduce purchases for any reason, favor competitors or new entrants, or increase their direct competition with Mattel by expanding their private-label business. Customers make no binding long-term commitments to Mattel regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering one-time purchase orders. Any customer could reduce its overall purchases of Mattel’s products, reduce the number and variety of Mattel’s products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for Mattel’s products, or otherwise seek to materially change the terms of the business relationship at any time. Any such change could significantly harm Mattel’s business and operating results.  

The production and sale of private-label toys by Mattel’s retail customers may result in lower purchases of Mattel-branded products by those retail customers.  

In recent years, consumer goods companies generally, including those in the toy business, have experienced the phenomenon of retail customers developing their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers. Some retail chains that are customers of Mattel sell private-label toys designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. These toys may be sold at prices lower than comparable toys sold by Mattel, and may result in lower purchases of Mattel-branded products by these retailers. In some cases, retailers who sell these private-label toys are larger than Mattel and may have substantially more resources than Mattel.  

Liquidity problems or bankruptcy of Mattel’s key customers could increase Mattel’s exposure to losses from bad debts and could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Many of Mattel’s key customers are mass-market retailers. The mass-market retail channel in the US has experienced significant shifts in market share among competitors in recent years, causing some large retailers to experience liquidity problems. From 2001 through early 2004, four large customers of Mattel filed for bankruptcy. In addition, Mattel’s sales to customers are typically made on credit without collateral. There is a risk that customers will not pay, or that payment may be delayed, because of bankruptcy or other factors beyond the control of Mattel, which could increase Mattel’s exposure to losses from bad debts. In addition, if these or other customers were to cease doing business as a result of bankruptcy, or significantly reduce the number of stores operated, it could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

17  

A reduction or interruption in the delivery of raw materials, parts and components from its suppliers or a significant increase in the price of supplies could negatively impact the gross profit margins realized by Mattel on the sale of its products or result in lower sales.  

Mattel’s ability to meet customer demand depends, in part, on its ability to obtain timely and adequate delivery of materials, parts and components from its suppliers and internal manufacturing capacity. Mattel has experienced shortages in the past, including raw materials and components. Although Mattel works closely with suppliers to avoid these types of shortages, there can be no assurance that Mattel will not encounter these problems in the future. A reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of one or more supplies, such as fuel and resin (which is an oil-based product) expenses, could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business. Cost increases, whether resulting from shortages of materials or otherwise, including but not limited to rising costs of materials, transportation, services and labor (including but not limited to wages, expenses related to employee health plans and insurance), could impact the profit margins realized by Mattel on the sale of its products. Because of market conditions, timing of pricing decisions and other factors, there can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to offset any of these increased costs by adjusting the prices of its products. Increases in prices of Mattel’s products could result in lower sales.  

Unfavorable resolution of pending and future litigation matters, and disputes, including those arising from recalls, withdrawal, or replacement of Mattel products, could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s financial condition.  

Mattel is involved in a number of litigation matters, including those arising from recalls, withdrawals, or replacements of Mattel products. An unfavorable resolution of pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s financial condition and its operations. Regardless of its outcome, litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of management. There can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, pending litigation. In addition to the pending litigation, future litigation, government proceedings, labor disputes, or environmental matters could lead to increased costs or interruption of Mattel’s normal business operations.  

Product recalls, post-manufacture repairs of Mattel products, product liability claims, absence or cost of insurance, and associated costs could harm Mattel’s reputation, divert resources, reduce sales and increase costs and could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s financial condition.  

Mattel is subject to regulation by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and regulatory authorities in the states of the United States and in other countries. Its products could be subject to recalls and other actions by these authorities. Mattel has experienced, and may in the future experience, issues in products that result in recalls, withdrawals, or post-manufacture repairs or replacements of products. Enhanced testing implemented by Mattel, as well as increased scrutiny by retailers and other parties, may reveal issues in Mattel products that may lead to regulatory actions by these authorities. Individuals have asserted claims, and may in the future assert claims, that they have sustained injuries from Mattel’s products, and Mattel is and may be subject to lawsuits relating to these claims. There is a risk that these claims or liabilities may exceed, or fall outside of the scope of, Mattel’s insurance coverage. Moreover, Mattel may be unable to obtain adequate liability insurance in the future. Any of the issues mentioned above could result in damage to Mattel’s reputation, diversion of development and management resources, reduced sales and increased costs, any of which could harm Mattel’s business.  

Recalls of Mattel products could materially and adversely affect Mattel by increasing costs in excess of current estimates.  

Mattel has recorded, and in the future may record, charges and incremental costs relating to recalls, withdrawals, or replacements of Mattel products, based on its most recent estimates of retailer inventory returns, consumer product replacement costs, associated legal and professional fees, and costs associated with advertising and administration of product recalls. Because these current and expected future charges are based on estimates,   

18  

 they may increase as a result of numerous factors, many of which are beyond Mattel’s control, including the amount of products that may be returned by consumers and retailers, the number and type of legal, regulatory, or legislative proceedings relating to product recalls, withdrawals, or replacements or product safety in the United States and elsewhere that may involve Mattel; and regulatory or judicial orders or decrees in the United States and elsewhere that may require Mattel to take certain actions in connection with product recalls.  

Recalls of Mattel products could result in adverse governmental actions, including new legislation and regulations, that may materially and adversely affect Mattel.  

As a result of product recalls, withdrawals, or replacements Mattel has been the subject of governmental actions, inquiries, and proceedings in several countries. Mattel has incurred expenses to respond and has had adverse effects on its business, including temporary suspension of its ability to import products into various countries and to export certain products from China. Product recalls, withdrawals, or replacements have resulted in increased governmental scrutiny of Mattel products. There can be no assurance that Mattel will not be subjected to future governmental actions and scrutiny that may lead to increased costs or to interruptions or disruptions of its normal business operations. In addition, regulatory agencies and legislatures in various countries, including the United States, have undertaken reviews of product safety, and various proposals for additional, more stringent laws and regulations are under consideration. Current or future laws or regulations may become effective in various jurisdictions in which Mattel currently operates and may increase Mattel’s costs and disrupt its business operations.  

Mattel’s revised safety procedures may materially and adversely affect its relationship with vendors and make it more difficult for Mattel to purchase and deliver products on a timely basis to meet market demands. Future conditions may require Mattel to adopt further changes that may increase its costs and further affect its relationship with vendors.  

Mattel’s revised operating procedures and requirements for vendors, including enhanced testing requirements and standards, impose additional costs on both Mattel and the vendors from which it purchases products. These changes also delay delivery of products. Mattel’s relationship with its existing vendors may be adversely affected as a result of these changes, making Mattel more dependent on a smaller number of vendors. Some vendors may choose not to continue to do business with Mattel or not to accommodate Mattel’s needs to the extent that they have done in the past. Because of the seasonal nature of Mattel’s business and the demands of its customers for deliveries with short lead times, Mattel depends upon the cooperation of its vendors to meet market demand for its products in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that existing and future events will not require Mattel to impose additional requirements on its vendors that may adversely affect its relationship with those vendors and Mattel’s ability to meet market demand in a timely manner.  

Product recalls may harm Mattel’s reputation and acceptance of Mattel’s products by consumers, licensors and Mattel’s retailer customers, which may materially and adversely affect sales and profits. Recalls may also increase competitive pressures from other toy manufacturers.  

Product recalls, withdrawals, or replacements have resulted in coverage critical of Mattel in the press and media. While Mattel believes that it has acted responsibly and in the interests of safety, product recalls, withdrawals, or replacements may harm Mattel’s reputation and the acceptance of its products by consumers, licensors and retailers. Mattel’s ability to enter into licensing agreements for products on competitive terms may be adversely affected, if licensors believe that products sold by Mattel will be less favorably received in the market. Mattel’s retailer customers may be less willing to purchase Mattel products or to provide marketing support for those products, such as shelf space, promotions, and advertising. Reduced acceptance of Mattel’s products would adversely affect its sales and profits. Product recalls, withdrawals, or replacements may also increase the amount of competition that Mattel confronts from other manufacturers. Some competitors may attempt to differentiate themselves from Mattel by claiming that their products are produced in a manner or geographic area that is insulated from the issues that preceded recalls, withdrawals, or replacements of Mattel   

19  

 products. To the extent that competitive manufacturers choose not to implement enhanced safety and testing protocols comparable to those that Mattel has adopted, those competitors could enjoy a cost advantage that will enable them to offer products at lower prices than those charged by Mattel.  

Failure by Mattel to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

The value of Mattel’s business depends to a large degree on its ability to protect its intellectual property and information, including its trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and trade secrets in the US and around the world, as well as its customer, employee and consumer data. Any failure by Mattel to protect its proprietary intellectual property and information, including any successful challenge to Mattel’s ownership of its intellectual property or material infringements of its intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Political developments, including trade relations, and the threat or occurrence of war or terrorist activities could materially impact Mattel, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, retail and financial markets, and general economic conditions.  

Mattel’s business is worldwide in scope, including operations in 43 countries and territories. The deterioration of the political situation in a country in which Mattel has significant sales or operations, or the breakdown of trade relations between the US and a foreign country in which Mattel has significant manufacturing facilities or other operations, could adversely affect Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a change in trade status for China could result in a substantial increase in the import duty of toys manufactured in China and imported into the US. In addition, the occurrence of war or hostilities between countries or threat of terrorist activities, and the responses to and results of these activities, could materially impact Mattel, its personnel and facilities, its customers and suppliers, retail and financial markets, and general economic conditions.  

Disruptions in Mattel’s manufacturing operations due to political instability, civil unrest, SARS, avian flu or other diseases could negatively impact Mattel’s business, financial position and results of operations.  

Mattel owns, operates and manages manufacturing facilities and utilizes third-party manufacturers throughout Asia, primarily in China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. The risk of political instability and civil unrest exists in certain of these countries, which could temporarily or permanently damage Mattel’s manufacturing operations located there. In the past, outbreaks of SARS have been significantly concentrated in Asia, particularly in Hong Kong, and in the Guangdong province of China, where many of Mattel’s manufacturing facilities and third-party manufacturers are located. The design, development and manufacture of Mattel’s products could suffer if a significant number of Mattel’s employees or the employees of its third-party manufacturers or their suppliers contract SARS, avian flu or other communicable diseases, or otherwise are unable to fulfill their responsibilities. Mattel has developed contingency plans designed to help mitigate the impact of disruptions in its manufacturing operations. Mattel’s business, financial position and results of operations could be negatively impacted by a significant disruption to its manufacturing operations or suppliers.  

Earthquakes or other catastrophic events out of our control may damage Mattel’s facilities or those of its contractors and harm Mattel’s results of operations.  

Mattel has significant operations, including its corporate headquarters, near major earthquake faults in Southern California. Southern California has experienced earthquakes, wildfires and other natural disasters in recent years. A catastrophic event where Mattel has important operations, such as an earthquake, tsunami, flood, typhoon, fire or other natural or manmade disaster, could disrupt Mattel’s operations or those of its contractors and impair production or distribution of its products, damage inventory, interrupt critical functions or otherwise affect its business negatively, harming Mattel’s results of operations.  

20  

Significant changes in currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business and results of operations.  

Mattel’s net investment in its foreign subsidiaries and its results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes in currency exchange rates and regulations. Mattel seeks to mitigate the exposure of its results of operations to fluctuations in currency exchange rates by partially hedging this exposure using foreign currency forward exchange contracts. These contracts are primarily used to hedge Mattel’s purchase and sale of inventory, and other intercompany transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Government action may restrict Mattel’s ability to transfer capital across borders and may also impact the fluctuation of currencies in the countries where Mattel conducts business or has invested capital. Significant changes in currency exchange rates, reductions in Mattel’s ability to transfer its capital across borders, and changes in government-fixed currency exchange rates, including the Chinese yuan and Venezuela bolivar, could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business and results of operations.  

Increases in interest rates, reduction of Mattel’s credit ratings or the inability of Mattel to meet the debt covenant coverage requirements in its credit facilities could negatively impact Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations.  

Increases in interest rates, both domestically and internationally, could negatively affect Mattel’s cost of financing both its operations and investments. Any reduction in Mattel’s credit ratings could increase the cost of obtaining financing. Additionally, Mattel’s ability to issue long-term debt and obtain seasonal financing could be adversely affected by factors such as an inability to meet its debt covenant requirements, which include maintaining consolidated debt-to-capital and interest coverage ratios. Mattel’s ability to conduct its operations could be negatively impacted should these or other adverse conditions affect its primary sources of liquidity.  

Mattel’s failure to successfully market or advertise its products could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel’s products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs. Mattel’s ability to sell products is dependent in part upon the success of these programs. If Mattel does not successfully market its products or if media or other advertising or promotional costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Failure to successfully implement new initiatives could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel has announced, and in the future may announce, initiatives to improve the execution of its core business, globalize and extend Mattel’s brands, catch new trends, create new brands, and offer new innovative products, enhance product safety, develop people, improve productivity, simplify processes, maintain customer service levels, as well as new initiatives designed to drive sales growth, manage costs, capitalize on Mattel’s scale advantage and improve its supply chain. These initiatives involve investment of capital and complex decision-making as well as extensive and intensive execution, and the success of these initiatives is not assured. Failure to successfully implement any of these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel depends on key personnel and may not be able to hire, retain and integrate sufficient qualified personnel to maintain and expand its business.  

Mattel’s future success depends partly on the continued contribution of key executives, designers, technical, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. The loss of services of any of Mattel’s key personnel could harm Mattel’s business. Recruiting and retaining skilled personnel is costly and highly competitive. If Mattel fails to retain, hire, train and integrate qualified employees and contractors, Mattel may not be able to maintain and expand its business.  

21  

Mattel is subject to various laws and government regulations, violation of which could subject it to sanctions. In addition, changes in such laws or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in Mattel’s effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact Mattel’s financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel operates in a highly regulated environment in the US and international markets. US federal, state and local governmental entities and foreign governments regulate many aspects of Mattel’s business, including its products and the importation and exportation of its products. These regulations may include accounting standards, taxation requirements (including changes in applicable income tax rates, new tax laws and revised tax law interpretations), trade restrictions, regulations regarding financial matters, environmental regulations, advertising directed toward children, safety and other administrative and regulatory restrictions. While Mattel takes all the steps it believes are necessary to comply with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that Mattel will be in compliance in the future. Failure to comply could result in monetary liabilities and other sanctions which could have a negative impact on Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations.  

In addition, changes in laws or regulations may lead to increased costs, changes in Mattel’s effective tax rate, or the interruption of normal business operations that would negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations.  

Mattel may engage in acquisitions, mergers or dispositions, which may affect the profit, revenues, profit margins, debt-to-capital ratio, capital expenditures or other aspects of Mattel’s business. In addition, Mattel has certain anti-takeover provisions in its by-laws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Mattel without its consent, which may adversely affect Mattel’s stock price.  

Mattel may engage in acquisitions, mergers or dispositions, which may affect the profit, revenues, profit margins, debt-to-capital ratio, capital expenditures, or other aspects of Mattel’s business. There can be no assurance that Mattel will be able to identify suitable acquisition targets or merger partners or that, if identified, it will be able to acquire these targets on acceptable terms or agree to terms with merger partners. There can also be no assurance that Mattel will be successful in integrating any acquired company into its overall operations, or that any such acquired company will operate profitably or will not otherwise adversely impact Mattel’s results of operations. Further, Mattel cannot be certain that key talented individuals at these acquired companies will continue to work for Mattel after the acquisition or that they will continue to develop popular and profitable products or services. In addition, Mattel has certain anti-takeover provisions in its bylaws that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Mattel without its consent, which may adversely affect Mattel’s stock price.  

* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *  

If any of the risks and uncertainties described in the cautionary factors listed above actually occurs, Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The factors listed above are not exhaustive. Other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K include additional factors that could materially and adversely impact Mattel’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, Mattel operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict the impact of all of these factors on Mattel’s business, financial condition or results of operations or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Any or all of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any other public statement made by Mattel or its representatives may turn out to be wrong. Mattel expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new developments or otherwise.  

22  

  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments.  

None.  

  Item 2. Properties.