PART I  

 Item 1. BUSINESS  

Introduction  

Darden Restaurants, Inc. is the world’s largest company-owned and operated full service restaurant company1, and served over 380 million meals in fiscal 2008. As of May 25, 2008, we operated through subsidiaries 1,702 restaurants in the United States and Canada. In the United States, we operated 1,667 restaurants in 49 states (the exception being Alaska), including 651 Red Lobster®, 647 Olive Garden®, 305 LongHorn Steakhouse®, 32 The Capital Grille®, 23 Bahama Breeze®, and seven Seasons 52® restaurants, and two specialty restaurants: Hemenway’s Seafood Grille & Oyster Bar® and The Old Grist Mill Tavern®. In Canada, we operated 35 restaurants, including 29 Red Lobster and six Olive Garden restaurants. Through subsidiaries, we own and operate all of our restaurants in the United States and Canada, except three. Those three restaurants are located in Central Florida and are owned by joint ventures managed by us. The joint ventures pay management fees to us, and we control the joint ventures’ use of our service marks. None of our restaurants in the U.S. or Canada are franchised. Of our 1,702 restaurants open on May 25, 2008, 904 were located on owned sites and 798 were located on leased sites. As of May 25, 2008, we franchised five LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants in Puerto Rico to an unaffiliated franchisee, and 27 Red Lobster restaurants in Japan to an unaffiliated Japanese corporation, under area development and franchise agreements.  

Darden Restaurants, Inc. is a Florida corporation incorporated in March 1995, and is the parent company of GMRI, Inc., also a Florida corporation. GMRI, Inc. and certain other of our subsidiaries own and operate our restaurants. GMRI, Inc. was originally incorporated in March 1968 as Red Lobster Inns of America, Inc. We were acquired by General Mills, Inc. in 1970 and became a separate publicly held company in 1995 when General Mills distributed all of our outstanding stock to the stockholders of General Mills. Our principal executive offices and restaurant support center are located at 5900 Lake Ellenor Drive, Orlando, Florida 32809, telephone (407) 245-4000. Our corporate website address is www.darden.com. We make our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, and Section 16 reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website the same day as the reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information on our website is not deemed to be incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “Darden,” “we”, “our” or “us” include Darden Restaurants, Inc., GMRI, Inc. and our respective subsidiaries.  

We have a 52/53 week fiscal year ending the last Sunday in May. Our 2008 fiscal year ended May 25, 2008, our 2007 fiscal year ended May 27, 2007, and our 2006 fiscal year ended May 28, 2006, and each had 52 weeks.  

The following description of our business should be read in conjunction with the information in our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations incorporated by reference in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  

Background  

We opened our first restaurant, a Red Lobster seafood restaurant, in Lakeland, Florida in 1968. Red Lobster was founded by William B. Darden, for whom we are named. We were acquired by General Mills, Inc. in 1970. In May 1995, we became a separate publicly held company when General Mills distributed all outstanding Darden stock to General Mills’ stockholders.  

Red Lobster has grown from six restaurants in operation at the end of fiscal 1970 to 680 restaurants in North America by the end of fiscal 2008. Olive Garden, an internally developed Italian restaurant concept, opened  

  1  Source: Nation’s Restaurant News, “Special Report: Top 100,” June 30, 2008 (based on U.S. revenues from company-owned restaurants).  

1  

Table of Contents 

 its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida in fiscal 1983, and by the end of fiscal 2008 had expanded to 653 restaurants in North America. The number of Red Lobster and Olive Garden restaurants open at the end of fiscal 2008 remained the same and increased by 39, respectively, as compared to the end of fiscal 2007.  

Bahama Breeze is an internally developed concept that provides a Caribbean escape, offering the food, drinks and atmosphere you would find in the islands. In fiscal 1996, Bahama Breeze opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida. At the end of fiscal 2008, there were 23 Bahama Breeze restaurants.  

Seasons 52 is an internally developed concept that provides a casually sophisticated fresh grill and wine bar with seasonally inspired menus offering fresh ingredients to create great tasting meals that are lower in calories than comparable restaurant meals. Seasons 52 opened its first restaurant in Orlando, Florida in fiscal 2003. At the end of fiscal 2008, there were seven Seasons 52 restaurants.  

On August 16, 2007, we announced that we had entered into an agreement to purchase the common stock of RARE Hospitality International, Inc. (“RARE”) through a tender offer for $38.15 per share in cash, to be followed by a merger in which the remaining RARE shareholders would each receive $38.15 per share in cash, or approximately $1.27 billion in total purchase price. In addition, as a result of the acquisition, we repaid RARE’s 2.5 percent convertible notes for approximately $134.8 million, including $9.8 million related to a conversion premium. RARE owned and operated two principal restaurant concepts, LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille, of which 288 and 29 locations, respectively, were in operation as of the date of the acquisition, which was completed on October 1, 2007. LongHorn Steakhouse, with locations primarily in the Eastern half of the United States, is a leader in the full service dining steakhouse category, and The Capital Grille, with locations in major metropolitan cities in the United States, is a leader in the premium steakhouse category. RARE also had two specialty restaurants, Hemenway’s Seafood Grille & Oyster Bar and The Old Grist Mill Tavern, that were acquired in the merger. The acquired operations are included in our financial statements from the date of the acquisition.  

The following table shows our growth and lists the number of restaurants operated by Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 as of the end of each fiscal year since 1970, and the number of LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurants operated by us at the end of fiscal 2008. The final column in the table lists our total sales for the years indicated.  

Company-Operated Restaurants Open at Fiscal Year End  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

2  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Includes only Red Lobster, Olive Garden, LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 restaurants included in continuing operations. Excludes other restaurant concepts operated by us in these years that are no longer owned by us, and restaurants that were included in discontinued operations.  

 (2) From fiscal 1996 forward, includes only net sales from continuing operations and excludes sales related to all restaurants that were closed and considered discontinued operations. Periods prior to fiscal 1996 include total sales from all of our operations, including sales from restaurant concepts besides Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 that are no longer owned or operated by us. Total company sales from 1970 through fiscal 1995 were included in the consolidated operations of our former parent company, General Mills, Inc., prior to our spin-off as a separate publicly traded corporation in May 1995.  

 (3) Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 00-14 “Accounting for Certain Sales Incentives” (“Issue 00-14”) requires sales incentives to be classified as a reduction of sales. We adopted Issue 00-14 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002. For purposes of this presentation, sales incentives have been reclassified as a reduction of sales for fiscal 1998 through 2008. Sales incentives for fiscal years prior to 1998 have not been reclassified.  

 (4) Includes two specialty restaurants: Hemenway’s Seafood Grille & Oyster Bar and The Old Grist Mill Tavern.  

Strategy  

The restaurant industry is generally considered to be comprised of two segments: quick service and full service. The full service segment is highly fragmented and includes many independent operators and small chains. We believe that capable operators of strong multi-unit concepts have the opportunity to increase their share of the full service segment. We plan to grow by increasing the number of restaurants in each of our existing concepts and by developing or acquiring additional concepts that can be expanded profitably.  

While we are a leader in the full service dining segment, we know we cannot be successful without a clear sense of who we are. Our core purpose is “To nourish and delight everyone we serve.” This core purpose is supported by our core values:  

   •    Integrity and fairness;  

   •    Respect and caring;  

   •    Diversity;  

   •    Always learning/always teaching;  

   •    Being “of service;”  

   •    Teamwork; and  

   •    Excellence.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Our mission is to be “The best in full service dining, now and for generations.” We believe we can achieve this goal by continuing to build on our strategy to be a multi-brand full service restaurant growth company, which is grounded in our commitment to combining:  

   •    Competitively superior leadership;  

   •    Strong brand building that reflects brand management and restaurant operating excellence; and  

   •    Brand support excellence.  

Our strategic framework also includes two points that we believe separate us from our competition. We are committed to:  

   •    Being a multi-brand restaurant company that is bound together by common operating practices and a unifying culture which serves to make us stronger than the sum of our parts; and  

   •    Obtaining insights from our guests and employees to create powerful, broadly appealing brands and to develop successful people.  

Restaurant Concepts  

Red Lobster  

Red Lobster is the largest full service dining, seafood specialty restaurant operator in the United States. It offers an extensive menu featuring fresh fish, shrimp, crab, lobster, scallops and other seafood in a casual atmosphere. The menu includes a variety of specialty seafood and non-seafood entrées, appetizers and desserts.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $9.75 to $35.50, with certain lobster items available by the pound and seasonal/regional fresh fish selections available on a daily fresh fish menu. Most lunch menu entrée prices range from $6.25 to $13.99. The price of most entrées includes salad, side items and our signature Cheddar Bay biscuits. During fiscal 2008, the average check per person ranged from $18.00 to $19.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for approximately 7.6 percent of Red Lobster’s sales. Red Lobster maintains different lunch and dinner menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as a lower-priced children’s menu.  

Olive Garden  

Olive Garden is the largest full service dining Italian restaurant operator in the United States. Olive Garden’s menu includes a variety of authentic Italian foods featuring fresh ingredients and a wine list that includes a broad selection of wines imported from Italy. The menu includes antipasti (appetizers); soups, salad and garlic breadsticks; baked pastas; sautéed specialties with chicken, seafood and fresh vegetables; grilled meats; and a variety of desserts. Olive Garden also uses coffee imported from Italy for its espresso and cappuccino.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $8.75 to $19.95, and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $5.95 to $11.95. The price of each entrée also includes as much fresh salad or soup and breadsticks as a guest desires. During fiscal 2008, the average check per person ranged from $14.75 to $15.75, with alcoholic beverages accounting for approximately 8.0 percent of Olive Garden’s sales. Olive Garden maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic difference in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as children’s menus.  

LongHorn Steakhouse  

Acquired by Darden in October 2007 as part of the RARE acquisition, LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants are full service establishments serving both lunch and dinner in an attractive and inviting atmosphere reminiscent of the classic American West. With locations in 28 states, primarily in the Eastern half of the United States, LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants feature a variety of top quality menu items including signature fresh steaks, as well as salmon, shrimp, chicken, ribs, pork chops, burgers and prime rib.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $12.00 to $20.00, and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $8.00 to $12.00. The price of each entrée also includes as much freshly baked bread as a guest desires. During   

4  

Table of Contents 

 fiscal 2008, the average check per person ranged from $17.00 to $18.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for approximately 9.8 percent of LongHorn Steakhouse’s sales. LongHorn Steakhouse maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as one children’s menu.  

The Capital Grille  

Acquired by Darden in October 2007, The Capital Grille has locations in major metropolitan cities in the United States and features relaxed elegance and style. Nationally acclaimed for dry aging steaks on the premises, The Capital Grille is also known for fresh seafood flown in daily and culinary specials created by its chefs. The restaurants feature an award-winning wine list offering over 300 selections, personalized service, comfortable club-like atmosphere and premiere private dining rooms.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices range from $23.00 to $55.00 and most lunch menu entrée prices range from $8.00 to $36.00. During fiscal 2008, the average check per person ranged from $68.50 to $75.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for approximately 33.3 percent of The Capital Grille’s sales. The Capital Grille maintains different menus and for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections.  

Bahama Breeze  

Bahama Breeze restaurants bring guests the feeling of a Caribbean escape, offering food, drinks and atmosphere you would find in the islands. The menu features distinctive, Caribbean-inspired fresh seafood, chicken and steaks as well as signature specialty drinks. The first Bahama Breeze opened in 1996 and met with strong positive consumer response. We continued to test the concept by opening a limited number of additional restaurants in each of the following years, and began national expansion of the concept in 1998. While the concept continued to be well received by guests, its financial performance did not meet our overall expectations, and in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 Bahama Breeze closed six restaurants and wrote down the carrying value of four others. This action reduced the total number of restaurants in operation to 32, and all new restaurant expansion was postponed.  

Since fiscal 2004, Bahama Breeze has implemented changes to become a more relevant brand for its guests, evolve its menu to make it more approachable yet still distinctive and improve the guest experience while lowering its operating costs. In fiscal 2007, Bahama Breeze wrote down the carrying value of five restaurants and closed nine but improved the guest experience and unit economics sufficiently at the remaining restaurants that we are restarting modest unit growth, with two projected new restaurant openings in fiscal 2009. The results of operations of the nine closed restaurants are reported as a component of discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  

Most dinner menu entrée prices at Bahama Breeze range from $9.00 to $23.00, and most lunch entrée prices range from $7.00 to $14.00. During fiscal 2008, the average check per person ranged from $22.00 to $23.00, with alcoholic beverages accounting for approximately 23 to 24 percent of Bahama Breeze’s sales. Bahama Breeze maintains different menus for dinner and lunch and different menus across its trade areas to reflect geographic differences in consumer preferences, prices and selections, as well as two children’s menus.  

Seasons 52  

Seasons 52 is a casually sophisticated fresh grill and wine bar with seasonally inspired menus offering fresh ingredients to create great tasting meals that are lower in calories than comparable restaurant meals. It offers an international wine list of more than 130 wines, with 70 available by the glass. The first Seasons 52 opened in 2003, and currently operates seven existing restaurants with plans to open one new restaurant in fiscal 2009.  

Discontinued Operations  

In fiscal 2007, we announced the closure of 54 Smokey Bones Barbeque & Grill restaurants and two Rocky River Grillhouse restaurants, and our intention to offer for sale the remaining 73 operating Smokey Bones restaurants. Smokey Bones featured barbequed pork, beef and chicken, as well as other grilled favorites, all served   

5  

Table of Contents 

 in a lively yet comfortable mountain-lodge setting that featured televised sports. We opened the first Smokey Bones in September 1999, and began national expansion of the concept in fiscal 2002. The concept was designed to be a nationally advertised brand, but since it was not on a path to achieving that vision, we concluded it was not a meaningful growth vehicle for Darden. From December 2007 through February 2008, we closed the sale of 72 of the Smokey Bones restaurants. The sale of the remaining restaurant was completed in June 2008. Also in fiscal 2007, we closed nine Bahama Breeze restaurants. The results of operations for these restaurants are treated as a component of discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  

Recent and Planned Growth  

On a continuing operations basis, during fiscal 2008, we opened 65 new restaurants (excluding the relocation of existing restaurants to new sites and the rebuilding of restaurants at existing sites). Our actual and projected new openings from continuing operations by concept (excluding relocations and rebuilds) are shown below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Actual openings during the period from October 1, 2007, the effective date of the RARE acquisition, through the end of fiscal 2008.  

The actual number of openings for each of our concepts will depend on many factors, including our ability to locate appropriate sites, negotiate acceptable purchase or lease terms, obtain necessary local governmental permits, complete construction, and recruit and train restaurant management and hourly personnel. Our objective is to continue to expand all of our restaurant concepts, and to develop or acquire additional concepts that can be expanded profitably. We have continued to test new ideas and concepts, and also to evaluate potential acquisition candidates to assess whether they would satisfy our strategic and financial objectives.  

We consider location to be a critical factor in determining a restaurant’s long-term success, and we devote significant effort to the site selection process. Prior to entering a market, we conduct a thorough study to determine the optimal number and placement of restaurants. Our site selection process incorporates a variety of analytical techniques to evaluate key factors. These factors include trade area demographics, such as target population density and household income levels; competitive influences in the trade area; the site’s visibility, accessibility and traffic volume; and proximity to activity centers such as shopping malls, hotel/motel complexes, offices and universities. Members of senior management evaluate, inspect and approve each restaurant site prior to its acquisition. Constructing and opening a new restaurant typically takes approximately 180 days on average after permits are obtained and the site is acquired.  

The following table illustrates the approximate average capital investment, size and dining capacity of the nine Red Lobster restaurants (four new restaurants and five relocations) and 41 Olive Garden restaurants (40 new restaurants and one relocation) that were opened during fiscal 2008, and the 18 LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants (18 new restaurants and no relocations) opened during fiscal 2008 since the acquisition of RARE on October 1, 2007.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (1) Estimated final cost includes net present value of lease obligations and working capital credit, but excludes internal overhead.  

6  

Table of Contents 

 (2) Includes all space under the roof, including the coolers and freezers.  

 (3) Includes bar dining seats and patio seating, but excludes bar stools.  

 (4) Includes patio dining tables.  

We systematically review the performance of our restaurants to ensure that each one meets our standards. When a restaurant falls below minimum standards, we conduct a thorough analysis to determine the causes, and implement marketing and operational plans to improve that restaurant’s performance. If performance does not improve to acceptable levels, the restaurant is evaluated for relocation, closing or conversion to one of our other concepts.  

During fiscal 2008, as discussed in “Discontinued Operations” above, we sold 72 Smokey Bones restaurants along with the one Smokey Bones restaurant that sold in fiscal 2009. During fiscal 2008, we also permanently closed three Red Lobster restaurants, one Olive Garden restaurant, and no Bahama Breeze or Seasons 52 restaurants. Following the acquisition of RARE on October 1, 2007, we permanently closed one LongHorn Steakhouse restaurant and no The Capital Grille restaurants. We continue to evaluate our site locations in order to minimize the risk of future closures or asset impairment charges.  

Restaurant Operations  

We believe that high-quality restaurant management is critical to our long-term success. Our restaurant management structure varies by concept and restaurant size. We issue detailed operations manuals covering all aspects of restaurant operations, as well as food and beverage manuals which detail the preparation procedures of our recipes. The restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each restaurant and for ensuring compliance with our operating standards.  

Each Red Lobster, Olive Garden, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 restaurant is led by a general manager and three to five additional managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant. Each restaurant also employs approximately 50-185 hourly employees, most of whom work part-time. Restaurant general managers report to multi unit supervisors who may be directors or vice presidents. At the end of fiscal 2008, each multi unit supervisor was responsible for approximately six to 10 restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by all levels of supervision to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards.  

The management staff of a typical LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurant consists of one managing partner, one to four assistant managers and one or two kitchen managers. In addition, each of these restaurants employs approximately 40 to 80 hourly employees. The managing partner of each restaurant reports directly to a multi unit supervisor who may be a regional manager or regional director. Multi unit supervisors have operational responsibility for approximately three to nine restaurants. Regional directors at The Capital Grille also have responsibility for The Old Grist Mill Tavern, and Hemenway’s Seafood Grille & Oyster Bar restaurants. Restaurants are visited regularly by all levels of supervision to help ensure strict adherence to all aspects of our standards.  

Each concept’s head of training, together with senior operations executives, are responsible for developing and maintaining that concept’s operations training programs. These efforts include a 12 to 15-week training program for management trainees and continuing development programs for managers, supervisors and directors. This program has now been expanded to include both LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille personnel as part of the integration of RARE. The emphasis of the training and development programs varies by restaurant concept, but includes leadership, restaurant business management and culinary skills. We also use a highly structured training program to open new restaurants, including deploying training teams experienced in all aspects of restaurant operations. The opening training teams typically begin work one week prior to opening and remain at the new restaurant for up to three weeks after the opening. They are re-deployed as appropriate to enable a smooth transition to the restaurant’s operating staff.  

We maintain performance measurement and incentive compensation programs for our management-level employees. We believe that our leadership position, strong success-oriented culture and various short-term and long-term incentive programs, including stock units, help attract and retain highly motivated restaurant managers. With   

7  

Table of Contents 

 the acquisition of RARE, we also have continued a managing partner program in which qualifying general managers of LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurants receive cash compensation and restricted stock awards based upon individual performance.  

Quality Assurance  

Our Total Quality Department helps ensure that all restaurants provide safe, high-quality food in a clean and safe environment. Through rigorous physical evaluation and testing at our North American laboratories and through “point source inspection” by our international team of Quality Specialists in several foreign countries, we purchase only seafood that meets or exceeds our specifications. We use independent third parties to inspect and evaluate commodity vendors. In addition, any commodity supplier that produces a “high risk” product is subject to a food safety evaluation by Darden personnel at least annually. We require our suppliers to maintain sound manufacturing practices and operate with the comprehensive Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) food safety programs adopted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The HACCP programs focus on preventing hazards that could cause food-borne illnesses by applying scientifically-based controls to analyze hazards, identify and monitor critical control points, and establish corrective actions when monitoring shows that a critical limit has not been met. Since 1976, we have required routine microbiological testing of seafood and other commodities for quality and microbiological safety. In addition, our total quality managers and third party auditors visit each restaurant periodically throughout the year to review food handling and to provide education and training in food safety and sanitation. The total quality managers also serve as a liaison to regulatory agencies on issues relating to food safety. This HACCP program has now been expanded to include both LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille operations as part of the integration of RARE.  

Purchasing and Distribution  

Our ability to ensure a consistent supply of high-quality food and supplies at competitive prices to all of our restaurant concepts depends on reliable sources of procurement. Our purchasing staff sources, negotiates and purchases food and supplies from more than 2,000 suppliers in more than 30 countries. Suppliers must meet strict quality control standards in the development, harvest, catch and production of food products. Competitive bids, long-term contracts and long-term vendor relationships are routinely used to manage availability and cost of products.  

We believe that our seafood purchasing capabilities are a significant competitive advantage. Our purchasing staff travels routinely within the United States and internationally to source more than 100 varieties of top-quality seafood at competitive prices. We believe that we have established excellent long-term relationships with key seafood vendors and usually source our product directly from producers (not brokers or middlemen). We operate procurement offices in Singapore and Toronto, our only purchasing offices outside of Orlando, to source products directly from Asia and Canada. While the supply of certain seafood species is volatile, we believe we have the ability to identify alternative seafood products and to adjust our menus as necessary. All other essential food products are available, or can be made available upon short notice, from alternative qualified suppliers. Because of the relatively rapid turnover of perishable food products, inventories in the restaurants have a modest aggregate dollar value in relation to sales. Controlled inventories of specified products are distributed to restaurants through independent national distribution companies. In addition, through strategic alliances between Darden Direct Distribution, Inc. and these distribution companies, we maintain inventory ownership and dedicated operations in select environments enhancing our supply chain’s competitive advantage.  

Our supplier diversity program is an integral part of our purchasing efforts. Through this program, we identify minority and women-owned vendors and assist them in establishing supplier relationships with us. We are committed to the development and growth of minority and women-owned enterprises, and in fiscal 2008 we spent approximately 9 percent and 3 percent, respectively, of our purchasing dollars with those firms.  

We continue to invest in new technologies to improve our purchasing and restaurant operations. We are in the process of expanding “iKitchen,” a web-based software system, to our regional suppliers. The system is designed to more efficiently handle restaurant product orders, receiving, invoice approval and inventories.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Advertising and Marketing  

We believe we have developed significant marketing and advertising capabilities. Our size enables us to be a leading advertiser in the full service dining segment of the restaurant industry. Red Lobster and Olive Garden leverage the efficiency of national network television advertising and supplement it with local television advertising. LongHorn Steakhouse, The Capital Grille, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 do not use national television advertising. Our restaurants appeal to a broad spectrum of consumers and we use advertising to attract customers. We implement periodic promotions as appropriate to maintain and increase our sales and profits. We also rely on outdoor billboard and direct mail advertising, as well as radio, newspaper and direct mail coupon programs, as appropriate, to attract customers. We have developed and consistently use sophisticated consumer marketing research techniques to monitor customer satisfaction and evolving expectations.  

Employees  

At the end of fiscal 2008, we employed approximately 179,000 persons. Of these employees, approximately 1,550 were corporate or restaurant concept personnel located in our restaurant support center in Orlando, Florida, approximately 50 were corporate personnel located in Atlanta, Georgia, approximately 8,000 were restaurant management personnel in the restaurants or in field offices, and the remainder were hourly restaurant personnel. Of the corporate and restaurant concept personnel located at our restaurant support center in Orlando and Atlanta, approximately 65 percent were management personnel and the balance were administrative or office employees. Our operating executives have an average of more than 11 years of experience with us. The restaurant general managers average nine years with us. We believe that we provide working conditions and compensation that compare favorably with those of our competitors. Most employees, other than restaurant management and corporate management, are paid on an hourly basis. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our employee relations to be good.  

Information Technology  

We strive for leadership in the restaurant business by using technology as a competitive advantage and as an enabler of our strategy. Since 1975, computers located in the restaurants have been used to assist in the management of the restaurants. We have implemented systems targeted at improved financial control, cost management, enhanced guest service and improved employee effectiveness. Management information systems are designed to be used across restaurant concepts, yet are flexible enough to meet the unique needs of each restaurant concept. Several years ago, we implemented a suite of web-enabled and fully integrated financial and human resource (including payroll and benefits) systems. We also implemented a high-speed data network connecting all restaurants to all current and anticipated future applications. During the past year, we completed the implementation of “DASH,” a next generation technology platform for our restaurant point of sale system in Olive Garden, Red Lobster, Bahama Breeze and Seasons 52 restaurants. We expect to deploy the new platform, including new hardware and software, to all LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurants over the next year. In the past year, we completed the implementation of a meal pacing system in Olive Garden and Red Lobster. The new meal pacing system is designed to properly pace the preparation of menu items, based on cook-times, to enhance the guest’s experience and enhance restaurant capacity by increasing table turns. We are also in the process of expanding “iKitchen,” a web-based software system designed to more efficiently handle restaurant product orders and other related matters, to regional suppliers as discussed above under “Purchasing and Distribution.”  

In the past year, we began integrating the LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurant businesses into the Company’s core business processes and applications. We completed the integration and implementation effort for the financial systems and began to deploy several other key applications including human resources systems, “iKitchen,” and “Par Pull,” a web-based software system designed to more efficiently handle food and menu item preparation. We expect to have our human resource applications and “iKitchen” fully deployed in fiscal 2009 in all LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille restaurants and “Par Pull” fully deployed in fiscal 2009 in all LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants.  

Restaurant hardware and software support for all of our restaurant concepts, including the newly integrated LongHorn Steakhouse and The Capital Grille concepts, is provided or coordinated from the restaurant support center in Orlando, Florida, seven days a week, 24 hours a day. A communications network sends and receives critical business data to and from the restaurants throughout the day and night, providing timely and extensive information   

9  

Table of Contents 

 on business activity in every location. The restaurant support center houses our data center, which contains sufficient computing power to process information from all restaurants quickly and efficiently. Our information is processed in a secure environment to protect both the actual data and the physical assets. We guard against business interruption by maintaining a disaster recovery plan, which includes storing critical business information off-site, testing the disaster recovery plan at a host-site facility and providing on-site power backup via a large diesel generator. We use internally developed proprietary software, as well as purchased software, with proven, non-proprietary hardware. This allows processing power to be distributed effectively to each of our restaurants.  

Our management believes that our current systems and practice of implementing regular updates will position us well to support current needs and future growth. We are committed to maintaining an industry leadership position in information systems and computing technology. We use a strategic information systems planning process that involves senior management and is integrated into our overall business planning. Information systems projects are prioritized based upon strategic, financial, regulatory and other business advantage criteria.  

Competition  

The restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to the type and quality of food, price, service, restaurant location, personnel, concept, attractiveness of facilities, and effectiveness of advertising and marketing. The restaurant business is often affected by changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing restaurants; and consumers’ discretionary purchasing power. We compete within each market with national and regional chains and locally-owned restaurants for customers, management and hourly personnel and suitable real estate sites. We also face growing competition from the supermarket industry, which offers “convenient meals” in the form of improved entrées and side dishes from the deli section. We expect intense competition to continue in all of these areas.  

Other factors pertaining to our competitive position in the industry are addressed under the sections entitled “Purchasing and Distribution,” “Advertising and Marketing” and “Information Technology” and in our Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.  

Trademarks, Franchises and Joint Ventures  

We regard our Darden Restaurants®, Red Lobster®, Olive Garden®, LongHorn Steakhouse®, The Capital Grille®, Bahama Breeze®, and Seasons 52® service marks, and other service marks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and as being important to our marketing efforts. Our policy is to pursue registration of our important service marks and trademarks and to oppose vigorously any infringement of them. Generally, with appropriate renewal and use, the registration of our service marks will continue indefinitely.  

All but three of our 1,702 restaurants in operation at May 25, 2008 are Company-owned and operated. Those three restaurants are located in Central Florida and are owned by joint ventures managed by us. The joint ventures pay management fees to us, and we control the joint ventures’ use of our service marks. We have one unaffiliated franchisee with an area development and franchise agreement with the right to operate franchised LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants in Puerto Rico. As of May 25, 2008, this franchisee operated five LongHorn Steakhouse restaurants in Puerto Rico. Our only other restaurant operations outside of North America are conducted through an area development and franchise agreement with an unaffiliated Japanese corporation. This corporation operated 27 Red Lobster restaurants in Japan as of May 25, 2008. We do not have an ownership interest in this corporation, but we receive royalty income under the franchise agreement. The amount of income we derive from these joint venture and franchise arrangements is not material to our consolidated financial statements.  

Seasonality  

Our sales volumes fluctuate seasonally. During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, our average sales per restaurant were highest in the spring and winter, followed by the summer, and lowest in the fall. Holidays, severe weather and similar conditions may impact sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year.  

10  

Table of Contents 

Government Regulation  

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business. Each of our restaurants must comply with licensing requirements and regulations by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, safety and fire agencies in the state or municipality in which the restaurant is located. The development and operation of restaurants depend on selecting and acquiring suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations. To date, we have not been significantly affected by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.  

During fiscal 2008, approximately 9.2 percent of our sales were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Regulations governing their sale require licensure by each site (in most cases, on an annual basis), and licenses may be revoked or suspended for cause at any time. These regulations relate to many aspects of restaurant operation, including the minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, wholesale purchasing, inventory control and handling, and storage and dispensing of alcoholic beverages. The failure of a restaurant to obtain or retain these licenses would adversely affect the restaurant’s operations. We also are subject in certain states to “dram-shop” statutes, which generally provide an injured party with recourse against an establishment that serves alcoholic beverages to an intoxicated person who then causes injury to himself or a third party. We carry liquor liability coverage as part of our comprehensive general liability insurance.  

We also are subject to federal and state minimum wage laws and other laws governing such matters as overtime, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards, and hiring and employment practices. Changes in these laws during fiscal 2008 have not had a material effect on our operations.  

We currently are operating under a Tip Rate Alternative Commitment (“TRAC”) agreement with the Internal Revenue Service. Through increased educational and other efforts in the restaurants, the TRAC agreement reduces the likelihood of potential chain-wide employer-only FICA assessments for unreported tips.  

We are subject to federal and state environmental regulations, but these rules have not had a material effect on our operations. During fiscal 2008, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no material expenditures for this purpose are anticipated.  

Our facilities must comply with the applicable requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (“ADA”) and related state accessibility statutes. Under the ADA and related state laws, we must provide equivalent service to disabled persons and make reasonable accommodation for their employment, and when constructing or undertaking significant remodeling of our restaurants, we must make those facilities accessible.  

We are subject to laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling. Multi-jurisdictional regulations relating to nutritional labeling may lead to increased operational complexity and expenses and may impact guest behavior.  

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements  

This report may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business of Darden Restaurants, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Statements preceded by, followed by or that include words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “intend,” “anticipate,” “continue,” “estimate,” “project,” “believe,” “plan” or similar expressions are intended to identify some of the forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are included, along with this statement, for purposes of complying with the safe harbor provisions of that Act. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements due to, among others, the risks and uncertainties described in this report, including under the heading “Risk Factors,” and the documents incorporated by reference in this report. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements for any reason, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.  

11  

Table of Contents 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

Our executive officers as of the date of this report are listed below.  

Clarence Otis, Jr., age 52, has been our Chairman of the Board since November 2005, Chief Executive Officer since November 2004, and a Director since September 2004. Mr. Otis was our Executive Vice President from March 2002 until November 2004 and President of Smokey Bones Barbeque & Grill from December 2002 until November 2004. He served as our Senior Vice President from December 1999 until March 2002, and our Chief Financial Officer from December 1999 until December 2002. He joined us in 1995 as Vice President and Treasurer. He served as our Senior Vice President, Investor Relations from July 1997 to August 1998, and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from August 1998 until December 1999. From 1991 to 1995, he was employed by Chemical Securities, Inc. (now J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc.), an investment banking firm, where he had been Managing Director and Manager of Public Finance.  

Andrew H. (Drew) Madsen, age 52, has been our President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2004, and a Director since September 2004. Mr. Madsen was our Senior Vice President and President of Olive Garden from March 2002 until November 2004, and Executive Vice President of Marketing for Olive Garden from December 1998 to March 2002. From 1997 until joining us, he was President of International Master Publishers, Inc., a company that developed and marketed consumer information products such as magazines and compact discs. From 1993 until 1997, he held various positions at James River Corporation (now part of Georgia-Pacific Corporation, a diversified paper and building products manufacturer), including Vice President and General Manager for the Dixie consumer products unit. From 1980 until 1992, he held various marketing positions with our former parent company, General Mills, Inc. a manufacturer and marketer of consumer food products.  

James (J.J.) Buettgen, age 48, has been our Senior Vice President, Business Development since May 2007. He served as our Senior Vice President and President of Smokey Bones Barbeque & Grill from November 2004 until May 2007, and our Senior Vice President and President-designate of Smokey Bones from August 2004 until November 2004. From July 2003 until August 2004, he was President of Big Bowl Asian Kitchen, a full service dining company owned by Brinker International, Inc., a restaurant operator, and from October 2002 until June 2003 he was Senior Vice President of Marketing and Brand Development for Brinker. From 1999 to 2002, he was Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales for Disneyland Resorts, a division of the Walt Disney Company, where he helped launch Disney’s California Adventure theme park, and from 1998 to 1999 was Senior Vice President of Marketing for Hollywood Entertainment Group, a video retailer. He held several marketing posts with our former parent company, General Mills, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of consumer food products, from 1989 through 1994, and served first as a director, next as Vice President, and then as Senior Vice President of Marketing for Olive Garden from 1994 until 1998.  

Valerie K. Collins, age 49, has been our Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller since December 2006, and was Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller, and Chief Information Officer from December 2006 until September 2007. She served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer from January 2003 until December 2006, and Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller for Red Lobster from August 1998 until January 2003. She joined Red Lobster in 1985 as Manager of Accounting Systems and held progressively more responsible positions until being promoted to Vice President Finance and Controller for Olive Garden in 1994 and to Senior Vice President Finance and Controller for Olive Garden in 1996.  

David George, age 52, has been our President of LongHorn Steakhouse since our acquisition of RARE on October 1, 2007. Prior to the acquisition, he served as RARE’s President of LongHorn Steakhouse from May 2003 until October 2007. From October 2001 until May 2003, he was RARE’s Senior Vice President of Operations for LongHorn Steakhouse, and from May 2000 until October 2001 was RARE’s Vice President of Operations for The Capital Grille.  

Kim A. Lopdrup, age 50, has been our Senior Vice President and President of Red Lobster since May 2004. He joined us in November 2003 as Executive Vice President of Marketing for Red Lobster. From 2001 until 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for North American operations of Burger King Corporation, an operator and franchiser of fast food restaurants. From 1985 until 2001, he worked for Allied Domecq Quick Service Restaurants (“ADQSR”), a franchiser of quick service restaurants including Dunkin’ Donuts,   

12  

Table of Contents 

 Baskin-Robbins and Togo’s Eateries, where he held progressively more responsible positions in marketing, strategic and general management roles, eventually serving as Chief Executive Officer of ADQSR International.  

Eugene I. (Gene) Lee, Jr., age 47, has been President of our Specialty Restaurant Group since our acquisition of RARE on October 1, 2007. Prior to the acquisition, he served as RARE’s President and Chief Operating Officer from January 2001 to October 2007. From January 1999 until January 2001, he served as RARE’s Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.  

Daniel M. Lyons, age 55, has been our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since January 1997. He joined us in 1993 as Senior Vice President of Personnel for Olive Garden. Prior to joining Olive Garden, he spent 18 years with the Quaker Oats Company, an international marketer of food and beverage products, holding increasingly more responsible positions including Vice President Human Resources for the North American Breakfast Food Division.  

Robert McAdam, age 50, has been our Senior Vice President of Government and Community Affairs since December 2006. Prior to joining us, he was employed by retailer Wal-Mart Inc. as Vice President, Corporate Affairs from 2004 to 2006, and Vice President, State and Local Government Relations from 2000 to 2004. From 1997 to 2000 he was a Senior Vice President of Fleishman-Hillard, an international public relations firm.  

David T. Pickens, age 53, has been our Senior Vice President and President of Olive Garden since December 2004. He joined us in 1973 as a Red Lobster hourly employee and progressed from manager trainee to regional operations manager, director of operations, and ultimately was promoted to a division Senior Vice President of Operations for Red Lobster. He joined Olive Garden in 1995 as Senior Vice President of Operations for the Orlando division and was promoted to Executive Vice President of Operations in September 1999, where he served until his promotion to President of Olive Garden in December 2004.  

C. Bradford (Brad) Richmond, age 49, has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since December 2006. From August 2005 to December 2006, he served as our Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller. He served as Senior Vice President Finance, Strategic Planning and Controller of Red Lobster from January 2003 to August 2005, and previously was Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller at Olive Garden from August 1998 to January 2003. He joined us in 1982 as a food and beverage analyst for Casa Gallardo, a restaurant concept formerly owned and operated by us, and from June 1985 to August 1998 held progressively more responsible finance and marketing positions with our York Steak House, Red Lobster and Olive Garden operating companies in both the United States and Canada.  

Paula J. Shives, age 57, has been our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since June 1999. Prior to joining us, she served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1995 to 1999, and Associate General Counsel from 1985 to 1995, of Long John Silver’s Restaurants, Inc., a seafood restaurant company.  

 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS