ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 

We have exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates. Market interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control. Our exposure to a change in interest rates on our consolidated and non-consolidated debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

We may utilize various financial instruments to mitigate the impact of interest rate fluctuations on our cash flows and earnings, including hedging strategies, depending on our analysis of the interest rate environment and the costs and risks of such strategies. As of December 31, 2010, variable rate debt with an aggregate principal amount of $564,707,181 and a weighted average interest rate of 2.84% was subject to LIBOR caps. These caps are based on a notional amount of $558,844,181 and cap LIBOR at a weighted average rate of 5.68%.  

As of December 31, 2010, we have investments in mezzanine loans with an aggregate carrying amount of $138,434,000 that are based on variable interest rates which partially mitigate our exposure to a change in interest rates on our variable rate debt. 

Fair Value of Debt 

The estimated fair value of our consolidated debt is calculated based on current market prices and discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt. As of December 31, 2010, the estimated fair value of our consolidated debt was $11,190,189,000. 

Derivative Instruments 

We have, and may in the future enter into, derivative positions that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, including our economic interest in J.C. Penney common shares. Because these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the gains or losses resulting from their mark-to-market at the end of each reporting period are recognized as an increase or decrease in “interest and other investment income (loss), net” on our consolidated statements of income. In addition, we are, and may in the future be, subject to additional expense based on the notional amount of the derivative positions and a specified spread over LIBOR. Because the market value of these instruments can vary significantly between periods, we may experience significant fluctuations in the amount of our investment income or expense in any given period. During the year ended December 31, 2010 we recognized $130,153,000 of income from derivative instruments.  

112 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA