PART I  

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

“Newell Rubbermaid” or the “Company” refers to Newell Rubbermaid Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.  

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports  

The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellrubbermaid.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.  

GENERAL  

Newell Rubbermaid is a global marketer of consumer and commercial products that touch the lives of people where they work, live and play. The Company’s products are marketed under a strong portfolio of brands, including Rubbermaid®, Graco®, Aprica®, Levolor®, Calphalon®, Goody®, Sharpie®, Paper Mate®, Dymo®, Parker®, Waterman®, Irwin®, Lenox® and Technical Concepts™. The Company’s multi-product offering consists of well-known name-brand consumer and commercial products in three business segments: Home & Family; Office Products; and Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products.  

Newell Rubbermaid’s vision is to become a global company of Brands That Matter™ and great people, known for best-in-class results. The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands through understanding the needs of consumers and using those insights to create innovative, highly differentiated product solutions that offer performance and value. To support its multi-year transformation into a best-in-class global consumer branding and marketing organization, the Company has adopted a strategy that focuses on optimizing the business and product portfolio, building consumer-meaningful brands on a global scale, and achieving best cost and efficiency in its operations.  

Refer to the forward-looking statements section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Company’s forward-looking statements included in this report.  

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES  

Optimize the Portfolio  

The Company continues to optimize its portfolio by reducing its exposure to non-strategic businesses and product lines, thereby enhancing the growth opportunities and profitability of the overall portfolio. The Company seeks to build a portfolio of businesses that satisfy several key strategic criteria, including consumer-meaningful brands, product categories that respond to innovation and product differentiation, strong margin and growth potential, global categories, favorable customer and channel dynamics, valued intellectual property and synergies with the Company’s core product categories and competencies.  

Using the above criteria, the Company routinely reviews its businesses and product offerings to assess their strategic fit. The Company has reduced its exposure to non-strategic product categories by rationalizing and exiting the low-margin, low-value-add areas of the business, which primarily include products where input costs are a higher percentage of the cost of the product and where the consumer’s willingness to pay for innovation is low. The Company’s strategic focus is on building strong, consumer-meaningful brands, and the non-strategic product categories are generally commoditized and are less responsive to brand investment and product innovation. Over the past several years, the Company has substantially exited the portion of the portfolio that falls into the commoditized category, including the rationalization and exit of certain resin-intensive, commoditized product categories in 2009. The recent portfolio optimization activities resulted in net sales being more than $300 million less in 2009 compared to 2008. Exiting non-strategic and commoditized product categories has allowed the Company to focus on its portfolio of Brands That Matter™.  

The Company will continue to evaluate the strategic fit of its products, and, when appropriate, strategic acquisitions that can accelerate the migration of its portfolio to faster-growing, higher-margin businesses with greater presence in international markets.  

3  

Table of Contents 

Build Consumer-Meaningful Brands  

The Company is committed to building consumer-meaningful brands by embracing a consumer-driven innovation process, developing best-in-class marketing and branding capabilities across the organization, and investing in strategic brand-building activities. As part of the consumer-driven innovation process, the Company invests in research and development to better understand its target consumers and their needs. The consumer insights gained from this investment are used to develop focused brand strategies and to create products that deliver meaningful solutions. In spite of the recent deterioration in the worldwide economy, the Company continued to invest in product development. While the Company’s sales declined in 2009 compared to 2008, the Company invested more than $110 million in product development in 2009, similar to the level of investment in 2008. This continued focus on consumer-driven innovation and product development resulted in the launch and support of several notable new products in 2009, including:  

   •    Rubbermaid Lock-its™ food storage containers, an extension of the brand’s Easy Find Lids™ system, feature four locking tabs and a built-in rubberized gasket to create a secure seal that prevents spills and keeps food fresh.  

   •    The Rubbermaid Hygen™ System, a comprehensive microfiber cleaning program from Rubbermaid Commercial Products, provides innovative solutions for proven performance in maintaining healthy, safe environments.  

   •    The Graco Blossom™ 4-in-1 Seating System is designed to adjust to growing children’s seating needs, transforming seamlessly from highchair to infant feeding booster to toddler booster to youth chair.  

   •    Lenox’s T2 Technology™ Reciprocating Saw Blades and Hacksaw Blades, the longest lasting blades on the market.  

   •    Paper Mate’s Flexgrip Ultra® ballpoint pens, Write Bros® ballpoint pens and DryLine® Grip correction tape, an updated line of environmentally friendlier writing essentials made of up to 80% recycled materials.  

By embracing the consumer-driven innovation process, the Company will continue to introduce innovative new products that meet consumers’ needs, strengthen its brands and drive sustainable growth.  

The Company continues to employ resources to create best-in-class branding and marketing capabilities across the Company. The Company has created a detailed blueprint and roadmap for achieving brand-building excellence over time. Each business unit is tasked with evaluating its brands against best-in-class metrics, using a common framework and methodology, and developing a comprehensive plan to achieve the targeted goals.  

The Company is committed to investing in strategic brand-building activities such as research and development, marketing, and advertising and promotion to enhance consumer-driven innovation, create a more effective marketing organization and increase consumer awareness and demand for its products.  

Achieve Best Cost and Efficiency  

The Company’s objective is to achieve best cost in operations and leverage its scale to accelerate adoption of best-in-class practices and reduce costs in nonmarket-facing activities. Achieving best cost across the organization will enable the Company to improve its competitive position, generate funds for increased investment in strategic brand-building initiatives, and preserve cash and liquidity. Through the Project Acceleration restructuring program and other initiatives, the Company has reduced the number of manufacturing facilities, increased the use of strategic sourcing partners and improved capacity utilization rates to deliver productivity savings. In order to achieve logistical excellence and optimize its geographic footprint, the Company continues to evaluate its supply chain to identify opportunities to realize efficiencies in purchasing, distribution and transportation. Through December 31, 2009, the Company has recognized approximately $160 million of cumulative annualized savings from Project Acceleration, and expects total savings in excess of $200 million once the program is fully implemented at the end of 2010. Project Acceleration is expected to result in cumulative restructuring costs of $475 million to $500 million over the life of the initiative. The Company has incurred $421 million of restructuring costs under Project Acceleration through December 31, 2009 and expects to incur between $60 million and $80 million of additional costs to complete Project Acceleration.  

The Company has focused on optimizing its organizational structure to reduce structural selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses and better manage its working capital. The centerpiece of the Company’s organizational structure is the Global Business Unit (“GBU”). Each of the Company’s GBUs supports one or more of the Company’s key brands worldwide, with a focus on developing and marketing differentiated products designed to meet consumers’ needs. The GBU structure positions the business units to leverage research and development, branding, marketing and innovation on a global basis and facilitates the Company’s objective of optimizing working capital, as it facilitates better management of worldwide inventory levels. The Company continues to evaluate and optimize non-strategic SG&A expenditures throughout the organization to enable continuing investments in brand-building activities.  

4  

Table of Contents 

The Company strives to leverage the common business activities and best practices of its GBUs, and to build one common culture of shared values with a focus on collaboration and teamwork. Through this initiative, the Company seeks to benefit from the cost reductions achieved through horizontal integration and economies of scale. To improve efficiency, enable greater sharing of best practices, and make it easier to leverage talent across the organization, the Company has co-located GBUs and corporate functions into one global headquarters building and has consolidated several offices for the European and Asia-Pacific regional headquarters, respectively. For similar reasons, the Company has established regional shared services centers to leverage nonmarket-facing functional capabilities such as Human Resources, Information Technology, Customer Service, Supply Chain Management and Finance. Through these centralization efforts, the Company is focused on building a common culture centered on consumer-focused brand building, collaboration, diversity and people development, and best-in-class results.  

To further enhance productivity, the Company is in the process of migrating multiple legacy systems and users to a common SAP global information platform in a phased, multi-year rollout. SAP will enable the Company to integrate and manage its worldwide business and reporting processes more efficiently. To date, the North American operations of 10 of the Company’s 13 GBUs have successfully gone live with their SAP implementation efforts, with the majority of the Company’s remaining North American operations scheduled to go live in 2010.  

BUSINESS SEGMENTS  

In the first quarter of 2009, the GBUs within the previously reported Cleaning, Organization & Décor segment were reorganized into the Tools & Hardware and Home & Family segments. The Rubbermaid Commercial Products GBU was transferred to the newly named Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products segment, and the Rubbermaid Consumer Products (formerly the Rubbermaid Food & Home Products GBU) and Décor GBUs were transferred to the Home & Family segment. The reorganization allows the Company to realize structural SG&A and commercialization efficiencies. The Company’s reportable segments reflect the Company’s focus on building large consumer brands, promoting organizational integration, achieving operating efficiencies in sourcing and distribution and leveraging its understanding of similar consumer segments and distribution channels.  

The Company’s business segments for 2009 were as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Home & Family  

The Company’s Home & Family segment comprises the following GBUs: Rubbermaid Consumer Products; Baby & Parenting Essentials; Décor; Culinary Lifestyles; and Beauty & Style. Rubbermaid Consumer Products designs, manufactures, packages and distributes indoor/outdoor organization products, and food and home storage products. Baby & Parenting Essentials designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes infant and juvenile products such as swings, highchairs, car seats, strollers and playards. Décor designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes window treatments, drapery hardware and cabinet hardware. Culinary Lifestyles primarily designs, manufactures or sources, packages and distributes aluminum and stainless steel cookware, bakeware, cutlery, small kitchen electrics, and kitchen gadgets and utensils. Beauty & Style designs, sources, packages and distributes hair care accessories and grooming products.  

Rubbermaid Consumer Products primarily sells its products under the trademarks Rubbermaid®, Roughneck® and TakeAlongs®. Baby & Parenting Essentials primarily sells its products under the trademarks Graco®, Teutonia® and Aprica®. Décor primarily sells its products under the trademarks Levolor®, Kirsch® and Amerock®. Culinary Lifestyles primarily sells its products under the trademarks Calphalon®, Kitchen Essentials®, Cooking with Calphalon™, Calphalon®One™ and Katana™. Beauty & Style markets its products primarily under the trademarks Goody®, Ace® and Solano®.  

5  

Table of Contents 

The Home & Family GBUs primarily market their products directly to mass merchants and specialty, grocery/drug and department stores.  

Office Products  

The Company’s Office Products segment comprises the following GBUs: Markers, Highlighters, Art & Office Organization; Everyday Writing & Coloring; Technology; and Fine Writing & Luxury Accessories. These businesses primarily design, manufacture or source, package and distribute writing instruments and office solutions, primarily for use in the business and home.  

Markers, Highlighters, Art & Office Organization products include permanent/waterbase markers, dry erase markers, highlighters, and art supplies and are primarily sold under the trademarks Sharpie®, Expo®, Sharpie® Accent®, Vis-à-Vis®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol® and Prismacolor®. Everyday Writing products include ballpoint pens and inks, roller ball pens, mechanical pencils and correction fluids and are primarily sold under the trademarks Paper Mate®, Uni-Ball® (used under exclusive license from Mitsubishi Pencil Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries in North America), Sharpie®, Eberhard Faber®, Berol®, Reynolds® and Liquid Paper®. Technology products include on-demand labeling products, online postage, card scanning solutions and interactive teaching solutions, and are primarily sold under the trademarks Dymo®, Endicia™, CardScan® and Mimio®. Fine Writing & Luxury Accessories products include fine writing instruments and luxury accessories and are primarily sold under the trademarks Parker®, Waterman® and Rotring®.  

The Office Products GBUs primarily market their products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, grocery/drug stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers and other retailers.  

Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products  

The Company’s Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products segment comprises the following GBUs: Commercial Products; Construction Tools & Accessories; Industrial Products & Services; and Hardware. These businesses design, manufacture or source, package and distribute cleaning and refuse products, hygiene systems, hand tools and power tool accessories, industrial bandsaw blades, soldering tools and accessories, propane torches, manual paint applicator products, and window and door hardware.  

Commercial Products primarily sells its cleaning and refuse products and hygiene systems under the trademarks Rubbermaid®, Brute® and Technical Concepts™. Construction Tools & Accessories products include hand tools and power tool accessories primarily sold under the trademarks Irwin®, Vise-Grip®, Marathon®, Quick-Grip®, Unibit® and Strait-Line®. Industrial Products & Services products include cutting and drilling accessories and industrial bandsaw blades as well as soldering tools and accessories primarily sold under the Lenox® trademark. Hardware products include paint applicator products, propane torches and window and door hardware primarily sold under the trademarks Shur-Line®, BernzOmatic® and Bulldog®.  

The Tools, Hardware & Commercial Products GBUs primarily market their products directly and through distributors to mass merchants, home centers, department/specialty stores, hardware and commercial products distributors, industrial/construction outlets, custom shops, select contract customers and other professional customers.  

NET SALES BY BUSINESS SEGMENT  

The following table sets forth the amounts and percentages of the Company’s net sales for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007(in millions, except percentages) (including sales of acquired businesses from the time of acquisition), for the Company’s three business segments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries, which includes Sam’s Club, amounted to approximately 12% of consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 13% of consolidated net sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, substantially across all segments. For more detailed segment information, including operating income and identifiable assets by segment, refer to Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

6  

Table of Contents 

OTHER INFORMATION  

Multi-Product Offering  

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.  

Customer Marketing and Service  

The Company strives to develop long-term, mutually beneficial partnerships with its customers and become their supplier and brand of choice. To achieve this goal, the Company has a value-added marketing program that offers a family of leading brand name consumer products, tailored sales programs, innovative merchandising support, in-store services and responsive top management.  

The Company strives to enhance its relationships with customers through exceptional customer service. The Company’s ability to provide superior customer service is a result of its supply chain, information technology and marketing and merchandising programs that are designed to enhance the sales and profitability of its customers and provide consistent on-time delivery of its products.  

A critical element of the Company’s customer service is consistent on-time delivery of products to its customers. Retailers are pursuing a number of strategies to deliver the highest-quality, best-cost products to their customers. Retailers frequently purchase on a “just-in-time” basis in order to reduce inventory carrying costs and increase returns on investment. As retailers shorten their lead times for orders, manufacturers and suppliers need to more closely anticipate consumer buying patterns. The Company supports its retail customers’ “just-in-time” inventory strategies through more responsive sourcing, manufacturing and distribution capabilities and electronic communications.  

Foreign Operations  

Information regarding the Company’s 2009, 2008 and 2007 foreign operations and financial information by geographic area is included in Footnote 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein. Information regarding risks relating to the Company’s foreign operations is set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this report and is incorporated by reference herein.  

The Company’s Office Products segment has operations in Venezuela, and the primary currency used by the Venezuelan operations to transact business is the Venezuelan Bolivar. Through December 1, 2009, the Company used the official exchange rate in Venezuela to translate its Venezuelan operations’ financial statements into U.S. Dollars, and using the official exchange rate, the Venezuelan operations generated net sales of approximately $65 million and operating income of approximately $25 million in 2009. Based on the challenges the Company has faced in repatriating Venezuelan earnings to the U.S. and other facts and circumstances, the Company adopted the parallel rate to translate its Venezuelan financial statements into U.S. Dollars, effective December 1, 2009. In December 2009, the parallel exchange rate of Venezuelan Bolivars to U.S. Dollars was approximately three times the official rate. Due solely to the change in exchange rates used to translate Venezuelan Bolivar financial statements in December 2009 (i) net assets, including cash, declined approximately $30 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and (ii) the Company’s 2010 sales and operating income are anticipated to decline an estimated 1% and 3%, respectively, compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 due to the ongoing translation of the Venezuela Bolivar at the parallel rate.  

Effective January 1, 2010, Venezuela’s economy has been characterized as highly inflationary because its three-year cumulative inflation has exceeded 100%. As a result, changes in the U.S. Dollar value of the Company’s Venezuelan Bolivar net assets attributable to fluctuations in the parallel rate will be recorded as gains or losses in the statement of operations rather than in other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders’ equity.  

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods  

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate and metals, including steel, stainless steel, zinc, aluminum and gold. The Company’s resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene and polypropylene in roughly equal quantities. Over the long-term, the Company has experienced inflation in raw material prices, and the Company expects inflation pressures in 2010. The Company has reduced the volume of its resin purchases through rationalizing and exiting product lines.  

7  

Table of Contents 

The Company is also placing increasing reliance on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. In a limited number of cases, such manufacturers supply substantially all of the finished goods for a product line. In particular, the Home & Family segment’s Baby & Parenting Essentials GBU relies on a third-party manufacturer for a significant portion of certain of its products.  

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion.  

Backlog  

The dollar value of unshipped factory orders is not material.  

Seasonal Variations  

The Company’s sales and operating income in the first quarter are generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced demand for certain of the Company’s products in the quarter.  

Patents and Trademarks  

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and trade names that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks are “Rubbermaid®,” “Graco®,” “Aprica®,” “Levolor®,” “Calphalon®,” “Goody®,” “Sharpie®,” “Paper Mate®,” “Dymo®,” “Parker®,” “Waterman®,” “Irwin®,” “Lenox®,” and “Technical Concepts™.”  

Customers / Competition  

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs and office superstores, and commercial distributors. The rapid growth of these large mass merchandisers, together with changes in consumer shopping patterns, have contributed to a significant consolidation of the consumer products retail industry and the formation of dominant multi-category retailers that have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment limits the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through selling prices.  

Current trends among retailers include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, demanding innovative new products and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for the retailer to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products, under their own private label brands, that compete with products of the Company. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in pricing pressures and the need for strong end-user brands, the ongoing introduction of innovative new products and continuing improvements in category management and customer service. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well- established.  

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining consumer-meaningful brands and differentiated products; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery; outsourcing certain production to low-cost suppliers and lower-cost countries where appropriate; and experienced management.  

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailer, including discount, drug, grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; and contract stationers. The Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart (which includes Sam’s Club), accounted for approximately 12% of net sales in 2009, across substantially all GBUs. The Company’s top ten customers in 2009 included (in alphabetical order): Bed Bath & Beyond, Lowe’s, Office Depot, OfficeMax, Staples, Target, The Home Depot, Toys ‘R’ Us, W.W. Grainger and Wal-Mart.  

Environmental Matters  

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report and in Footnote 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

Research and Development  

Information regarding the Company’s research and development costs for each of the past three years is included in Footnote 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Employees  

As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately 19,500 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 2,700 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are located in countries which have collective arrangements decreed by statute.  

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS