Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.  

In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. As of December 31, 2015, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. However, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties.  

Interest Rate Exposure — Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our ongoing financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the Financial Assurance and Insurance Obligations section of Item 1.  

As of December 31, 2015, we had $9.0 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. Approximately, $911 million of our debt is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months. Our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $491 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (ii) $316 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within 12 months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities; (iii) $84 million of outstanding borrowings under our Canadian term loan and (iv) $20 million of borrowings outstanding under $2.25 billion revolving credit facility. We currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2016 interest expense by approximately $8 million. As of December 31, 2014, the effective interest rates of approximately $1.4 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were subject to change within 12 months.  

Our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our “fixed-rate” tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments, if any, can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change.  

We performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. This analysis is inherently limited because it reflects a singular,  

68  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. An instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our debt by approximately $600 million at December 31, 2015.  

We are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. These assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. Because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant.  

Commodity Price Exposure — In the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. During the three years ended December 31, 2015, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities, with the exception of electricity commodity derivatives divested in conjunction with the sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014. Alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. Accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease.  

Currency Rate Exposure — We have operations in Canada as well as a cost center in India and investments in Hong Kong. Where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating costs. However, the impact of foreign currency has not materially affected our results of operations. During 2015, we did see a reduction in stockholders’ equity of $159 million due to the fluctuations in the Canadian dollar within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). We hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk using currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany Canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. Our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. In addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the Company. The foreign currency exposure associated with these investments has not been material. Refer to Notes 8 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives and translation.  

69  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.