Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2015. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements that anticipate results based on management’s plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations in Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Overview  

Our Company’s goals are targeted at serving our customers, our employees, the environment, the communities in which we work and our stockholders, and achievement of our goals is intended to meet the needs of a changing industry. Our Company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. Increasingly, customers want more of their waste materials recovered, while waste streams are becoming more complex, and our aim is to address, and anticipate, the current, expanding and evolving needs of our customers. Accomplishment of our goals will grow our Company and allow us to meet the needs of our customers and communities as they, too, Think Green®.  

We believe we are uniquely equipped to meet the challenges of the changing waste industry and our customers’ waste management needs, both today and as we work together to envision and create a more sustainable future. As the waste industry leader, we have the expertise necessary to collect and handle our customers’ waste efficiently and responsibly by delivering environmental performance — maximizing resource value, while minimizing environmental impact — so that both our economy and our environment can thrive. Drawing on our resources and experience, we also pursue projects and initiatives that benefit the waste industry, the customers and communities we serve and the environment.  

We remain dedicated to providing long-term value to our stockholders by successfully executing our strategy: to know and service our customers better than anyone in our industry, to extract more value from the materials we manage, and to innovate and optimize our business. We plan to accomplish our strategic goals through competitive advantages derived from operational improvements and focused differentiation in our industry, driven by capitalizing on our extensive, well-placed network of assets. While we will continue to monitor emerging diversion technologies that may generate additional value, our current attention will be on improving existing diversion technologies, such as our recycling operations.  

In pursuit of these long-term goals, we recognize that we must grow the business, and do so as efficiently and cost effectively as possible. Accordingly, we are focusing on the following five key company priorities:  

   •   Customers: provide the best possible service to our customers;  

   •   Traditional Waste Business: continuously improve our operational performance;  

   •   Growth: take advantage of opportunities in our current business, as well as considering attractive acquisition opportunities;  

   •   Yield Management: remain focused on price leadership while considering competitive dynamics; and  

   •   Costs: minimize both operating costs and selling, general and administrative expenses.  

We believe that execution of our strategy through these key priorities will drive continued financial performance and leadership in a dynamic industry.  

Notable items of our 2015 financial results include:  

   •    Revenues of $12,961 million in 2015 compared with $13,996 million in 2014, a decrease of $1,035 million. This decrease in revenues is primarily attributable to (i) divestitures, which lowered revenues by $762 million, primarily the sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014; (ii) lower volumes, which decreased our revenues by $215 million; (iii) lower fuel surcharges and mandated fees of $171 million, primarily due to lower year-over-year average fuel prices; (iv) year-over-year  

31  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

     recyclable commodity price declines, which lowered revenues by $138 million and (v) foreign currency translation of $126 million related to our Canadian operations. These decreases were partially offset by positive revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations of $203 million, or 1.8%, and acquisitions, which increased revenues by $174 million, primarily due to the acquisition of Deffenbaugh in March 2015;  

   •   Operating expenses of $8,231 million in 2015, or 63.5% of revenues, compared with $9,002 million, or 64.3% of revenues in 2014. This decrease of $771 million is primarily attributable to (i) operating costs associated with divestitures of $495 million, primarily the sale of our Wheelabrator business; (ii) lower fuel costs of $187 million due to lower year-over-year average fuel prices; (iii) lower cost of goods sold of $102 million, primarily associated with lower recyclable commodity prices and (iv) lower subcontractor expenses of $70 million, primarily associated with lower volumes. These decreases were partially offset by higher transfer and disposal costs of $57 million, primarily due to incurring third party costs for services previously provided on an intercompany basis prior to the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business in 2014;  

   •   Selling, general and administrative expenses of $1,343 million in 2015, or 10.4% of revenues, compared with $1,481 million, or 10.6% of revenues, in 2014. This decrease of $138 million is attributable to (i) savings associated with our August 2014 reorganization; (ii) divestitures, primarily the sale of our Wheelabrator business; (iii) lower incentive compensation costs and (iv) lower litigation settlement costs;  

   •   Income from operations of $2,045 million, or 15.8% of revenues, in 2015 compared with $2,299 million, or 16.4% of revenues, in 2014, a decrease of $254 million, the comparability of which was affected by asset impairments in both periods and the 2014 gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business;  

   •   Interest expense, net decreased by $81 million, or 17.4%, in 2015 compared to 2014, primarily due to the refinancing of a significant portion of our high-coupon senior notes during 2015 discussed below;  

   •   Net income attributable to Waste Management, Inc. of $753 million, or $1.65 per diluted share, for 2015, as compared with $1,298 million, or $2.79 per diluted share, for 2014, the decrease was primarily driven by the 2015 loss on early extinguishment of debt discussed below; and  

   •   In 2015, we returned $1,295 million to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases compared with $1,293 million in 2014.  

The following explanation of certain items that impacted the comparability of our 2015 results with 2014 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2015 results were affected by the following:  

   •   The recognition of a pre-tax loss of $555 million, primarily associated with the early extinguishment of almost $2 billion of our high-coupon senior notes through a make-whole redemption and cash tender offer. We replaced substantially all of the debt extinguished with new senior notes at significantly lower coupon interest rates, which will reduce future interest expense and extend the average maturity of our debt obligations. The charges incurred for the redemption had a negative impact of $0.75 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   •   The $51 million pre-tax charge associated with the withdrawal from certain underfunded multiemployer pension plans had a negative $0.07 impact on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   •   Net pre-tax charges of $102 million resulting from impairments, restructuring and divestitures, of which $66 million related to the impairment of certain of our oil and gas producing properties. These items had a negative impact of $0.14 on our diluted earnings per share.  

32  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following explanation of certain items that impacted the comparability of our 2014 results with 2013 has been provided to support investors’ understanding of our performance. Our 2014 results were affected by the following:  

   •   The recognition of net pre-tax gains of $515 million, which includes the $519 million gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business. These items had a positive impact of $1.10 on our diluted earnings per share;  

   •   Net income was negatively impacted by the recognition of net pre-tax charges aggregating $420 million primarily related to (i) $272 million of charges to impair our oil and gas producing properties; (ii) $69 million of charges to impair investments related to waste diversion technology companies; (iii) $31 million of litigation settlements; (iv) $10 million of goodwill impairment charges associated with our recycling operations and (v) other charges to write down the carrying value of assets to their estimated fair values related to certain of our operations. These items had a negative impact of $0.68 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   •   The recognition of pre-tax restructuring charges of $82 million, which had a negative impact of $0.11 on our diluted earnings per share.  

Our 2013 results were affected by the following:  

   •   The recognition of net pre-tax charges aggregating $1.0 billion, primarily related to (i) a $483 million charge to impair goodwill associated with our Wheelabrator business; (ii) $262 million of charges to impair certain landfills, primarily in our Eastern Canada Area; (iii) $144 million of charges to write down the carrying value of three waste-to-energy facilities and (iv) $71 million of impairment charges relating to investments in waste diversion technology companies. These items had a negative impact of $1.91 on our diluted earnings per share; and  

   •   The recognition of pre-tax charges aggregating $23 million primarily related to our acquisitions of Greenstar and RCI as well as prior restructurings and other charges. These items had a negative impact of $0.03 on our diluted earnings per share.  

In 2015, we generated strong earnings and cash flow growth from our Solid Waste business by continuing a disciplined focus on revenue growth and cost control. These results were driven by strong core pricing in each line of business; controlling costs of both our operations and corporate functions; improving customer experience by differentiating our service offerings to reduce customer churn; maintaining discipline around capital spending; and implementing a more rational and sustainable framework for recycling operations as an integrated component of solid waste services. Another priority we successfully pursued in 2015 was the investment of cash proceeds from the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business in late 2014 to support our strategic growth plans. In 2015, we acquired Deffenbaugh Disposal, Inc. (“Deffenbaugh”), one of the largest privately owned collection and disposal firms in the Midwest. In addition, in January 2016, we completed the acquisition of Southern Waste Systems/Sun Recycling in Southern Florida. These transactions reflect our view that we can create shareholder value by making accretive acquisitions in our Solid Waste business. As we look forward to 2016, our key priorities will remain the same — driving revenue growth from yield, maintaining our commitment to provide excellent customer service and improving our productivity while managing our costs. We believe that continued execution of these objectives will translate into earnings and cash flow growth, leaving us well positioned to continue investing in our business, pay dividends and repurchase shares, while continuing our commitment to maintain a strong balance sheet.  

Free Cash Flow  

As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP measure of liquidity, in our disclosures because we use this measure in the evaluation and management of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less capital expenditures, plus proceeds from divestitures of  

33  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 businesses and other assets (net of cash divested). We believe it is indicative of our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. Free cash flow is not intended to replace “Net cash provided by operating activities,” which is the most comparable GAAP measure. However, we believe free cash flow gives investors useful insight into how we view our liquidity. Nevertheless, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt service requirements.  

Our calculation of free cash flow and reconciliation to “Net cash provided by operating activities” is shown in the table below (in millions), and may not be calculated the same as similarly-titled measures presented by other companies:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 to the comparable period in 2014, the increase of $167 million is primarily related to (i) lower income tax payments, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, of $329 million in the current year; (ii) lower interest paid of $77 million in the current year and (iii) the settlement of forward-starting swap liabilities of $36 million in 2014. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease in cash earnings due to the sale of our Wheelabrator business in 2014; (ii) multiemployer pension plan settlement payments of approximately $60 million in 2015 and (iii) higher year-over-year annual incentive plan payments of approximately $65 million. Finally, we experienced unfavorable changes in our assets and liabilities, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, particularly non-trade related items including payroll and incentive accruals. However, we did experience continued improvement in both trade accounts receivable and accounts payable.  

When comparing our cash flows from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2014 to the comparable period in 2013, the decrease of $124 million is primarily related to higher income tax payments, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, of $242 million in 2014 and a payment of $36 million in 2014 to terminate our forward-starting swaps. These decreases were partially offset by higher cash earnings and favorable working capital changes.  

Although capital expenditures were higher in 2015 and 2013 as compared to 2014, the Company continues to maintain a disciplined focus on capital management. Fluctuations in our capital expenditures are a result of new business opportunities, growth in our existing business, and the timing of replacement of aging assets.  

The significantly higher proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other assets (net of cash divested) for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2013 is largely driven by the 2014 sales of (i) our Wheelabrator business for $1.95 billion; (ii) our investment in Shanghai Environment Group, which was part of our Wheelabrator business, for $155 million and (iii) our Puerto Rico operations for proceeds of $80 million, including $65 million in cash.  

Acquisitions  

Deffenbaugh Disposal, Inc. — On March 26, 2015, we acquired Deffenbaugh, one of the largest privately owned collection and disposal firms in the Midwest, for total consideration of $416 million ($413 million cash),  

34  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 inclusive of amounts for estimated working capital. Deffenbaugh’s assets include five collection operations, seven transfer stations, two recycling facilities, one subtitle-D landfill, and one construction and demolition landfill.  

Greenstar, LLC — On January 31, 2013, we paid $170 million inclusive of certain adjustments, to acquire Greenstar, LLC (“Greenstar”). Pursuant to the sale and purchase agreement, up to an additional $40 million was payable to the sellers, of which $20 million was guaranteed and paid in 2015. The remaining $20 million of this consideration was contingent based on changes in certain recyclable commodity indexes and had an estimated fair value at closing of $16 million. This contingent consideration was not earned. Greenstar was an operator of recycling and resource recovery facilities. This acquisition provides the Company’s customers with greater access to recycling solutions, having supplemented our extensive nationwide recycling network with the operations of one of the nation’s largest private recyclers.  

RCI Environnement, Inc. — On July 5, 2013, we paid C$509 million, or $481 million, to acquire substantially all of the assets of RCI Environnement, Inc. (“RCI”), the largest waste management company in Quebec, and certain related entities. Total consideration, inclusive of amounts for estimated working capital, was C$515 million, or $487 million. RCI provides collection, transfer, recycling and disposal operations throughout the Greater Montreal area. The acquired RCI operations complement and expand the Company’s existing assets and operations in Quebec.  

Divestitures  

Wheelabrator Business — On December 19, 2014, we sold our Wheelabrator business to an affiliate of Energy Capital Partners and received cash proceeds of $1.95 billion, net of cash divested, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We recognized a gain of $519 million on this sale which is included within “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments (other than goodwill) and unusual items” in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2015, net adjustments to this gain were immaterial on a pre-tax basis. In conjunction with the sale, the Company entered into several agreements to dispose of a minimum number of tons of waste at certain Wheelabrator facilities. These agreements generally provide for fixed volume commitments with certain market price resets through 2021.  

Other — In addition to the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business, we also divested our Puerto Rico operations as well as certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in 2014.  

In total, these divested businesses and assets provided $0.18 and $0.16 of earnings per diluted share for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

Subsequent Event  

On January 8, 2016, Waste Management Inc. of Florida, a wholly-owned subsidiary of WM, acquired certain operations and business assets of Southern Waste Systems/Sun Recycling in Southern Florida. The acquired business assets include residential, commercial, and industrial solid waste collection, processing/recycling and transfer operations, equipment, vehicles, real estate and customer agreements. Total consideration, inclusive of amounts for estimated working capital, paid at closing was $516 million and is subject to standard post-closing adjustments. The acquisition was funded primarily with borrowings under our long-term U.S. revolving credit facility (“$2.25 billion revolving credit facility”).  

Basis of Presentation of Consolidated Financial Information  

Deferred Income Taxes — In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) amended authoritative guidance associated with deferred income taxes. To simplify the presentation of deferred income taxes, the amended guidance requires that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in  

35  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 the statement of financial position. This eliminates the guidance to separate deferred income tax liabilities and assets into current and noncurrent amounts in the statement of financial position. The amendments to the authoritative guidance associated with deferred income taxes were effective for the Company on January 1, 2016; however, early adoption was permitted. The Company’s early adoption of this guidance in 2015 was applied retrospectively and did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions  

In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with precision from available data or simply cannot be calculated. In some cases, these estimates are difficult to determine, and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that present the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments, deferred income taxes and reserves associated with our insured and self-insured claims. Each of these items is discussed in additional detail below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements.  

Landfills  

Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of final capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfill’s remaining permitted and expansion airspace and (iv) the airspace associated with each final capping event.  

Landfill Costs — We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs.  

Final Capping Costs — We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs are anticipated to be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate landfill final capping costs to specific final capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Closure and Post-Closure Costs — We base our estimates for closure and post-closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post-closure monitoring and maintenance. The estimates for landfill closure and post-closure costs also consider when the costs are anticipated to be paid  

36  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward-looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post-closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization.  

Remaining Permitted Airspace — Our engineers, in consultation with third-party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography.  

Expansion Airspace — We also include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe that obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria:  

   •   Personnel are actively working on the expansion of an existing landfill, including efforts to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals;  

   •   We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan;  

   •   There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could negatively affect the success of such expansion; and  

   •   Financial analysis has been completed based on conceptual design, and the results demonstrate that the expansion meets Company criteria for investment.  

For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field-based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if certain of these criteria are no longer met as long as we continue to believe we will ultimately obtain the permit, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill-specific review process that includes approval by our Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 21 landfill sites with expansions included at December 31, 2015, three landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. One landfill required approval by our Chief Financial Officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining two landfills required approval because the permit application process did not meet the one- or five-year requirements.  

When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement costs related to final capping, closure and post-closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill.  

Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor (“AUF”) is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for future settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site-specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation  

37  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 of landfill leachate, and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi-level review by our engineering group, and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements.  

After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post-closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change.  

It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post-closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of a landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If at any time management makes the decision to abandon the expansion effort, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately.  

Environmental Remediation Liabilities  

We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party (“PRP”) investigations, settlements, and certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions.  

Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site-specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the costs for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third-party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on:  

   •   Management’s judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties’ sites;  

   •   Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation;  

   •   The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and  

   •   The typical allocation of costs among PRPs, unless the actual allocation has been determined.  

38  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Asset Impairments  

Our long-lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We monitor the carrying value of our long-lived assets for potential impairment on an ongoing basis and test the recoverability of such assets using significant unobservable (“Level 3”) inputs whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. These events or changes in circumstances, including management decisions pertaining to such assets, are referred to as impairment indicators. If an impairment indicator occurs, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group; (ii) actual third-party valuations and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs and is included in the and “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments (other than goodwill) and unusual items” line item in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized, which could impact our ability to accurately assess whether an asset has been impaired.  

There are additional considerations for impairments of landfills, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, as described below.  

Landfills — The assessment of impairment indicators and the recoverability of our capitalized costs associated with landfills and related expansion projects require significant judgment due to the unique nature of the waste industry, the highly regulated permitting process and the sensitive estimates involved. During the review of a landfill expansion application, a regulator may initially deny the expansion application although the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace, or a landfill may be required to cease accepting waste, prior to receipt of the expansion permit. However, such events occur in the ordinary course of business in the waste industry and do not necessarily result in impairment of our landfill assets because, after consideration of all facts, such events may not affect our belief that we will ultimately obtain the expansion permit. As a result, our tests of recoverability, which generally make use of a probability-weighted cash flow estimation approach, may indicate that no impairment loss should be recorded. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Expansion Airspace above for discussion of criteria involved in assessing our likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $262 million of charges to impair certain of our landfills, primarily as a result of our consideration of management’s decision in the fourth quarter of 2013 not to actively pursue expansion and/or development of such landfills. These charges were primarily associated with two landfills in our Eastern Canada Area, which are no longer accepting waste. We had previously concluded that receipt of permits for these landfills was probable. However, in connection with our asset rationalization and capital allocation analysis, which was influenced, in part, by our acquisition of RCI, we determined that the future costs to construct these landfills could be avoided as we are able to allocate disposal that would have gone to these landfills to other facilities and not materially impact operations. As a result of management’s decision, we determined that the carrying values of landfill assets were no longer able to be recovered by the undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. As such, we wrote their carrying values down to their estimated fair values using a market approach considering the highest and best use of the assets.  

Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess our goodwill for impairment using Level 3 inputs.  

39  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

We assess whether a goodwill impairment exists using both qualitative and quantitative assessments. Our qualitative assessment involves determining whether events or circumstances exist that indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If based on this qualitative assessment we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we will not perform a quantitative assessment.  

If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to perform a qualitative assessment, we perform a quantitative assessment, or two-step impairment test, to determine whether a goodwill impairment exists at the reporting unit. The first step in our quantitative assessment identifies potential impairments by comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value, there is an indication of potential impairment and the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment. Fair value is typically estimated using a combination of the income approach and market approach or only an income approach when applicable. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows of the reporting units. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the reporting units’ expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business. The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly-traded companies with similar characteristics to our business as a multiple of their reported cash flows. We then apply that multiple to the reporting units’ cash flows to estimate their fair values. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our reporting units.  

Fair value computed by these two methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that these two methods provide a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of our reporting units.  

During our annual 2013 impairment test of our goodwill balances we determined the fair value of our Wheelabrator business had declined and the associated goodwill was impaired. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of $483 million, which had no related tax benefit. We estimated the implied fair value of our Wheelabrator reporting unit goodwill using a combination of income and market approaches. Because the annual impairment test indicated that Wheelabrator’s carrying value exceeded its estimated fair value, we performed the “step two” analysis. In the “step two” analysis, the fair values of all assets and liabilities were estimated, including tangible assets, power contracts, customer relationships and trade name for the purpose of deriving an estimate of the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill was then compared to the carrying amount of goodwill to determine the amount of the impairment. The factors contributing to the $483 million goodwill impairment charge principally related to the continued challenging business environment in areas of the country in which Wheelabrator operated, characterized by lower available disposal volumes (which impact disposal rates and overall disposal revenue, as well as the amount of electricity Wheelabrator was able to generate), lower electricity pricing due to the pricing pressure created by availability of natural gas and increased operating costs as Wheelabrator’s facilities aged. These factors caused us to lower prior assumptions for electricity and disposal revenue, and increase assumed operating costs. Additionally, the discount factor previously utilized in the income approach in 2013 increased mainly due to increases in interest rates. In 2013, we also incurred $10 million of charges to impair goodwill associated with our Puerto Rico operations. In 2014, we recognized $10 million of goodwill impairment charges associated with our recycling operations.  

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Goodwill Impairments and (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to goodwill impairments recognized during the reported periods.  

40  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Other Than Goodwill — At least annually, and more frequently if warranted, we assess indefinite-lived intangible assets other than goodwill for impairment.  

When performing the impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we generally first conduct a qualitative analysis to determine whether we believe it is more likely than not that an asset has been impaired. If we believe an impairment has occurred, we then evaluate for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of assets to the carrying value. An impairment charge is recognized if the asset’s estimated fair value is less than its carrying value.  

Fair value is typically estimated using an income approach. The income approach is based on the long-term projected future cash flows. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted average cost of capital that considers factors such as market assumptions, the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon the expected long-term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business.  

Fair value computed by this method is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that this method provides a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of the reporting units.  

Deferred Income Taxes  

Deferred income taxes are based on the difference between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred income tax provision represents the change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities, net of the effect of acquisitions and dispositions. Deferred tax assets include tax loss and credit carry-forwards and are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Significant judgment is required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish reserves for uncertain tax positions when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, we believe that certain positions may be challenged and potentially disallowed. When facts and circumstances change, we adjust these reserves through our provision for income taxes. Should interest and penalties be assessed by taxing authorities on any underpayment of income tax, such amounts would be accrued and classified as a component of income tax expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

Insured and Self-Insured Claims  

We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers’ compensation claims programs. The exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, are based on an actuarial valuation and internal estimates. The accruals for these liabilities could be revised if future occurrences or loss development significantly differ from our assumptions used. Estimated recoveries associated with our insured claims are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable.  

41  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Results of Operations  

Operating Revenues  

Our operating revenues set forth below have generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, recycling and resource recovery, and from sales of commodities by our recycling and landfill gas-to-energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the disposal facility or MRF and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue generally consists of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for diesel fuel. Our divested Wheelabrator business provided waste-to-energy services and managed waste-to-energy facilities and independent power production plants. We also provide additional services that are not managed through our Solid Waste business, including Strategic Business Solutions (“WMSBS”), Energy and Environmental Services, recycling brokerage services, landfill gas-to-energy services, and expanded service offerings and solutions. In addition, we offer portable self-storage and long distance moving services through a joint venture; fluorescent bulb and universal waste mail-back through our LampTracker® program; portable restroom servicing under the name Port-o-Let® and street and parking lot sweeping services. In addition, we hold interests in oil and gas producing properties. These operations are presented as “Other” in the table below. The following table summarizes revenues during each period (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The mix of operating revenues from our major lines of business is reflected in the table below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table provides details associated with the period-to-period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Calculated by dividing the amount of current year increase or decrease by the prior year’s total Company revenue adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($13,234 million and $13,893 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively).  

 (b) The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We also analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related-business revenues in order to differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by market-driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes changes in revenues from average yield on a related-business basis (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (i) Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior year’s related business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year. The table below summarizes the related business revenues for each year, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

43  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Our revenues decreased $1,035 million, or 7.4%, for the year ended December 31, 2015. Our revenue decline was driven by (i) divestitures in 2014, principally our Wheelabrator business in December 2014, our Puerto Rico operations in the second quarter of 2014, and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in the third quarter of 2014; (ii) lower volumes; (iii) lower revenues from our fuel surcharge program due to declining fuel costs; (iv) lower recyclable commodity prices and (v) foreign currency translation, which affects revenues from our Canadian operations. Partially offsetting these revenue declines were (i) revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations and (ii) revenue from acquired operations, primarily the Deffenbaugh acquisition in March 2015.  

Our revenues increased $13 million, or 0.1%, for the year ended December 31, 2014, driven by (i) revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal operations; (ii) revenue from acquired operations, particularly the RCI operations acquired in July 2013 and (iii) fluctuations in electricity prices at Wheelabrator’s merchant waste-to-energy facilities that favorably affected revenues. Offsetting these revenue increases were (i) revenue declines due to lower volumes; (ii) divestitures in 2014, primarily our Puerto Rico operations, our Wheelabrator business and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area; (iii) foreign currency translation and (iv) revenue declines resulting from lower recyclable commodity prices.  

The following provides further details associated with our period-to-period change in revenues.  

Average yield  

Collection and disposal average yield — This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer and landfill operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to the types of services provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business and (iii) price decreases to retain customers.  

Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield was $203 million, or 1.8%, and $262 million, or 2.3%, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  

Our year-over-year yield growth was driven largely by our continued focus on our pricing strategy with lower rollbacks and improved new business pricing. We experienced growth in all three of our principal collection lines of business in both 2015 and 2014. The details are as follows (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Other drivers affecting both 2015 and 2014 average yield include:  

   •   A fee instituted to help us recover a portion of the significant regulatory costs and fees, such as host fees and disposal taxes, which are not recouped by our pricing programs. Revenues generated from this fee are approximately $113 million, $97 million and $43 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, principally in our collection business, with the most significant impact in our commercial line of business.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   •   Our 2014 revenue growth from yield in our industrial line of business was aided by the expansion of our oilfield services business. These services typically have higher average rates due to extended transportation distances, special waste handling costs and higher disposal costs as compared with our other industrial business. However, in 2015, reduced drilling and auxiliary activities due to the continued decline in oil and gas prices negatively affected our oilfield services business, which in turn affected our revenue growth in our industrial line of business.  

   •   In our residential line of business, we continue to focus on bidding on contracts that improve our yield performance and increase our overall returns.  

   •   Yield growth from our landfill and transfer station operations also improved for both 2015 and 2014.  

Recycling commodities — The continuing declines in recycling commodities prices resulted in revenue declines of $138 million and $53 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, compared with the prior year.  

Fuel surcharges and mandated fees — These revenues, which are predominantly generated by our fuel surcharge program, decreased $171 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These revenues fluctuate in response to changes in the national average prices for diesel fuel on which our surcharge is based. We experienced a dramatic fuel price decline of approximately 30% in 2015 versus the 2.4% fuel price decline in 2014, which caused a much more significant decline in our fuel surcharge revenues in the current year. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to pass-through fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal government agencies at our landfills and transfer stations.  

Volume — Declines in our volumes caused our revenue to decrease $215 million, or 1.6%, and $188 million, or 1.4%, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, as compared with the prior year.  

Operating Expenses  

Our operating expenses are comprised of (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third-party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees, contingent landfill lease payments and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on landfill liabilities, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include auto liability, workers’ compensation, general liability and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include telecommunications, equipment and facility rent, property taxes, utilities and supplies.  

Our operating expenses decreased $771 million, or 8.6%, when comparing 2015 with 2014 and decreased $110 million, or 1.2%, when comparing 2014 with 2013. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 63.5% in 2015, 64.3% in 2014, and 65.2% in 2013.  

45  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions), with significant changes in our operating expenses discussed below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Divestitures — During 2014, we divested our Wheelabrator business, our Puerto Rico operations, and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. The following table lists the operating expense categories in which these divestitures have had a material impact (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

In addition to the impact of divestitures noted above, other significant items by category of expense include:  

Labor and related benefits — The following significant items affected the comparability of expenses for the periods presented:  

   •   The recognition of $51 million of net charges in 2015 associated with the withdrawal from certain underfunded multiemployer pension plans;  

   •   Higher wages due to merit increases effective in the second quarters of 2014 and 2015;  

   •   Additional costs associated with the acquired operations of Deffenbaugh in 2015;  

   •   Lower headcount and contract labor due to lower volumes in our collection line of business and operating efficiencies in our recycling line of business; and  

   •   Decreased health and welfare costs in 2015 and increased health and welfare costs in 2014.  

Transfer and disposal costs — The increase in transfer and disposal costs in 2015 compared to the prior year was primarily due to incurring third party costs for services previously provided on an intercompany basis prior to the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014. These cost increases were offset, in part, by  

46  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 the reduction in costs due to the divestitures, as discussed above. The decrease in costs in 2014 were driven in part by lower volumes in the collection and recycling lines of business.  

Maintenance and repairs — The decrease in maintenance and repairs in 2015 was largely driven by the divestiture of Wheelabrator, which was partially offset by the increased costs related to the Deffenbaugh acquisition.  

Subcontractor costs — The following significant items affected the comparability of expenses for the periods presented:  

   •   Volume declines related to the loss of certain large accounts in our WMSBS organization;  

   •   Decreased costs associated with lower costs in the landfill and recycling businesses in 2015;  

   •   Higher costs related to remediation services; and  

   •   Higher costs related to the RCI operations acquired in July 2013.  

Cost of goods sold — The reduction in costs is primarily driven by lower recycling rebates due to (i) lower commodity prices; (ii) increased efforts to reduce controllable recycling rebates paid to customers; (iii) better alignment of rebate structures with commodity prices for new recycling contracts and (iv) ongoing recycling business improvement efforts around inbound quality control. These cost reductions were offset, in part, by increased costs in our remediation business and increased costs in 2014 related to our portable self-storage service.  

Fuel — The decrease in fuel expense in 2015 and 2014 when compared to the prior periods was driven by (i) lower fuel prices; (ii) lower fuel purchases due to reduced collection volumes; (iii) lower costs resulting from the conversion of our fleet to natural gas vehicles and (iv) year-over-year increases in natural gas fuel excise credits.  

Disposal and franchise fees and taxes — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include (i) increased disposal fees and taxes due to higher landfill volumes; (ii) decreased costs due to divestitures and (iii) a disposal surcharge in 2013.  

Landfill operating costs — Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include (i) unfavorable adjustments in 2014 as well as favorable adjustments in 2013 related to changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to discount the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets and (ii) higher leachate costs for all comparable periods.  

Risk management — The decrease in costs in 2014 was primarily due to lower auto and general liability claims and, to a lesser extent, decreased workers’ compensation claims.  

Selling, General and Administrative  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor and related benefit costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity-based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees and (iv) other selling, general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility-related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our “Other” selling, general and administrative expenses.  

Our selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $138 million, or 9.3%, when comparing 2015 with 2014 and increased $13 million, or 0.9%, when comparing 2014 with 2013. Our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues were 10.4% in 2015, 10.6% in 2014 and 10.5% in 2013.  

47  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Our 2014 divestitures, primarily the sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014, favorably affected all cost categories when comparing expenses in 2015 to 2014. In addition to the impact of divestitures, other significant items by category of expense include:  

Labor and related benefits — Factors affecting the year-over-year changes in our labor and related benefits costs include:  

   •   Cost savings from our August 2014 reorganization, which favorably affected both periods presented;  

   •   Lower incentive compensation costs in 2015 as compared to both 2014 and 2013; and  

   •   Merit increases in both 2015 and 2014.  

Other — Changes in our other expenses are a result of higher litigation settlement costs in 2014 and our continued focus on controlling costs.  

Depreciation and Amortization  

Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight-line basis from three to 40 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post-closure, on a units-of-consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the total estimated remaining capacity of a site, which includes both permitted capacity and expansion capacity that meets our Company-specific criteria for amortization purposes; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units-of-consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, using either a 150% declining balance approach or a straight-line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to 15 years depending on the type of asset.  

The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

48  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The decrease in depreciation of tangible property and equipment during 2015 is primarily due to the December 2014 sale of our Wheelabrator business as discussed further in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in amortization of landfill airspace during 2015 is primarily due to increased volumes, a portion of which relates to the acquisition of Deffenbaugh. This increase was partially offset by favorable adjustments resulting from changes in landfill estimates. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense during 2014 is primarily attributable to favorable adjustments resulting from changes in landfill estimates and fixed asset depreciation that was suspended when our Wheelabrator business was classified as held-for-sale in the third quarter of 2014 and subsequently sold in December 2014.  

Restructuring  

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized $15 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $10 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs, including costs associated with the loss of a municipal contract in our Eastern Canada Area and our acquisition of Deffenbaugh. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

In August 2014, we announced a consolidation and realignment of several Corporate functions to better support achievement of the Company’s strategic goals, including cost reduction. Voluntary separation arrangements were offered to all salaried employees within these organizations. Approximately 650 employees separated from our Corporate and recycling organizations in connection with this restructuring. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized a total of $82 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $70 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized a total of $18 million of pre-tax restructuring charges, of which $7 million was related to employee severance and benefit costs, including costs associated with our acquisitions of Greenstar and RCI and our prior restructurings. The remaining charges were primarily related to operating lease obligations for property that will no longer be utilized.  

Goodwill Impairments  

During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized $10 million of goodwill impairment charges associated with our recycling operations. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized $509 million of goodwill impairment charges, primarily related to (i) $483 million associated with our Wheelabrator business; (ii) $10 million associated with our Puerto Rico operations and (iii) $9 million associated with a majority-owned waste diversion technology company. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Asset Impairments and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to these impairment charges as well as the accounting policy and analysis involved in identifying and calculating impairments.  

(Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items  

The following table summarizes the major components of “(Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments (other than goodwill) and unusual items” for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

49  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recognized net charges of $82 million, primarily related to $66 million of charges to impair certain of our oil and gas producing properties, as a result of the continued decline in oil and gas prices. We wrote down the carrying value of these properties to their estimated fair value using an income approach. At December 31, 2015, our remaining book value in these investments was $30 million. We also recognized $18 million of charges to write down or divest of certain assets in our recycling operations and a $5 million impairment of a landfill in our Western Canada Area due to revised post-closure cost estimates. Partially offsetting these charges was $7 million in net gains from divestitures, including a $6 million gain on the sale of an oil and gas producing property in the second quarter of 2015.  

During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized net gains of $170 million, primarily related to the following:  

   •   Divestitures — We recognized net gains of $515 million, primarily as a result of a $519 million gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business and an $18 million gain on the sale of certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. Partially offsetting these gains was a $25 million loss on the divestiture of our Puerto Rico operations. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our divestitures.  

   •   Oil and gas properties impairments — We recognized $272 million of charges to impair certain of our oil and gas producing properties, primarily as a result of the pronounced decrease in oil and gas prices in the fourth quarter of 2014. We wrote down the carrying value of these properties to their estimated fair value using an income approach.  

   •   Other impairments — We recognized additional impairment charges of $73 million to write down assets in our waste diversion technology, renewable energy, recycling and medical waste operations.  

During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized net charges of $464 million, primarily related to the following:  

   •   Landfill impairments — We recognized $262 million of charges to impair certain of our landfills, primarily as a result of our consideration of management’s decision in the fourth quarter of 2013 not to actively pursue expansion and/or development of such landfills. These charges were primarily associated with two landfills in our Eastern Canada Area, which are no longer accepting waste. We had previously concluded that receipt of permits for these landfills was probable. However, in connection with our asset rationalization and capital allocation analysis, which was influenced, in part, by our acquisition of RCI, we determined that the future costs to construct these landfills could be avoided as we are able to allocate disposal that would have gone to these landfills to other facilities and not materially impact operations. As a result of management’s decision, we determined that the landfill assets were no longer able to be recovered by the undiscounted cash flows attributable to these assets. As such, we wrote them down to their estimated fair values using a market approach considering the highest and best use of the assets.  

   •   Waste-to-energy impairments — We recognized $144 million of impairment charges relating to three waste-to-energy facilities, primarily as a result of closure or anticipated closure due to continued difficulty securing sufficient volumes to operate the plants at capacity and the prospect of additional capacity entering the market where the largest facility is located. We wrote down the carrying value of our facilities to their estimated fair value using a market approach.  

   •   Other impairments — The remainder of our 2013 charges were attributable to (i) $31 million of charges to impair various recycling assets; (ii) $20 million of charges to write down assets related to a majority-owned waste diversion technology company and (iii) a $15 million charge to write down the carrying value of an oil and gas property to its estimated fair value.  

   •   Divestitures — Partially offsetting these charges were $8 million of net gains on divestitures.  

50  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations —Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions — Asset Impairments for additional information related to the accounting policy and analysis involved in identifying and calculating impairments.  

In addition to the impairments discussed above, we are continuing to evaluate opportunities associated with the sale or discontinued use of assets that may no longer meet our strategic objectives or are underperforming. Accordingly, it is possible that additional charges may be recorded as assets are sold or become held-for-sale.  

Income from Operations  

The following table summarizes income from operations for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison.  

All information presented has been updated to reflect our realigned segments which are discussed further in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Solid Waste — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our Solid Waste business during the three years ended December 31, 2015 are summarized below:  

   •   Our traditional Solid Waste business benefited from internal revenue growth and the impact of lower fuel prices.  

   •   Our recycling business has been negatively affected by lower market prices for recycling commodities and lower volumes. In 2014, these unfavorable drivers were offset by (i) increased efforts to reduce controllable recycling rebates paid to customers; (ii) better alignment of rebate structures to commodity prices for new recycling contracts and (iii) ongoing business improvement efforts around inbound quality control. In 2015, these benefits offset, in part, the impact of lower market prices, lower volumes, and impairment charges related to various recycling assets due to continued declines in commodity prices.  

In addition, the following items affected comparability of 2015 to 2014 within specific segments:  

   •   We recognized $51 million of net charges associated with the withdrawal from certain underfunded multiemployer pension plans in 2015 impacting all three tiers;  

   •   The unfavorable impact of foreign currency translation on the results of our Canadian operations in Tiers 1 and 2;  

   •   The unfavorable impact on our oilfield services business, primarily in Tier 2, of reduced drilling and auxiliary activities as a result of declining oil and gas prices; and  

   •   The transfer of certain sales employees from our Corporate and Other segment in 2014.  

51  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

In addition, the following items affected comparability of 2014 to 2013 within specific segments:  

   •   Net charges of $279 million, primarily related to impairments recognized in 2013. The most significant impairment charges were in our Eastern Canada Area, which is included in Tier 2, and were associated with the impairment of certain landfills as discussed above in (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items;  

   •   The loss on the sale of our Puerto Rico operations and certain other collection and landfill assets in 2014, which were included in Tier 3 and Tier 1, respectively;  

   •   Adverse weather in the first quarter of 2014 unfavorably affected income from operations, which impacted all three tiers;  

   •   The gain on the sale of certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area in 2014, which were included in Tier 2;  

   •   The accretive benefits of the RCI operations acquired in July 2013, which are included in Tier 2;  

   •   The gain on the sale of a vacant facility in 2014, which was included in Tier 3; and  

   •   A reversal of a reserve in 2014 due to a favorable litigation resolution, which was included in Tier 1.  

Wheelabrator — The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our Wheelabrator business in 2014 and 2013 were (i) a $519 million gain on sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014 and (ii) $627 million of pre-tax charges to impair goodwill and certain waste-to-energy facilities in 2013 as discussed above in Goodwill Impairments and (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items.  

Other — Our “Other” income from operations includes (i) those elements of our landfill gas-to-energy operations and third-party subcontract and administration revenues managed by our Energy and Environmental Services and Renewable Energy organizations, that are not included with the operations of our reportable segments; (ii) our recycling brokerage services and (iii) the results of investments that we are making in expanded service offerings, such as portable self-storage, long distance moving services, and fluorescent lamp recycling, and in oil and gas producing properties. In addition, our “Other” income from operations reflects the results of non-operating entities that provide financial assurance and self-insurance support for our Solid Waste.  

Significant items affecting the comparability for the periods presented include:  

   •   Net charges of $66 million, $339 million, and $59 million primarily related to impairments of oil and gas producing properties recognized in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively;  

   •   Higher costs related to remediation services in 2015;  

   •   The transfer of certain sales employees from our Corporate and Other segment in 2014; and  

   •   Improved results in our Strategic Business Solutions in 2014 and 2015.  

Corporate and Other — Significant items affecting the comparability for the periods presented include:  

   •   Restructuring costs related to our August 2014 reorganization and subsequent benefits resulting from our restructuring efforts;  

   •   Lower medical costs in 2015 driven by lower claims and reduced headcount and higher year-over-year costs in 2014;  

   •   The transfer of certain sales employees to our Solid Waste and Other segments that were included in this segment in 2014 as described above;  

   •   Continued focus on controlling costs resulting in lower professional fees, telecommunications, contract labor, and travel and entertainment in 2015;  

52  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   •   Charges for the settlement of a legal dispute and related fees in 2014;  

   •   Unfavorable adjustments in 2014 as well as favorable adjustments in 2013 related to changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to discount the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets; and  

   •   Increased risk management costs in 2015 primarily related to certain higher than anticipated auto and general liability claim settlements and favorable risk management allocation in 2014.  

Interest Expense, net  

Our interest expense, net was $385 million in 2015, $466 million in 2014 and $477 million in 2013. During 2015, the decrease in interest expense was primarily attributable to the refinancing of a significant portion of our high-coupon senior notes. As a result of the combination of a make-whole redemption of certain senior notes, cash tender offers to purchase certain senior notes and the issuance of $1.8 billion of new senior notes, we reduced the weighted average interest rate of our senior note portfolio by 1%. During 2014, the decrease in interest expense was primarily attributable to (i) the impacts that lower market interest rates had on certain of our tax-exempt debt; (ii) issuing new debt at lower fixed interest rates than debt repaid upon scheduled maturities and (iii) reduced costs associated with our letter of credit facilities due to improvements in the Company’s overall credit rating. These decreases were partially offset by increases in expense associated with our terminated interest rate swaps due to the maturity of the underlying senior notes.  

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt  

During 2015, we refinanced a significant portion of our high-coupon senior notes. As a result of the combination of a make-whole redemption of certain senior notes, cash tender offers to purchase certain senior notes and the issuance of $1.8 billion of new senior notes, we reduced the weighted average interest rate of our senior note portfolio by 1% and extended the weighted average duration of these debt obligations by three years. Additional details related to each component of the refinancing follow:  

Make-Whole Redemption — In January 2015, we repaid $947 million of WM senior notes, which comprised all of the outstanding senior notes maturing in 2015, 2017 and 2019. The repayment of these debt balances was achieved by exercising the optional redemption provisions of the notes, which required that we pay the outstanding principal plus a make-whole premium. The “Loss on early extinguishment of debt” reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 includes the $122 million of charges related to these redemptions.  

Tender Offers — During 2015, WM and WM Holdings made cash tender offers to purchase any and all of certain outstanding senior notes. The series of notes targeted in the tenders and the amounts tendered of each series are summarized below:  

   •   $449 million of WM Holdings 7.10% senior notes due 2026, of which $145 million were tendered;  

   •   $577 million of WM 7.00% senior notes due 2028, of which $182 million were tendered;  

   •   $223 million of WM 7.375% senior notes due 2029, of which $84 million were tendered;  

   •   $496 million of WM 7.75% senior notes due 2032, of which $286 million were tendered; and  

   •   $600 million of WM 6.125% senior notes due 2039, of which $326 million were tendered.  

The “Loss on early extinguishment of debt” reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 includes $430 million of charges related to these tender offers.  

53  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities  

We recognized “Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities” of $38 million, $53 million and $34 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These losses are primarily related to our noncontrolling interests in two limited liability companies established to invest in and manage low-income housing properties and a refined coal facility, as well as (i) noncontrolling investments made to support our strategic initiatives and (ii) unconsolidated trusts for final capping, closure, post-closure or environmental obligations. The tax impacts realized as a result of our investments in low-income housing properties and the refined coal facility are discussed below in Provision for Income Taxes. Refer to Notes 9 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to these investments. In 2014, we recognized an additional $11 million to write down equity method investments in waste diversion technology companies to their fair value.  

Other, net  

We recognized other, net expense of $7 million, $29 million and $74 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The expenses for 2015, 2014 and 2013 were impacted by impairment charges of $5 million, $22 million and $71 million, respectively, related to other-than-temporary declines in the value of investments in waste diversion technology companies accounted for under the cost method. We wrote down our investments to their fair value which was primarily determined using an income approach based on estimated future cash flow projections and, to a lesser extent, third-party investors’ recent transactions in these securities. Partially offsetting the 2013 charges was a $4 million gain on the sale of a similar investment. The remaining expenses recognized during the reported periods are primarily related to the impact of foreign currency translation.  

Provision for Income Taxes  

We recorded provisions for income taxes of $308 million in 2015, $413 million in 2014 and $364 million in 2013. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 29.1%, 23.6% and 73.8% for the years ended 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before income taxes; (ii) federal tax credits; (iii) adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes; (iv) the realization of state net operating losses and credits; (v) tax audit settlements and (vi) the tax implications of divestitures and impairments. The impacts of these items are summarized below:  

   •   Investment in Refined Coal Facility — Our refined coal facility investment and the resulting federal tax credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $23 million, $21 million and $20 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our refined coal facility investment.  

   •   Investment in Low-Income Housing Properties — Our low-income housing properties investment and the resulting federal tax credits reduced our provision for income taxes by $34 million, $37 million and $38 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to our low-income housing properties investment.  

   •   Other Federal Tax Credits — During 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recognized federal tax credits in addition to the tax credits realized from our investments in the refined coal facility and low-income housing properties resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $15 million, $13 million and $13 million, respectively.  

   •   Adjustments to Accruals and Related Deferred Taxes — Adjustments to our accruals and related deferred taxes due to the filing of our income tax returns and changes in state law resulted in a reduction of $18 million, a reduction of $24 million and an increase of $4 million to our provision for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

54  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   •   State Net Operating Losses and Credits — During 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recognized state net operating losses and credits resulting in a reduction to our provision for income taxes of $17 million, $16 million and $16 million, respectively.  

   •   Tax Audit Settlements — The settlement of various tax audits resulted in reductions to our provision for income taxes of $10 million, $12 million and $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  

   •   Tax Implications of Divestitures — During 2014, the Company recorded a net gain of $515 million primarily related to the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business, our Puerto Rico operations and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. Had this net gain been fully taxable, our provision for income taxes would have increased by $138 million. During 2015, the Company recorded an additional $10 million net gain primarily related to post-closing adjustments on the Wheelabrator divestiture. Had this gain been fully taxable, our provision for income taxes would have increased by $4 million. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to divestitures.  

   •   Tax Implications of Impairments — A portion of the impairment charges recognized are not deductible for tax purposes. Had the charges been fully deductible, our provision for income taxes would have been reduced by $2 million, $8 million and $235 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to asset impairments and unusual items.  

We expect our 2016 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 35.0% based on projected income before income taxes, federal tax credits and other permanent items, which is similar to prior year expectations.  

The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 was signed into law on December 18, 2015 and included an extension for five years of the bonus depreciation allowance. As a result, 50% of qualifying capital expenditures on property placed in service before January 1, 2016 were depreciated immediately. The acceleration of deductions on 2015 qualifying capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provisions had no impact on our effective income tax rate for 2015 although it will reduce our cash taxes by approximately $65 million. This reduction will be offset by increased cash taxes in subsequent periods when the deductions related to the capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken.  

Noncontrolling Interests  

Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests was $1 million in 2015 and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $40 million in 2014 and $32 million in 2013. The income for 2014 and 2013 was principally related to third parties’ equity interests in two limited liability companies (“LLCs”) that owned three waste-to-energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator business. In December 2014, we purchased the noncontrolling interests in the LLCs from the third parties in anticipation of our sale of the Wheelabrator business. The LLCs were then subsequently sold as part of the divestment of our Wheelabrator business. Refer to Notes 19 and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the sale of our Wheelabrator business and the consolidation of these variable interest entities, respectively.  

The income for 2013 includes a net loss of $10 million attributable to noncontrolling interest holders associated with the $20 million impairment charge related to a majority-owned waste diversion technology company discussed above in (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments (Other than Goodwill) and Unusual Items.  

55  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis  

We owned or operated 244 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2015 and 247 solid waste and five secure hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the expected remaining capacity, in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills, is shown below (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2015 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 46 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 21 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 49 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume.  

The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2015, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Landfills we operate through lease agreements are similar to landfills we own because we own the landfill’s operating permit and will operate the landfill for the entire lease term, which in many cases is the life of the landfill. We are usually responsible for the final capping, closure and post-closure obligations of the landfills we lease.  

 (b) For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. However, we are generally responsible for final capping, closure and post-closure obligations under the operating contracts.  

56  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits.  

 (b) We received expansion permits at six of our landfills during 2015 and eight of our landfills during 2014, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills.  

 (c) Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site-specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate; and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training.  

The tons received at our landfills in 2015 and 2014 are shown below (tons in thousands):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In 2015, we acquired two landfills, our contract expired at two landfills and we closed three landfills.  

 (b) These amounts include 1.2 million tons at both December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, that were received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes and generally were redirected from the permitted airspace to other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting and clean dirt for on-site construction projects.  

57  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2015, our closed sites management group managed 210 closed landfills.  

Landfill Assets — We capitalize various costs that we incur to prepare a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on-site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities, which are discussed further below.  

The following table reflects the total cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2015 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

As of December 31, 2015, we estimate that we will spend approximately $400 million in 2016, and approximately $900 million in 2017 and 2018 combined, for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events, and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations.  

Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities — As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance associated with accounting for asset retirement obligations and are discussed in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated.  

58  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

The following table reflects our landfill liabilities and our environmental remediation liabilities as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2015 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Landfill Costs and Expenses — As disclosed in the Operating Expenses section above, our landfill operating costs include interest accretion on asset retirement obligations, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs, and other landfill site costs. The following table summarizes these costs for each of the three years indicated (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The comparison of these costs for the reported periods has been significantly affected by accounting for changes in the risk-free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities and environmental remediation recovery assets, which is based on the rate for U.S. Treasury bonds with a term approximating the weighted average period until settlement of the underlying obligations.  

Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of “Depreciation and amortization” expense, includes the following:  

   •   the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and  

   •   the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from landfill final capping, closure and post-closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs.  

Amortization expense is recorded on a units-of-consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding asset’s airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post-closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using a landfill’s total airspace capacity. Final capping asset  

59  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 retirement costs are related to a specific final capping event and are, therefore, amortized on a per-ton basis using each discrete final capping event’s estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per-ton amortization rates.  

The following table presents our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per-ton basis:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Different per-ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 249 landfills, and per-ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post-closure activities and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per-ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company year-over-year.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) final capping, closure and post-closure activities at our landfills; (vi) the repayment of debt and discharging of other obligations and (vii) capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments in support of our strategic growth plans. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through dividend payments, and we have also returned value to our shareholders through share repurchases.  

Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations  

The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

60  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Cash and cash equivalents — Cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2014, included a portion of the $1.95 billion of proceeds from the divestiture of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014. In 2015, we have primarily allocated available cash to the acquisition of Deffenbaugh, repurchasing shares and paying premiums on the early extinguishment of debt. Discussion of these activities is included in Notes 19, 15 and 7, respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Restricted trust and escrow accounts — The decrease in final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation funds from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015 is primarily due to the closure of certain trust and escrow accounts which were converted to other forms of financial assurance. Other restricted trust and escrow accounts at December 31, 2014 included the funding of a legal settlement which was paid in full in the second quarter of 2015.  

Debt — We use long-term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax-exempt bonds to borrow on a long-term basis, but we also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2015 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015 were primarily attributable to (i) net debt repayments of $427 million and (ii) the impacts of other non-cash changes in our debt balances due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps, foreign currency translation, and discounts.  

As of December 31, 2015, we had $732 million of debt maturing within the next 12 months, including (i) $500 million of 2.6% senior notes that mature in September 2016; (ii) $146 million of tax-exempt bonds and (iii) $20 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility. In addition, $316 million of tax-exempt bonds have term interest rate periods subject to repricing within the next 12 months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. We have classified the $20 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility as long-term because we intend and have the ability to refinance or maintain these borrowings on a long-term basis. Based on our intent and ability to refinance other portions of our current obligations on a long-term basis as of December 31, 2015, including through use of forecasted available capacity under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, we have classified an additional $775 million of debt as long-term. The remaining $253 million is classified as current obligations.  

During 2015, we refinanced a significant portion of our high-coupon senior notes in order to reduce the weighted average interest rate and extend the weighted average duration of our debt balances. We achieved this through a combination of a make-whole redemption of certain senior notes, cash tender offers to purchase certain senior notes and the issuance of $1.8 billion of new senior notes consisting of:  

   •   $600 million of 3.125% senior notes due March 1, 2025;  

   •   $450 million of 3.90% senior notes due March 1, 2035; and  

   •   $750 million of 4.10% senior notes due March 1, 2045.  

The net proceeds from these debt issuances were $1.78 billion. The Company used the proceeds from the 2025 notes for general corporate purposes. The proceeds from the 2035 notes and the 2045 notes were used to pay the purchase price and accrued interest for the notes redeemed through the tender offers discussed above and for general corporate purposes. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information related to the debt transactions.  

61  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions) at December 31, categorized by type of facility:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) In July 2015, we amended and restated our revolving credit facility extending the term through July 2020. At December 31, 2015, we had $20 million of outstanding borrowings and $831 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,399 million.  

 (b) As of December 31, 2015, we had an aggregate committed capacity of $150 million under letter of credit facilities with terms extending through December 2018. This letter of credit capacity was fully utilized as of December 31, 2015.  

 (c) These letters of credit are outstanding under various arrangements that do not obligate the counterparty to provide a committed capacity.  

Summary of Cash Flow Activity  

The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows in 2015 to 2014 are summarized below:  

   •   Increased earnings from our traditional Solid Waste business — In 2015, we saw an increase in cash earnings from our traditional Solid Waste business which was enhanced by acquisitions and corporate overhead cost reductions. These cash flow improvements were slightly offset by a decrease in earnings of our recycling operations.  

   •   Cash flow of divested businesses — The divestiture of Wheelabrator in December 2014 coupled with the sale of other Solid Waste businesses throughout 2014 affected the year-over-year comparison by approximately $140 million.  

   •   Decrease in tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was $329 million lower on a year-over-year basis, largely driven by (i) lower year-over-year pre-tax earnings primarily due to the loss on early extinguishment of debt in the first quarter of 2015 and (ii) the tax implications and related impacts of divestitures and impairments.  

   •   Decrease in interest payments — Cash paid for interest decreased $77 million, primarily due to the refinancing of a significant portion of our high-coupon senior notes during the first quarter of 2015, which is discussed further in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   •   Multiemployer pension plan settlements — In 2015, we paid approximately $60 million for multiemployer pension plan settlements primarily associated with the Central States, Southeast and Southwest Areas Pension Plan and the Teamsters Employers Local 945 Pension Fund. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

62  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   •   Increase in bonus payments — Payments for our annual incentive plans are typically made in the first quarter of the year based on prior year performance. Our cash flow from operations was unfavorably impacted by approximately $65 million on a year-over-year basis, as the annual incentive plan payments made in the first quarter of 2015 were significantly higher than payments made in the first quarter of 2014.  

   •   Forward-starting swaps — During the first quarter of 2014, the forward-starting interest rate swaps associated with the anticipated issuance of senior notes in 2014 matured, and we paid cash of $36 million to settle the liabilities related to the swaps, as discussed further in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This cash payment was classified as a change in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   •   Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was unfavorably impacted on a year-over-year basis by changes in our assets and liabilities accounts, particularly non-trade related items including payroll and incentive accruals. However, we did experience continued improvement in both trade accounts receivable and accounts payable. Although our working capital changes may vary from year-to-year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments.  

The most significant items affecting the comparisons of our operating cash flows in 2014 as compared to 2013 are summarized below:  

   •   Increase in earnings — Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization, increased by $1.2 billion, on a year-over-year basis. Certain of the more significant drivers of our earnings improvement include:  

   •   Lower non-cash impairment charges of $652 million in 2014 as compared to 2013; and  

   •   The net gain on the sale of our Wheelabrator business of $519 million in 2014.  

After considering these items, and certain other non-cash items included in our comparative results, our earnings drove an improvement in our cash flows from operating activities of approximately $100 million.  

   •   Increase in tax payments — Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, was approximately $242 million higher on a year-over-year basis due to (i) higher pre-tax earnings; (ii) approximately $210 million anticipated overpayment during 2014, when comparing our year-end tax provisions to payments made throughout the year and (iii) taxes associated with the divestiture of our Puerto Rico operations.  

   •   Forward-starting swaps — During 2014, the forward-starting interest rate swaps associated with the anticipated issuance of senior notes in 2014 matured, and we paid cash of $36 million to settle the liabilities related to the swaps. This cash payment has been classified as a change in “Accounts payable and accrued liabilities” within “Net cash provided by operating activities” in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

   •   Changes in other operating assets and liabilities, net of effects from business acquisitions and divestitures — Our cash flow from operations was favorably impacted on a year-over-year basis by changes in our working capital accounts. Although our working capital changes may vary from year to year, they are typically driven by changes in accounts receivable, which are affected by both revenue changes and timing of payments received, and accounts payable changes, which are affected by both cost changes and timing of payments.  

63  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   •   Capital expenditures — We used $1,233 million during 2015 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,151 million in 2014 and $1,271 million in 2013. The increase in capital expenditures in 2015 is primarily attributable to new business opportunities, growth in our existing business and the timing of replacement of aging assets.  

   •   Proceeds from divestitures — Proceeds from divestitures and other assets (net of cash divested) were $145 million in 2015, $2,253 million in 2014 and $138 million in 2013. In 2015, $79 million of these divestitures were made as part of our continuous focus on improving or divesting certain non-strategic or underperforming operations, with the remaining amounts generally related to the sale of fixed assets. In 2014, our proceeds from divestitures were primarily related to the sale of our Wheelabrator business for $1.95 billion and, to a lesser extent, the sale of our Puerto Rico operations and certain landfill and collection operations in our Eastern Canada Area. In 2013, our proceeds from divestitures included approximately $41 million related to oil and gas producing properties and $14 million related to certain of our medical waste service operations and a transfer station in our Greater Mid-Atlantic Area. The remaining amount reported for 2013, generally relates to the sale of fixed assets.  

   •   Acquisitions — Our spending on acquisitions was $554 million in 2015 compared to $35 million in 2014 and $724 million in 2013. In 2015, $415 million of our spending on acquisitions was for the collection and disposal operations of Deffenbaugh. The remainder of our 2015 acquisition spending primarily related to our Solid Waste business. All of our 2014 acquisitions related to our Solid Waste business. In 2013, our acquisitions consisted primarily of the recycling operations of Greenstar, for which we paid $170 million, and substantially all of the assets of RCI, for which we paid $481 million. The remainder of our 2013 acquisitions related to our Solid Waste business and energy services operations. See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our acquisitions. We continue to focus on accretive acquisitions and growth opportunities that will enhance and expand our existing service offerings.  

   •   Investments in unconsolidated entities — We made $20 million, $33 million and $33 million of cash investments in unconsolidated entities during 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In 2015, our investments primarily consisted of additional capital contributions associated with our investment in a refined coal facility, which generates federal tax credits. In 2014 and 2013, our investments primarily related to additional capital contributions associated with our investment in a refined coal facility and waste diversion technology companies.  

   •   Net receipts from restricted funds — Net cash received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts contributed $51 million to our investing activities in 2015 compared with $19 million in 2014 and $71 million in 2013. In 2015, these activities were largely related to our replacement of funded trust and escrow accounts with alternative forms of financial assurance.  

   •   Other — Net cash provided by our other investing activities was $3 million during 2015. Net cash used by our other investing activities of $58 million and $81 million during 2014 and 2013, respectively, was primarily associated with the funding of notes receivable associated with Wheelabrator’s investments in the U.K., prior to the sale of our Wheelabrator business in December 2014.  

Net Cash Used in Financing Activities — The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below:  

   •   Share repurchases — For the periods presented, all share repurchases have been made in accordance with financial plans approved by our Board of Directors.  

We paid $600 million for share repurchases during both 2015 and 2014 and $239 million for share repurchases during 2013. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

64  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

We announced in December 2015 that the Board of Directors refreshed its prior authorization of up to $1 billion in future share repurchases. Any future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management, and will depend on factors similar to those considered by the Board of Directors in making dividend declarations.  

   •   Dividend payments — For the periods presented, all dividends have been declared and paid in accordance with financial plans approved by our Board of Directors.  

We paid an aggregate of $695 million in cash dividends during 2015, compared with $693 million in 2014, and $683 million in 2013. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.365 in 2013, to $0.375 in 2014, and to $0.385 in 2015 and has been offset, in part, by a reduction in our common stock outstanding as a result of our share repurchase programs.  

In December 2015, we announced that our Board of Directors expects to increase the quarterly dividend from $0.385 to $0.41 per share for dividends declared in 2016. However, all future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future business plans and other factors the Board may deem relevant.  

   •   Proceeds from the exercise of common stock options — The exercise of common stock options generated $77 million of financing cash inflows during 2015 compared with $93 million during 2014 and $132 million during 2013. The year-over-year changes are generally due to the level of stock options exercised throughout the year, which is primarily driven by changes in the Company’s stock price and the number of exercisable options.  

   •   Debt borrowings (repayments) — Net debt repayments were $427 million in 2015 and $751 million in 2014 compared to net debt borrowings of $155 million in 2013. The following summarizes our cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

For the year ended December 31, 2015, non-cash financing activities included $262 million of tax-exempt bond refundings and reissuances. For the year ended December 31, 2013, non-cash financing activities included proceeds from tax-exempt borrowings, net of principal payments made directly from trust funds, of $99 million. During 2014, we did not have any significant non-cash financing activities.  

Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our debt borrowings and repayments.  

65  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

   •   Premiums paid on early extinguishment of debt — Premiums paid on early extinguishment of debt of $555 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 are primarily related to (i) make-whole premiums paid on certain senior notes that the Company decided to redeem in advance of their scheduled maturities and (ii) premiums paid to tender certain high-coupon senior notes. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these transactions.  

   •   Acquisitions of and distributions paid to noncontrolling interests — The purchases of and distributions paid to our noncontrolling interests were $1 million, $125 million and $59 million in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The increase during 2014 compared to 2013 is primarily attributable to the purchase of the noncontrolling interests in the LLCs related to our waste-to-energy facilities in December 2014 for $91 million, in anticipation of our sale of our Wheelabrator business. The LLCs were then subsequently sold as part of the divestment. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these LLCs.  

Summary of Contractual Obligations  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2015 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post-closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills.  

 (b) The amounts reported here represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long-term debt, excluding related interest. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding interest rates.  

 (c) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2015 include $316 million of tax-exempt bonds subject to repricing within the next 12 months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re-offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 (d) Our recorded debt obligations include non-cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods.  

 (e)  Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed  

66  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

    in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

 (f) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For contracts that require us to purchase minimum quantities of goods or services, we have estimated our future minimum obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are not necessarily indicative of our actual cash flow obligations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations.  

Liquidity Impacts of Income Tax Items  

Cash Taxes — Our tax payments in 2015, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity-based transactions, were $329 million lower than 2014, primarily due to (i) lower pre-tax earnings due to the loss on early extinguishment of debt and (ii) the tax implications and related impacts of divestitures and impairments.  

Bonus Depreciation — The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 was signed into law on December 18, 2015 and included an extension for five years of the bonus depreciation allowance. As a result, 50% of qualifying capital expenditures on property placed in service before January 1, 2016 were depreciated immediately. The acceleration of deductions on 2015 qualifying capital expenditures resulting from the bonus depreciation provisions had no impact on our effective income tax rate for 2015 although it will reduce our cash taxes by approximately $65 million. This reduction will be offset by increased cash taxes in subsequent periods when the deductions related to the capital expenditures would have otherwise been taken. Overall, the effect of all applicable years’ bonus depreciation programs resulted in increased cash taxes of approximately $25 million in 2015.  

Uncertain Tax Positions — We have liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are included as a component of long-term “Other liabilities” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets because the Company does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next 12 months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we might make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but we do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. As of December 31, 2015, we anticipate that approximately $36 million of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, and $5 million of related tax assets may be reversed within the next 12 months. The anticipated reversals primarily relate to the deductibility and exclusion from gross income of certain federal tax items and other miscellaneous state tax items, each of which is individually insignificant. The recognition of the unrecognized tax benefits is expected to result from the filing of our tax returns, audit settlements or the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations period.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

We have financial interests in unconsolidated variable interest entities as discussed in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2015, nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity.  

New Accounting Standard Pending Adoption  

In May 2014, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition. The amended guidance requires companies to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to  

67  

Table of Contents 

Index to Financial Statements 

 customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. Additionally, the amendments will require enhanced qualitative and quantitative disclosures regarding customer contracts. The amended authoritative guidance associated with revenue recognition is effective for the Company on January 1, 2018. The amended guidance may be applied retrospectively for all periods presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the amended guidance recognized at the date of initial application. We are in the process of assessing the provisions of the amended guidance and have not determined whether the adoption will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.  

Inflation  

While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of diesel fuel, have affected our income from operations margins in recent years, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2015, approximately 30% of our collection revenues are generated under long-term agreements with price adjustments based on various indices intended to measure inflation. Additionally, management’s estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.