PART I  

 Item 1. Business.  

M&T Bank Corporation (“Registrant” or “M&T”) is a New York business corporation which is registered as a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHCA”) and as a bank holding company (“BHC”) under Article III-A of the New York Banking Law (“Banking Law”). The principal executive offices of the Registrant are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. The Registrant was incorporated in November 1969. The Registrant and its direct and indirect subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein as the “Company.” As of December 31, 2013 the Company had consolidated total assets of $85.2 billion, deposits of $67.1 billion and shareholders’ equity of $11.3 billion. The Company had 14,629 full-time and 1,264 part-time employees as of December 31, 2013.  

At December 31, 2013, the Registrant had two wholly owned bank subsidiaries: M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, National Association (“Wilmington Trust, N.A.”). The banks collectively offer a wide range of retail and commercial banking, trust and wealth management, and investment services to their customers. At December 31, 2013, M&T Bank represented 99% of consolidated assets of the Company.  

The Company from time to time considers acquiring banks, thrift institutions, branch offices of banks or thrift institutions, or other businesses within markets currently served by the Company or in other locations that would complement the Company’s business or its geographic reach. The Company has pursued acquisition opportunities in the past, continues to review different opportunities, including the possibility of major acquisitions, and intends to continue this practice.  

Subsidiaries  

M&T Bank is a banking corporation that is incorporated under the laws of the State of New York. M&T Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Home Loan Bank System, and its deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to applicable limits. M&T acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock of M&T Bank in December 1969. The stock of M&T Bank represents a major asset of M&T. M&T Bank operates under a charter granted by the State of New York in 1892, and the continuity of its banking business is traced to the organization of the Manufacturers and Traders Bank in 1856. The principal executive offices of M&T Bank are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203. As of December 31, 2013, M&T Bank had 720 domestic banking offices located in New York State, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia, a full-service commercial banking office in Ontario, Canada, and an office in George Town, Cayman Islands. As of December 31, 2013, M&T Bank had consolidated total assets of $84.4 billion, deposits of $68.2 billion and shareholder’s equity of $11.0 billion. The deposit liabilities of M&T Bank are insured by the FDIC through its Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”). As a commercial bank, M&T Bank offers a broad range of financial services to a diverse base of consumers, businesses, professional clients, governmental entities and financial institutions located in its markets. Lending is largely focused on consumers residing in New York State, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, Delaware and Washington, D.C., and on small and medium-size businesses based in those areas, although loans are originated through lending offices in other states and in Ontario, Canada. In addition, the Company conducts lending activities in various states through other subsidiaries. Trust and other fiduciary services are offered by M&T Bank and through its wholly owned subsidiary, Wilmington Trust Company. M&T Bank and certain of its subsidiaries also offer commercial mortgage loans secured by income producing properties or properties used by borrowers in a trade or business. Additional financial services are provided through other operating subsidiaries of the Company.  

Wilmington Trust, N.A., a national banking association and a member of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, commenced operations on October 2, 1995. The deposit liabilities of Wilmington Trust, N.A. are insured by the FDIC through the DIF. The main office of Wilmington Trust, N.A. is located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware, 19890. A second office is located in Oakfield, New York. Wilmington Trust, N.A. offers various trust and wealth management services. Historically, Wilmington Trust, N.A. offered selected deposit and loan products on a nationwide basis, through direct mail, telephone marketing techniques and the Internet. As of December 31, 2013, Wilmington Trust, N.A. had total assets of $1.7 billion, deposits of $1.1 billion and shareholder’s equity of $422 million.  

Wilmington Trust Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Delaware bank and trust company in March 1901 and amended its charter in July 2011 to become a nondepository trust company. Wilmington Trust Company provides a variety of Delaware based trust, fiduciary and custodial services to its clients. As of December 31, 2013, Wilmington Trust Company had  

4  

Table of Contents 

 total assets of $1.1 billion and shareholder’s equity of $544 million. Revenues of Wilmington Trust Company were $119 million in 2013. The headquarters of Wilmington Trust Company are located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890.  

M&T Life Insurance Company (“M&T Life Insurance”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T, was incorporated as an Arizona business corporation in January 1984. M&T Life Insurance is a credit reinsurer which reinsures credit life and accident and health insurance purchased by the Company’s consumer loan customers. As of December 31, 2013, M&T Life Insurance had assets of $17 million and shareholder’s equity of $16 million. M&T Life Insurance recorded revenues of $456 thousand during 2013. Headquarters of M&T Life Insurance are located at 101 North First Avenue, Phoenix, Arizona 85003.  

M&T Insurance Agency, Inc. (“M&T Insurance Agency”), a wholly owned insurance agency subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a New York corporation in March 1955. M&T Insurance Agency provides insurance agency services principally to the commercial market. As of December 31, 2013, M&T Insurance Agency had assets of $52 million and shareholder’s equity of $38 million. M&T Insurance Agency recorded revenues of $25 million during 2013. The headquarters of M&T Insurance Agency are located at 285 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, New York 14202.  

M&T Mortgage Reinsurance Company, Inc. (“M&T Reinsurance”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Vermont business corporation in July 1999. M&T Reinsurance enters into reinsurance contracts with insurance companies who insure against the risk of a mortgage borrower’s payment default in connection with M&T Bank-related mortgage loans. M&T Reinsurance receives a share of the premium for those policies in exchange for accepting a portion of the insurer’s risk of borrower default. As of December 31, 2013, M&T Reinsurance had assets of $20 million and shareholder’s equity of $14 million. M&T Reinsurance recorded approximately $2 million of revenue during 2013. M&T Reinsurance’s principal and registered office is at 148 College Street, Burlington, Vermont 05401.  

M&T Real Estate Trust (“M&T Real Estate”) is a Maryland Real Estate Investment Trust that was formed through the merger of two separate subsidiaries, but traces its origin to the incorporation of M&T Real Estate, Inc. in July 1995. M&T Real Estate engages in commercial real estate lending and provides loan servicing to M&T Bank. As of December 31, 2013, M&T Real Estate had assets of $17.8 billion, common shareholder’s equity of $15.9 billion, and preferred shareholders’ equity, consisting of 9% fixed-rate preferred stock (par value $1,000), of $1 million. All of the outstanding common stock and 89% of the preferred stock of M&T Real Estate is owned by M&T Bank. The remaining 11% of M&T Real Estate’s outstanding preferred stock is owned by officers or former officers of the Company. M&T Real Estate recorded $767 million of revenue in 2013. The headquarters of M&T Real Estate are located at M&T Center, One Fountain Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.  

M&T Realty Capital Corporation (“M&T Realty Capital”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank, was incorporated as a Maryland corporation in October 1973. M&T Realty Capital engages in multifamily commercial real estate lending and provides loan servicing to purchasers of the loans it originates. As of December 31, 2013, M&T Realty Capital serviced $11.4 billion of commercial mortgage loans for non-affiliates and had assets of $492 million and shareholder’s equity of $85 million. M&T Realty Capital recorded revenues of $97 million in 2013. The headquarters of M&T Realty Capital are located at 25 South Charles Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.  

M&T Securities, Inc. (“M&T Securities”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank that was incorporated as a New York business corporation in November 1985. M&T Securities is registered as a broker/dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended (the “Investment Advisors Act”). M&T Securities is licensed as a life insurance agent in each state where M&T Bank operates branch offices and in a number of other states. It provides securities brokerage, investment advisory and insurance services. As of December 31, 2013, M&T Securities had assets of $65 million and shareholder’s equity of $44 million. M&T Securities recorded $103 million of revenue during 2013. The headquarters of M&T Securities are located at One M&T Plaza, Buffalo, New York 14203.  

Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc. (“WT Investment Advisors”), a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T Bank and formerly known as MTB Investment Advisors prior to its name change on January 10, 2012, was incorporated as a Maryland corporation on June 30, 1995. WT Investment Advisors, a registered investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act, serves as investment advisor to the Wilmington Funds, a family of proprietary mutual funds, and institutional clients. As of December 31, 2013, WT Investment Advisors had assets of $34 million and shareholder’s equity of $27 million. WT Investment Advisors recorded revenues of $45 million in 2013. The headquarters of WT Investment Advisors are located at 100 East Pratt Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202.  

5  

Table of Contents 

Wilmington Funds Management Corporation (“Wilmington Funds Management”), formerly known as Rodney Square Management Corporation, is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T that was incorporated in September 1981 as a Delaware corporation. Wilmington Funds Management is registered as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act and serves as the investment advisor to the Wilmington Funds. Wilmington Funds Management had assets of $11 million and shareholder’s equity of $10 million as of December 31, 2013. Wilmington Funds Management recorded revenues of $19 million in 2013. The headquarters of Wilmington Funds Management are located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890.  

Wilmington Trust Investment Management, LLC (“WTIM”) is a wholly owned subsidiary of M&T and was incorporated in December 2001 as a Georgia limited liability company. WTIM is a registered investment advisor under the Investment Advisors Act and provides investment management services to clients, including certain private funds. As of December 31, 2013, WTIM has assets of $23 million and shareholder’s equity of $23 million. WTIM recorded revenues of $7 million in 2013. WTIM’s headquarters is located at Terminus 27th Floor, 3280 Peachtree Road N.E., Atlanta, Georgia 30305.  

The Registrant and its banking subsidiaries have a number of other special-purpose or inactive subsidiaries. These other subsidiaries did not represent, individually and collectively, a significant portion of the Company’s consolidated assets, net income and shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2013.  

Segment Information, Principal Products/Services and Foreign Operations  

Information about the Registrant’s business segments is included in note 22 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and is further discussed in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” The Registrant’s reportable segments have been determined based upon its internal profitability reporting system, which is organized by strategic business unit. Certain strategic business units have been combined for segment information reporting purposes where the nature of the products and services, the type of customer and the distribution of those products and services are similar. The reportable segments are Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Commercial Real Estate, Discretionary Portfolio, Residential Mortgage Banking and Retail Banking. The Company’s international activities are discussed in note 17 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

The only activities that, as a class, contributed 10% or more of the sum of consolidated interest income and other income in any of the last three years were interest on loans, trust income and fees for providing deposit account services. The amount of income from such sources during those years is set forth on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Income filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Supervision and Regulation of the Company  

M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to bank and financial holding companies and their subsidiaries. Regulation of financial institutions such as M&T and its subsidiaries is intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking and financial system as a whole, and generally is not intended for the protection of shareholders, investors or creditors other than insured depositors. Described below are material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to M&T and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described.  

Overview  

M&T is registered with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board System (the “Federal Reserve Board”) as a BHC under the BHCA. As such, M&T and its subsidiaries are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHCA and the regulations of the Federal Reserve Board.  

In general, the BHCA limits the business of a BHC to banking, managing or controlling banks and other activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, bank holding companies that qualify and elect to be financial holding companies may engage in any activity, or acquire and retain the shares of a company engaged in any activity, that is either (i) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board, by regulation or order, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury) or (ii) complementary to a  

6  

Table of Contents 

 financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments.  

To maintain financial holding company status, a financial holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be “well capitalized” and “well managed.” M&T became a financial holding company on March 1, 2011. If a financial holding company fails to continue to meet any of the prerequisites for financial holding company status, the company must enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Board to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements. Under such agreement, the noncompliant financial holding company generally may not commence any additional activity or acquire shares of any company pursuant to the financial holding company provisions of the BHCA, without prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. If the company does not return to compliance within 180 days, the Federal Reserve Board may order the company to divest its subsidiary banks or the company may discontinue or divest investments in companies engaged in activities permissible only for a BHC electing to be treated as a financial holding company. In order for a financial holding company to commence any new activity or to acquire a company engaged in any activity pursuant to the financial holding company provisions of the BHCA, each insured depository institution subsidiary of the financial holding company also must have at least a “satisfactory” rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the “CRA”). See the section captioned “Community Reinvestment Act” included elsewhere in this item.  

Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which, in addition to the broad supervisory authority that the Federal Reserve Board has over both the banking and non-banking activities of bank holding companies, the federal banking agencies regulate the banking activities of bank holding companies, banks and savings associations and subsidiaries of the foregoing, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) regulates their securities activities, and state insurance regulators regulate their insurance activities.  

Recent Developments  

The events of the past few years have led to numerous new laws in the United States and internationally for financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act” or “Dodd-Frank”), which was enacted in July 2010, significantly restructures the financial regulatory regime in the United States and provides for enhanced supervision and prudential standards for, among other things, bank holding companies, like M&T, that have total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for the Company’s businesses will depend to a large extent on the manner in which rules adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act are implemented by the primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies as well as potential changes in market practices and structures in response to the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act and financial reforms in other jurisdictions.  

The Dodd-Frank Act broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Beginning in the second quarter of 2011, assessments are based on average consolidated total assets less average Tier 1 capital and certain allowable deductions of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009.  

The legislation also requires that publicly traded companies give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The Dodd-Frank Act also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded.  

The Dodd-Frank Act established a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (“CFPB”) with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The CFPB has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets.  

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act, among other things:  

   —    weakened the federal preemption rules that have been applicable for national banks and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce federal consumer protection laws;  

7  

Table of Contents 

   —    amended the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (“EFTA”) which resulted in, among other things, the Federal Reserve Board issuing rules aimed at limiting debit-card interchange fees;  

   —    applied the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies;  

   —    provided for an increase in the FDIC assessment for depository institutions with assets of $10 billion or more and increased the minimum reserve ratio for the deposit insurance fund from 1.15% to 1.35%;  

   —    imposed comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market, which would include certain provisions that would effectively prohibit insured depository institutions from conducting certain derivatives businesses in the institution itself;  

   —    repealed the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction and other accounts;  

   —    provided mortgage reform provisions regarding a customer’s ability to repay, restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain other revisions; and  

   —    created the Financial Stability Oversight Council, which will recommend to the Federal Reserve Board increasingly strict rules for capital, leverage, liquidity, risk management and other requirements as companies grow in size and complexity.  

Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards  

Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act directed the Federal Reserve Board to enact enhanced prudential standards applicable to foreign banking organizations and bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. On February 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve Board adopted amendments to Regulation YY to implement certain of the required enhanced prudential standards. These enhanced prudential standards, which are intended to help increase the resiliency of the operations of these organizations, include liquidity requirements, requirements for overall risk management (including establishing a risk committee), and a 15-to-1 debt-to-equity limit for companies that the Financial Stability Oversight Council has determined pose a grave threat to financial stability. M&T will have to comply with the liquidity requirements and risk management requirements by January 1, 2015. The Federal Reserve Board has not yet adopted final single counterparty credit limits or early remediation requirements.  

The rule addresses a diverse array of regulatory areas, each of which is highly complex. In some instances they implement new financial regulatory requirements and in other instances they overlap with regulatory reforms currently in existence (such as the Basel III capital and liquidity reforms discussed later in this section). M&T is analyzing the impact of the final rule on its businesses; however, the full impact will not be known until the rule and other regulatory initiatives that overlap with the final rule can be analyzed.  

Volcker Rule  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal financial regulatory agencies to adopt rules that prohibit banks and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and investing in and sponsoring certain unregistered investment companies (defined as hedge funds and private equity funds). The statutory provision is commonly called the “Volcker Rule.” On December 10, 2013, the federal banking regulators and the SEC adopted final rules to implement the Volcker Rule. The Company believes that it does not engage in any significant amount of proprietary trading as defined in the Volcker Rule and that, although it may be required by the covered funds provisions to divest certain investments by the end of the compliance period, the Volcker Rule is not expected to have a significant effect on M&T’s financial condition or its results of operations. Although the Volcker Rule became effective on July 21, 2012 and the final rules are effective April 1, 2014, in connection with the adoption of the final rules on December 10, 2013 by the responsible agencies, the Federal Reserve issued an order extending the period during which institutions have to conform their activities and investments to the requirements of the Volcker Rule to July 21, 2015.  

8  

Table of Contents 

Dividends  

M&T is a legal entity separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Historically, the majority of M&T’s revenue has been from dividends paid to M&T by its subsidiary banks. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are subject, under one or more of the banking laws, to restrictions on the amount of dividends they may declare and pay. Future dividend payments to M&T by its subsidiary banks will be dependent on a number of factors, including the earnings and financial condition of each such bank, and are subject to the limitations referred to in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and to other statutory powers of bank regulatory agencies.  

An insured depository institution is prohibited from making any capital distribution to its owner, including any dividend, if, after making such distribution, the depository institution fails to meet the required minimum level for any relevant capital measure, including the risk-based capital adequacy and leverage standards discussed herein.  

Dividend payments by M&T to its shareholders and stock repurchases by M&T are subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve Board. As described below in this section under “Federal Reserve Board’s Capital Plan Review,” dividends and stock repurchases generally may only be paid or made under a capital plan as to which the Federal Reserve Board has not objected.  

Supervision and Regulation of M&T Bank’s Subsidiaries  

M&T Bank has a number of subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are subject to the laws and regulations of both the federal government and the various states in which they conduct business. For example, M&T Securities is regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and state securities regulators.  

Capital Requirements  

M&T and its subsidiary banks are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the federal banking agencies. The current risk-based capital standards applicable to M&T and its subsidiary banks are based on the 1988 Capital Accord, known as Basel I, of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). However, the federal banking agencies have recently adopted rules implementing the Basel III framework that will replace these rules for M&T and its subsidiary banks effective January 1, 2015.  

Basel I Risk-based Capital Standards. The Basel I risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in credit and market risk profiles among bank and financial holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items.  

The minimum guideline for the ratio of total capital (“Total Capital”) to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8.0%. At least half of the Total Capital must be “Tier 1 Capital,” which currently consists of qualifying common equity, qualifying perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), minority interests relating to qualifying common or non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by a consolidated U.S. depository institution or foreign bank subsidiary, and certain “restricted core capital elements,” as discussed below, less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Currently, “Tier 2 Capital” may consist of, among other things, qualifying subordinated debt, mandatorily convertible debt securities, preferred stock and trust preferred securities not included in the definition of Tier 1 Capital, and a limited amount of the allowance for loan losses. Non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, trust preferred securities and other so-called “restricted core capital elements” are currently limited to 25% of Tier 1 Capital. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, trust preferred securities will be phased-out of the definition of Tier 1 Capital of bank holding companies having consolidated assets exceeding $500 million, such that in 2015 25% of trust preferred securities will be includable in Tier 1 Capital and none will be includable beginning in 2016.  

The minimum guideline to be considered well-capitalized for Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital is 6.0% and 10.0%, respectively. At December 31, 2013, M&T’s consolidated Tier 1 Capital ratio was 12.00%, and its Total Capital ratio was 15.07%. The elements currently comprising Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 Capital and the minimum Tier 1 Capital and Total Capital ratios may in the future be subject to change, as discussed in greater detail below.  

9  

Table of Contents 

Bank holding companies and banks are also currently required to comply with minimum leverage ratio requirements. The leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier 1 capital to its total adjusted quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes). The requirements necessitate a minimum leverage ratio of 3.0% for bank holding companies and member banks that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the appropriate federal regulatory authority’s risk adjusted measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies and member banks are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0%, unless a different minimum is specified by an appropriate regulatory authority. In addition, for a depository institution to be considered “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, its leverage ratio must be at least 5.0%. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised M&T or its subsidiary banks of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to them.  

Basel II Standards. In 2004, the Basel Committee published a new set of risk-based capital standards (“Basel II”) in order to update Basel I. Basel II provides two approaches for setting capital standards for credit risk — an internal ratings-based approach tailored to individual institutions’ circumstances and a standardized approach that bases risk-weighting on external credit assessments to a much greater extent than permitted in the existing risk-based capital guidelines. Basel II also would set capital requirements for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for market risk exposures. A definitive final rule for implementing the advanced approaches of Basel II in the United States, which applies only to internationally active banking organizations, or “core banks” (defined as those with consolidated total assets of $250 billion or more or consolidated on-balance sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion or more) became effective on April 1, 2008. Other U.S. banking organizations may elect to adopt the requirements of this rule (if they meet applicable qualification requirements), but are not required to comply. The rule also allows a banking organization’s primary federal supervisor to determine that application of the rule would not be appropriate in light of the bank’s asset size, level of complexity, risk profile or scope of operations. Neither M&T Bank nor Wilmington Trust, N.A. is currently required to comply with Basel II.   

Basel III and the New Capital Rules. In July 2013, the federal banking agencies approved final rules (the “New Capital Rules”) establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The New Capital Rules generally implement the Basel Committee’s December 2010 final capital framework referred to as “Basel III” for strengthening international capital standards. The New Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital requirements applicable to bank holding companies and their depository institution subsidiaries, including M&T, M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A., as compared to the current U.S. general risk-based capital rules. The New Capital Rules revise the definitions and the components of regulatory capital, as well as address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions’ regulatory capital ratios. The New Capital Rules also address asset risk weights and other matters affecting the denominator in banking institutions’ regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing general risk-weighting approach, which was derived from the Basel I capital accords, with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the “standardized approach” in the Basel II capital accords. In addition, the New Capital Rules implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, including the requirements of Section 939A to remove references to credit ratings from the federal agencies’ rules. The New Capital Rules are effective for M&T on January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain of their components and other provisions.  

Among other matters, the New Capital Rules: (i) introduce a new capital measure called “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”) and related regulatory capital ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets; (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting certain revised requirements; (iii) mandate that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital; and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions from and adjustments to capital as compared to existing regulations. Under the New Capital Rules, for most banking organizations, including M&T, the most common form of Additional Tier 1 capital is non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock and the most common forms of Tier 2 capital are subordinated notes and a portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses, in each case, subject to the New Capital Rules’ specific requirements.  

Pursuant to the New Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2015 will be as follows:  

   —    4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;  

   —    6.0% Tier 1 capital (that is, CET1 plus Additional Tier 1 capital) to risk-weighted assets;  

   —    8.0% Total capital (that is, Tier 1 capital plus Tier 2 capital) to risk-weighted assets; and  

   —    4.0% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”).  

10  

Table of Contents 

The New Capital Rules also introduce a new “capital conservation buffer,” composed entirely of CET1, on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. The capital conservation buffer is designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer will face constraints on dividends, equity and other capital instrument repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall. Thus, when fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the capital standards applicable to M&T will include an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1, effectively resulting in minimum ratios inclusive of the capital conservation buffer of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%; (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5% and (iv) a minimum leverage ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets (as compared to a current minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banking organizations that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the appropriate federal regulatory authority’s risk-adjusted measure for market risk). In addition, M&T is also subject to the Federal Reserve Board’s capital plan rule and supervisory Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) process, pursuant to which its ability to make capital distributions and repurchase or redeem capital securities may be limited unless M&T is able to demonstrate its ability to meet applicable minimum capital ratios and currently a 5% minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio, as well as other requirements, over a nine quarter planning horizon under a “severely adverse” macroeconomic scenario generated yearly by the federal bank regulators. See “Stress Testing and Capital Plan Review”, below.  

The New Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences that could not be realized through net operating loss carrybacks and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such items, in the aggregate, exceed 15% of CET1.  

In addition, under the current general risk-based capital rules, the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss (“AOCI”) items included in shareholders’ equity (for example, marks-to-market of securities held in the available-for-sale portfolio) under U.S. GAAP are reversed for the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Pursuant to the New Capital Rules, the effects of certain AOCI items are not excluded; however, non-advanced approaches banking organizations, including M&T, may make a one-time permanent election to continue to exclude these items. The New Capital Rules also preclude certain hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, from inclusion in bank holding companies’ Tier 1 capital, subject to phase-out in the case of bank holding companies, such as M&T, that had $15 billion or more in total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009. As a result, beginning in 2015 25% of M&T’s trust preferred securities will be includable in Tier 1 capital, and in 2016, none of M&T’s trust preferred securities will be includable in Tier 1 capital. Trust preferred securities no longer included in M&T’s Tier 1 capital may nonetheless be included as a component of Tier 2 capital on a permanent basis without phase-out and irrespective of whether such securities otherwise meet the revised definition of Tier 2 capital set forth in the New Capital Rules. In February 2014, M&T will redeem all of the 8.50% junior subordinated debentures associated with the trust preferred capital securities of M&T Capital Trust IV. Additionally, M&T issued $350 million of preferred stock during the first quarter of 2014 that qualifies as regulatory capital.  

Management believes that M&T will be able to comply with the targeted capital ratios upon implementation of the revised requirements, as finalized. More specifically, management estimates that M&T’s ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets under the New Capital Rules on a fully phased-in basis was approximately 8.98% as of December 31, 2013, reflecting a good faith estimate of the computation of CET1 and M&T’s risk-weighted assets under the methodologies set forth in the New Capital Rules.  

M&T’s regulatory capital ratios under risk-based capital rules currently in effect are presented in note 23 of Notes to Financial Statements filed herewith in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”  

Liquidity Ratios under Basel III. Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank and BHC liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. The Basel III final framework requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests. One test, referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets equal to the entity’s expected net cash outflow for a 30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to as the net stable  

11  

Table of Contents 

 funding ratio (“NSFR”), is designed to promote more medium- and long-term funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. These requirements will incent banking entities to increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the use of long-term debt as a funding source.  

In October 2013, the federal banking agencies proposed rules implementing the LCR for advanced approaches institutions and a modified version of the LCR for bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets that are not advanced approaches institutions. M&T is not an advanced approaches institution and would only be required to comply with the modified LCR, which as currently written, among other differences from the LCR, only uses a 21-day time horizon for calculating the level of required high-quality liquid assets under a stress scenario. The proposed rule would be phased in over a two-year period beginning January 1, 2015, with 80% compliance required on January 1, 2015, 90% compliance on January 1, 2016 and 100% compliance on January 1, 2017. Additionally, while the proposed rules do not implement the NSFR, the Federal Reserve Board has stated its intent to adopt a version of the NSFR as well.  

The Federal Reserve Board’s proposed heightened prudential requirements for bank holding companies with $50 billion or more of consolidated total assets also include enhanced liquidity standards, as noted above under the caption “Enhanced Supervision and Prudential Standards.”  

Capital Requirements of Subsidiary Depository Institutions. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are subject to substantially similar capital requirements as those applicable to M&T. As of December 31, 2013, both M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. were in compliance with applicable minimum capital requirements. None of M&T, M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A. has been advised by any federal banking agency of a failure to meet any specific minimum capital ratio requirement applicable to it as of December 31, 2013. Failure to meet capital guidelines could subject a bank to a variety of enforcement remedies, including the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions on its business. See “Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA”, below.  

Stress Testing and Capital Plan Review  

As part of the enhanced prudential requirements applicable to systemically important financial institutions, the Federal Reserve Board conducts annual analyses of bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets, such as M&T, to determine whether the companies have sufficient capital on a consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses in three economic and financial scenarios generated by the Federal Reserve Board: baseline, adverse and severely adverse scenarios. The Federal Reserve Board makes its methodologies and data for upcoming analyses available no later than November 15 of each year. M&T is also required to conduct its own semi-annual stress analysis (together with the Federal Reserve Board’s stress analysis, the “stress tests”) to assess the potential impact on M&T of the economic and financial conditions used as part of the Federal Reserve Board’s annual stress analysis. The Federal Reserve Board may also use, and require companies to use, additional components in the adverse and severely adverse scenarios or additional or more complex scenarios designed to capture salient risks to specific business groups. M&T Bank is also required to conduct annual stress testing using the same economic and financial scenarios as M&T and report the results to the Federal Reserve Board. A summary of results of the Federal Reserve Board’s analysis under the adverse and severely adverse stress scenarios will be publicly disclosed, and the bank holding companies subject to the rules, including M&T, must disclose a summary of the company-run severely adverse stress test results. M&T is required to include in its disclosure a summary of the severely adverse scenario stress test conducted by M&T Bank.  

In addition, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T, must submit annual capital plans for approval as part of the Federal Reserve Board’s CCAR process. Covered bank holding companies may execute capital actions, such as paying dividends and repurchasing stock, only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed and approved by the Federal Reserve Board (or any approved amendments to such plan). The comprehensive capital plans, which are currently prepared using Basel I capital guidelines, include a view of capital adequacy under four scenarios — a BHC-defined baseline scenario, a baseline scenario provided by the Federal Reserve Board, at least one BHC-defined stress scenario, and a stress scenario provided by the Federal Reserve Board. The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that these bank holding companies have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress. Each of the bank holding companies participating in the CCAR process is also required to collect and report certain related data to the Federal Reserve Board on a quarterly basis to allow the Federal Reserve Board to monitor progress against the approved capital plans. Each capital plan  

12  

Table of Contents 

 must include a view of capital adequacy under the stress test scenarios described above. The Federal Reserve Board may object to a capital plan if the plan does not show that the covered bank holding company will maintain a Tier 1 common equity ratio (as defined under the Basel I framework) of at least 5% on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions throughout the nine-quarter planning horizon covered by the capital plan. Even if such quantitative thresholds are met, the Federal Reserve Board could object to a capital plan for qualitative reasons, including inadequate assumptions in the plan, other unresolved supervisory issues or an insufficiently robust capital adequacy process, or if the capital plan would otherwise constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or violate law. The rules also provide that a covered BHC may not make a capital distribution unless after giving effect to the distribution it will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%. The CCAR rules, consistent with prior Federal Reserve Board guidance, also provide that capital plans contemplating dividend payout ratios exceeding 30% of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.  

In September 2013, the Federal Reserve Board issued an interim final rule amending its stress test and capital plan rules to clarify how bank holding companies with over $50 billion in total consolidated assets should incorporate the recently adopted New Capital Rules for the 2014 CCAR process and the supervisory and company run stress tests. Under the Federal Reserve Board’s interim final rule, such bank holding companies must both (i) project their regulatory capital ratios and meet the required minimums under the New Capital Rules for each quarter of the nine-quarter planning horizon in accordance with the minimum capital requirements that are in effect during that quarter and subject to appropriate phase-ins/phase-outs under the new rules and (ii) continue to meet the minimum 5% Tier 1 common equity ratio as calculated under the previously generally applicable risk-based capital rules. M&T’s most recent CCAR capital plan was filed with the Federal Reserve Board on January 6, 2014.  

Safety and Soundness Standards  

Guidelines adopted by the federal bank regulatory agencies pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDIA”), establish general standards relating to internal controls and information systems, internal audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, fees and benefits. In general, these guidelines require, among other things, appropriate systems and practices to identify and manage the risk and exposures specified in the guidelines. Additionally, the agencies adopted regulations that authorize, but do not require, an agency to order an institution that has been given notice by an agency that it is not satisfying any of such safety and soundness standards to submit a compliance plan. If, after being so notified, an institution fails to submit an acceptable compliance plan or fails in any material respect to implement an acceptable compliance plan, the agency must issue an order directing action to correct the deficiency and may issue an order directing other actions of the types to which an undercapitalized institution is subject under the “prompt corrective action” provisions of the FDIA. See “Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA” below. If an institution fails to comply with such an order, the agency may seek to enforce such order in judicial proceedings and to impose civil money penalties.  

Regulatory Remedies under the FDIA  

The FDIA establishes a system of regulatory remedies to resolve the problems of undercapitalized institutions, referred to as the prompt corrective action. The federal banking regulators have established five capital categories (“well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized”) and must take certain mandatory supervisory actions, and are authorized to take other discretionary actions, with respect to institutions which are undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The severity of these mandatory and discretionary supervisory actions depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the FDIA requires the banking regulator to appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. The federal bank regulatory agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital levels for each category:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

13  

Table of Contents 

  “Undercapitalized”    “Significantly Undercapitalized” 

Leverage Ratio less than 4%, 

Tier 1 Capital ratio less than 4%, or 

Total Capital ratio less than 8%.    

Leverage Ratio less than 3%, 

Tier 1 Capital ratio less than 3%, or 

Total Capital ratio less than 6%. 

  “Critically undercapitalized”      

 Tangible equity to total assets less than 2%.     

For purposes of these regulations, the term “tangible equity” includes core capital elements counted as Tier 1 Capital for purposes of the risk-based capital standards plus the amount of outstanding cumulative perpetual preferred stock (including related surplus), minus all intangible assets with certain exceptions.  

An institution that is classified as well-capitalized based on its capital levels may be classified as adequately capitalized, and an institution that is adequately capitalized or undercapitalized based upon its capital levels may be treated as though it were undercapitalized or significantly undercapitalized, respectively, if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment.  

An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking regulator. Under the FDIA, in order for the capital restoration plan to be accepted by the appropriate federal banking agency, a BHC must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution will comply with its capital restoration plan, subject to certain limitations. The BHC must also provide appropriate assurances of performance. The obligation of a controlling BHC under the FDIA to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5.0% of an undercapitalized subsidiary’s assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except in accordance with an accepted capital restoration plan or with the approval of the FDIC. Institutions that are significantly undercapitalized or undercapitalized and either fail to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fail to implement an approved capital restoration plan may be subject to a number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically undercapitalized depository institutions failing to submit or implement an acceptable capital restoration plan are subject to appointment of a receiver or conservator.  

The New Capital Rules revise the current prompt corrective action requirements effective January 1, 2015 by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category (other than critically undercapitalized), with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the current 6%); and (iii) eliminating the current provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The New Capital Rules do not change the total risk-based capital requirement for any prompt corrective action category.  

Support of Subsidiary Banks  

Under longstanding Federal Reserve Board policy which has been codified by the Dodd-Frank Act, M&T is expected to act as a source of financial strength to, and to commit resources to support, its subsidiary banks. This support may be required at times when M&T may not be inclined or able to provide it. In addition, any capital loans by a BHC to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the BHC to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.  

Cross-Guarantee Provisions  

Each insured depository institution “controlled” (as defined in the BHCA) by the same BHC can be held liable to the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any other insured depository institution controlled by that holding company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of those banks that is in danger of default. The FDIC’s claim under the cross-guarantee provisions is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository institution or  

14  

Table of Contents 

 its holding company and to most claims arising out of obligations or liabilities owed to affiliates of the institution, but is subordinate to claims of depositors, secured creditors and holders of subordinated debt (other than affiliates) of the commonly controlled insured depository institution. The FDIC may decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisions if it determines that a waiver is in the best interest of the DIF.  

Transactions with Affiliates  

There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which M&T and its non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding from M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. In general, Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Board Act and Federal Reserve Board Regulation W require that any “covered transaction” by M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. (or any of their respective subsidiaries) with an affiliate must in certain cases be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and must be limited as follows: (a) in the case of any single such affiliate, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of the insured depository institution and its subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of the capital stock and surplus of such insured depository institution, and (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of covered transactions of an insured depository institution and its subsidiaries may not exceed 20% of the capital stock and surplus of such insured depository institution. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly expanded the coverage and scope of the limitations on affiliate transactions within a banking organization, including for example, the requirement that the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions begin to apply to financial subsidiaries. “Covered transactions” are defined by statute to include, among other things, a loan or extension of credit, as well as a purchase of securities issued by an affiliate, a purchase of assets (unless otherwise exempted by the Federal Reserve Board) from the affiliate, certain derivative transactions that create a credit exposure to an affiliate, the acceptance of securities issued by the affiliate as collateral for a loan, and the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit on behalf of an affiliate. All covered transactions, including certain additional transactions (such as transactions with a third party in which an affiliate has a financial interest), must be conducted on market terms.  

FDIC Insurance Assessments  

Deposit Insurance Assessments. M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. pay deposit insurance premiums to the FDIC based on an assessment rate established by the FDIC. Deposit insurance assessments are based on average total assets minus average tangible equity. For larger institutions, such as M&T Bank, the FDIC uses a performance score and a loss-severity score that are used to calculate an initial assessment rate. In calculating these scores, the FDIC uses a bank’s capital level and supervisory ratings (its “CAMELS ratings”) and certain financial measures to assess an institution’s ability to withstand asset-related stress and funding-related stress. The FDIC has the ability to make discretionary adjustments to the total score based upon significant risk factors that are not adequately captured in the calculations.  

The initial base assessment rate ranges from 5 to 35 basis points on an annualized basis. After the effect of potential base-rate adjustments, the total base assessment rate could range from 2.5 to 45 basis points on an annualized basis. As the DIF reserve ratio grows, the rate schedule will be adjusted downward. Additionally, an institution must pay an additional premium equal to 50 basis points on every dollar (above 3% of an institution’s Tier 1 capital) of long-term, unsecured debt held that was issued by another insured depository institution (excluding debt guaranteed under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program).  

In October 2010, the FDIC adopted a new DIF restoration plan to ensure the designated reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 2020. The FDIC will, at least semi-annually, update its income and loss projections for the DIF and, if necessary, propose rules to further increase assessment rates.  

Under the FDIA, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC.  

FICO Assessments. In addition, the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 authorized the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF applicable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations from deposit insurance fund assessments. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance according to the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedules. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. M&T Bank recognized $5 million of expense related to its FICO assessments and Wilmington Trust, N.A. recognized $58 thousand of such expense in 2013.  

15  

Table of Contents 

Acquisitions  

The BHCA requires every BHC to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board before: (1) it may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or savings and loan association, if after such acquisition, the BHC will directly or indirectly own or control 5% or more of the voting shares of the institution; (2) it or any of its subsidiaries, other than a bank, may acquire all or substantially all of the assets of any bank or savings and loan association; or (3) it may merge or consolidate with any other BHC. Since July 2011, financial holding companies and bank holding companies with consolidated assets exceeding $50 billion, such as M&T, have been required to (i) obtain prior approval from the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring certain nonbank financial companies with assets exceeding $10 billion and (ii) provide prior written notice to the Federal Reserve Board before acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company having consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. Since July 2011, bank holding companies seeking approval to complete an acquisition have been required to be well-capitalized and well-managed.  

The BHCA further provides that the Federal Reserve Board may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve Board is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy, and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties’ performance under the CRA and compliance with consumer protection laws. The Federal Reserve Board must take into account the institutions’ effectiveness in combating money laundering. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the BHCA was amended to require the Federal Reserve Board, when evaluating a proposed transaction, to consider the extent to which the transaction would result in greater or more concentrated risks to the stability of the United States banking or financial system.  

Executive and Incentive Compensation  

Guidelines adopted by the federal banking agencies pursuant to the FDIA prohibit excessive compensation as an unsafe and unsound practice and describe compensation as excessive when the amounts paid are unreasonable or disproportionate to the services performed by an executive officer, employee, director or principal stockholder. In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board issued comprehensive guidance on incentive compensation policies (the “Incentive Compensation Guidance”) intended to ensure that the incentive compensation policies of banking organizations do not undermine the safety and soundness of such organizations by encouraging excessive risk-taking. The Incentive Compensation Guidance, which covers all employees that have the ability to materially affect the risk profile of an organization, either individually or as part of a group, is based upon the key principles that a banking organization’s incentive compensation arrangements should (i) provide incentives that do not encourage risk-taking beyond the organization’s ability to effectively identify and manage risks, (ii) be compatible with effective internal controls and risk management, and (iii) be supported by strong corporate governance, including active and effective oversight by the organization’s board of directors. These three principles are incorporated into the proposed joint compensation regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act, discussed below. Any deficiencies in compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other actions. The Incentive Compensation Guidance provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or related risk-management control or governance processes pose a risk to the organization’s safety and soundness and the organization is not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the deficiencies.  

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies and the SEC to establish joint regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment arrangements at specified regulated entities, such as M&T and M&T Bank, having at least $1 billion in total assets that encourage inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee, director or principal shareholder with excessive compensation, fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to regulators of incentive-based  

16  

Table of Contents 

 compensation arrangements. The agencies proposed such regulations in April 2011, and if the final regulations are adopted in the form initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the manner in which M&T may structure compensation for its executives.  

The scope and content of the U.S. banking regulators’ policies on incentive compensation are continuing to develop and are likely to continue evolving in the future. It cannot be determined at this time whether compliance with such policies will adversely affect the ability of M&T and its subsidiaries to hire, retain and motivate their key employees.  

Resolution Planning  

Bank holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T, are required to report periodically to regulators a resolution plan for their rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. M&T’s resolution plan must, among other things, ensure that its depository institution subsidiaries are adequately protected from risks arising from its other subsidiaries. The regulation adopted by the Federal Reserve and FDIC sets specific standards for the resolution plans, including requiring a strategic analysis of the plan’s components, a description of the range of specific actions the company proposes to take in resolution, and a description of the company’s organizational structure, material entities, interconnections and interdependencies, and management information systems, among other elements. In addition, insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in total assets, such as M&T Bank, are required to submit to the FDIC periodic plans for resolution in the event of the institution’s failure. M&T and M&T Bank submitted their resolution plans on December 13, 2013.  

Insolvency of an Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding Company  

If the FDIC is appointed as conservator or receiver for an insured depository institution such as M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A., upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:  

   —    to transfer any of the depository institution’s assets and liabilities to a new obligor, including a newly formed “bridge” bank without the approval of the depository institution’s creditors;  

   —    to enforce the terms of the depository institution’s contracts pursuant to their terms without regard to any provisions triggered by the appointment of the FDIC in that capacity; or  

   —    to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the depository institution is a party, the performance of which is determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the orderly administration of the depository institution.  

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of domestic deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of M&T Bank or Wilmington Trust, N.A., the debt holders would be treated differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the depositors of the bank. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new resolution regime (known as “orderly liquidation authority”) for systemically important non-bank financial companies, including bank holding companies and their affiliates. Under the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC may be appointed as receiver for the systemically important institution, and its failed non-bank subsidiaries, for purposes of liquidating the entity if, among other conditions, it is determined at the time of the institution’s failure that it is in default or in danger of default and the failure poses a risk to the stability of the U.S. financial system.  

If the FDIC is appointed as receiver under the orderly liquidation authority, then the powers of the receiver, and the rights and obligations of creditors and other parties who have dealt with the institution, would be determined under the Dodd-Frank Act provisions, and not under the insolvency law that would otherwise apply. The powers of the receiver under the orderly liquidation authority were based on the powers of the FDIC as receiver for depository institutions under the FDIA. However, the provisions governing the rights of creditors under the orderly liquidation authority were modified in certain respects to reduce disparities with the treatment of creditors’ claims under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code as compared to the treatment of those claims under the new authority. Nonetheless, substantial differences in the rights of creditors exist as between these two regimes, including the right of the FDIC to disregard the strict priority of creditor claims in some circumstances, the use of an administrative claims procedure to determine creditors’ claims (as opposed to the judicial procedure utilized in bankruptcy proceedings), and the right of the FDIC to transfer claims to a “bridge” entity.  

17  

Table of Contents 

An orderly liquidation fund will fund such liquidation proceedings through borrowings from the Treasury Department and risk-based assessments made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in liquidation to the extent of such excess, and second, if necessary, on bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as M&T. If an orderly liquidation is triggered, M&T could face assessments for the orderly liquidation fund.  

The FDIC has developed a strategy under the orderly liquidation authority referred to as the “single point of entry” strategy, under which the FDIC would resolve a failed financial holding company by transferring its assets (including shares of its operating subsidiaries) and, potentially, very limited liabilities to a “bridge” holding company; utilize the resources of the failed financial holding company to recapitalize the operating subsidiaries; and satisfy the claims of unsecured creditors of the failed financial holding company and other claimants in the receivership by delivering securities of one or more new financial companies that would emerge from the bridge holding company. Under this strategy, management of the failed financial holding company would be replaced and shareholders and creditors of the failed financial holding company would bear the losses resulting from the failure. The FDIC issued a notice in December 2013 describing some elements of this single point of entry strategy and seeking public comment to further develop the strategy. The orderly liquidation authority provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act became effective upon enactment. However, a number of rulemakings are required under the terms of Dodd-Frank, and a number of provisions of the new authority require clarification.  

Depositor Preference  

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non-deposit creditors, including depositors whose deposits are payable only outside of the United States and the parent BHC, with respect to any extensions of credit they have made to such insured depository institution.  

Financial Privacy  

The federal banking regulators have adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a non-affiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services.  

Consumer Protection Laws  

In connection with their respective lending and leasing activities, M&T Bank, Wilmington Trust, N.A. and certain of their subsidiaries, are each subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy. These laws include the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and various state law counterparts.  

In addition, federal law currently contains extensive customer privacy protection provisions. Under these provisions, a financial institution must provide to its customers, at the inception of the customer relationship and annually thereafter, the institution’s policies and procedures regarding the handling of customers’ nonpublic personal financial information. These provisions also provide that, except for certain limited exceptions, a financial institution may not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third parties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.  

18  

Table of Contents 

Since July 1, 2010, a federal banking rule under the Electronic Fund Transfer Act prohibits financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machines (“ATM”) and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those type of transactions. If a consumer does not opt in, any ATM transaction or debit that overdraws the consumer’s account will be denied. Overdrafts on the payment of checks and regular electronic bill payments are not covered by this new rule. Before opting in, the consumer must be provided a notice that explains the financial institution’s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the service, and the consumer’s choices. Financial institutions must provide consumers who do not opt in with the same account terms, conditions and features (including pricing) that they provide to consumers who do opt in.  

Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Supervision   

M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are supervised by the CFPB for certain consumer protection purposes. The CFPB has focused on:  

   —    risks to consumers and compliance with the federal consumer financial laws, when it evaluates the policies and practices of a financial institution;  

   —    the markets in which firms operate and risks to consumers posed by activities in those markets;  

   —    depository institutions that offer a wide variety of consumer financial products and services;  

   —    depository institutions with a more specialized focus; and  

   —    non-depository companies that offer one or more consumer financial products or services.  

Community Reinvestment Act  

M&T Bank and Wilmington Trust, N.A. are subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, each appropriate federal bank regulatory agency is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess such bank’s record in assessing and meeting the credit needs of the communities served by that bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. During these examinations, the regulatory agency rates such bank’s compliance with the CRA as “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance.” The regulatory agency’s assessment of the institution’s record is part of the regulatory agency’s consideration of applications to acquire, merge or consolidate with another banking institution or its holding company, or to open or relocate a branch office. Currently, M&T Bank has a CRA rating of “Outstanding” and Wilmington Trust, N.A. has a CRA rating of “Satisfactory.” In the case of a BHC applying for approval to acquire a bank or BHC, the Federal Reserve Board will assess the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant BHC in considering the application, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. The Banking Law contains provisions similar to the CRA which are applicable to New York-chartered banks. Currently, M&T Bank has a CRA rating of “Outstanding” as determined by the New York State Department of Financial Services.  

USA Patriot Act  

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) imposes obligations on U.S. financial institutions, including banks and broker/dealer subsidiaries, to implement and maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls which are reasonably designed to prevent, detect and report instances of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and to verify the identity of their customers. In addition, provisions of the USA Patriot Act require the federal financial institution regulatory agencies to consider the effectiveness of a financial institution’s anti-money laundering activities when reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution. As a result of an inspection by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“Federal Reserve Bank”), M&T and M&T Bank entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank related to M&T Bank’s Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering Program. Additional information is included in Part II, Item 7 under the caption “Corporate Profile and Significant Developments.”  

Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation  

The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the “OFAC” rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury Department Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned  

19  

Table of Contents 

 country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on “U.S. persons” engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g. property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure to comply with these sanctions could have serious legal and reputational consequences.  

Regulation of Insurers and Insurance Brokers  

The Company’s operations in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by various state insurance regulatory authorities. Although the scope of regulation and form of supervision may vary from state to state, insurance laws generally grant broad discretion to regulatory authorities in adopting regulations and supervising regulated activities. This supervision generally includes the licensing of insurance brokers and agents and the regulation of the handling of customer funds held in a fiduciary capacity. Certain of M&T’s insurance company subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulatory supervision and to insurance laws and regulations requiring, among other things, maintenance of capital, record keeping, reporting and examinations.  

Governmental Policies  

The earnings of the Company are significantly affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of governmental authorities, including the Federal Reserve Board. Among the instruments of monetary policy used by the Federal Reserve Board to implement these objectives are open-market operations in U.S. Government securities and federal funds, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These instruments of monetary policy are used in varying combinations to influence the overall level of bank loans, investments and deposits, and the interest rates charged on loans and paid for deposits. The Federal Reserve Board frequently uses these instruments of monetary policy, especially its open-market operations and the discount rate, to influence the level of interest rates and to affect the strength of the economy, the level of inflation or the price of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board have had a significant effect on the operating results of banking institutions in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. It is not possible to predict the nature of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies, or the effect which they may have on the Company’s business and earnings.  

Competition  

The Company competes in offering commercial and personal financial services with other banking institutions and with firms in a number of other industries, such as thrift institutions, credit unions, personal loan companies, sales finance companies, leasing companies, securities firms and insurance companies. Furthermore, diversified financial services companies are able to offer a combination of these services to their customers on a nationwide basis. The Company’s operations are significantly impacted by state and federal regulations applicable to the banking industry. Moreover, the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Interstate Banking Act and the Banking Law have allowed for increased competition among diversified financial services providers.  

Other Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives  

Proposals may be introduced in the United States Congress and state legislatures, as well as by regulatory agencies. Such initiatives may include proposals to expand or contract the powers of bank holding companies and depository institutions or proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system. Such legislation could change banking statutes and the operating environment of the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. A change in statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to M&T or any of its subsidiaries could have a material effect on the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company.  

20  

Table of Contents 

Other Information  

Through a link on the Investor Relations section of M&T’s website at www.mtb.com, copies of M&T’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are made available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. Copies of such reports and other information are also available at no charge to any person who requests them or at www.sec.gov. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5138).  

Corporate Governance  

M&T’s Corporate Governance Standards and the following corporate governance documents are also available on M&T’s website at the Investor Relations link: Disclosure and Regulation FD Policy; Executive Committee Charter; Nomination, Compensation and Governance Committee Charter; Audit Committee Charter; Risk Committee Charter; Financial Reporting and Disclosure Controls and Procedures Policy; Code of Ethics for CEO and Senior Financial Officers; Code of Business Conduct and Ethics; and Employee Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters. Copies of such governance documents are also available, free of charge, to any person who requests them. Such requests may be directed to M&T Bank Corporation, Shareholder Relations Department, One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor, Buffalo, NY 14203-2399 (Telephone: (716) 842-5138).  

Statistical Disclosure Pursuant to Guide 3  

See cross-reference sheet for disclosures incorporated elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional information is included in the following tables.  

21  

Table of Contents 

Table 1  

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED YEAR-END BALANCES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 2  

SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES AND OFFICES  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

22  

Table of Contents 

Table 3  

CONSOLIDATED EARNINGS  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

23  

Table of Contents 

Table 4  

COMMON SHAREHOLDER DATA  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Table 5  

CHANGES IN INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE(a)  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Interest income data are on a taxable-equivalent basis. The apportionment of changes resulting from the combined effect of both volume and rate was based on the separately determined volume and rate changes.  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors.