PART I

Item 1. Business

Overview

We own, operate and lease shared wireless infrastructure, including: (1) towers and other structures, such as rooftops (collectively, "towers"), and to a lesser extent, (2) distributed antenna systems ("DAS"), a type of small cell network ("small cells"), and (3) interests in land under third party towers in various forms ("third party land interests") (collectively, "wireless infrastructure"). Our core business is providing access, including space or capacity, to our towers, and to a lesser extent, to our small cells and third party land interests via long-term contracts in various forms, including license, sublease and lease agreements (collectively, "contracts"). Our wireless infrastructure can accommodate multiple customers ("co-location") for antennas or other equipment necessary for the transmission of signals for wireless communication devices. We seek to increase our site rental revenues by adding more tenants on our wireless infrastructure, which we expect to result in significant incremental cash flows due to our relatively fixed operating costs. 

Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—REIT Election."

Certain information concerning our business as of December 31, 2013 is as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We owned, including fee interests and perpetual easements, land and other property interests, including rooftops, (collectively, "land") on which approximately one-third of our site rental gross margin is derived, and we leased, subleased, managed or licensed (collectively, "leased") the land interests on which approximately two-thirds of our site rental gross margin is derived. The leases for the land interests under our towers had an average remaining life in excess of 30 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin.

Certain information concerning our customers and site rental contracts as of December 31, 2013 is as follows:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED][DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Our site rental revenues are of a recurring nature, and typically in excess of 90% have been contracted for in a prior year, excluding the impact of current year acquisitions. 

•Our site rental revenues typically result from long-term contracts with (1) initial terms of five to 15 years, (2) multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each, (3) limited termination rights for our customers, and (4) contractual escalations of the rental price. [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

To a lesser extent, we also provide certain network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, primarily consisting of antenna installations or subsequent augmentations, as well as additional site development services relating to our wireless infrastructure. 

Strategy

Our strategy is to translate anticipated demand for our wireless infrastructure into growth in our cash flows and long-term stockholder value. We measure "long-term stockholder value" as the combined growth in our per share results and dividends to common stockholders. The key elements of our strategy are to:

 1

•Organically grow the cash flows from our wireless infrastructure. We seek to maximize the site rental cash flows derived from our wireless infrastructure by co-locating additional tenants on our wireless infrastructure through long-term contracts as our customers deploy and improve their wireless networks. We seek to maximize new tenant additions or modifications of existing installations (collectively, "new tenant additions") through our focus on customer service and deployment speed. Due to the relatively fixed nature of the costs to operate our wireless infrastructure (which tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation), we expect increases in cash rental receipts from new tenant additions and the related subsequent impact from contracted escalations to result in growth in our operating cash flows. We believe there is considerable additional future demand for our existing wireless infrastructure based on their location and the anticipated growth in the wireless communications industry. Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate additional tenancy, either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure, which we expect to have high incremental returns. 

•Allocate capital efficiently. We seek to allocate our available capital, including the net cash provided by our operating activities, in a manner that will increase long-term stockholder value, including dividends to common stockholders. Our historical discretionary investments have included the following (in no particular order):

◦purchase shares of our common stock ("common stock") from time to time;

◦acquire or construct wireless infrastructure;

◦acquire land interests under towers;

◦make improvements and structural enhancements to our existing wireless infrastructure; or

◦purchase, repay or redeem our debt.

Our long-term strategy is based on our belief that additional demand for our wireless infrastructure will be created by the expected continued growth in the wireless communications industry, which is predominately driven by the demand for wireless data services by consumers. We believe that additional demand for wireless infrastructure will create future growth opportunities for us. We believe that such demand for our wireless infrastructure will continue, will result in organic growth of our cash flows due to new tenant additions on our existing wireless infrastructure, and will create other growth opportunities for us, such as demand for new wireless infrastructure. 

2013 Industry Highlights and Company Developments

See "Item 7. MD&A" and our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of developments and activities that occurred in 2013, including debt financing activities, common stock and mandatory convertible preferred stock offerings in October 2013 ("October Equity Financings"), the announcement of a common stock dividend, and the transaction with AT&T in December 2013 that provides us exclusive rights to lease, operate, or otherwise acquire towers that, as of December 31, 2013, comprise approximately 24% of our towers ("AT&T Acquisition").

As discussed above and in "Item 7. MD&A," we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes effective January 1, 2014. Our small cells will initially be included in one or more wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRSs"). We have submitted a private letter ruling request with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") regarding whether certain components of our small cell business and the related rents qualify as real property under Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code"), Section 856 and thus can be included in our REIT.  Additionally, we will include in TRSs our tower operations in Australia and may include certain other assets and operations in TRSs. Those TRS assets and operations will continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income taxes and to foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located. Our foreign assets and operations (including our tower operations in Puerto Rico and Australia) most likely will be subject to foreign income taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located, regardless of whether they are included in a TRS or not. 

During 2013, consumer demand for wireless data services continued to grow. This growth in wireless data services is driven by increased mobile video, mobile internet usage and machine-to-machine applications. We expect that consumers' growing wireless voice and data consumption will likely result in wireless carriers focusing on improving network quality and capacity by adding additional antennas or other equipment for the transmission of their services to wireless infrastructure in an effort to improve customer retention or satisfaction. All four of the major U.S. wireless carriers are in various stages of deploying 4G long-term evolution ("LTE") networks, which has translated into additional demand for our wireless infrastructure. 

The Company

Virtually all of our operations are located in the U.S. and Australia. We conduct substantially all of our operations through subsidiaries of Crown Castle Operating Company ("CCOC"), including (1) certain subsidiaries which operate our wireless infrastructure portfolios in the U.S. and (2) a 77.6% owned subsidiary that operates our Australia tower portfolio. For more information about our operating segments, as well as financial information about the geographic areas in which we operate, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements and "Item 7. MD&A."

 2

CCUSA

Site Rental. The core business of CCUSA is providing access to our wireless infrastructure. We predominately provide access to wireless carriers under long-term contracts for their antennas which transmit a variety of signals related to wireless voice and data. We believe our wireless infrastructure is integral to our customers' networks and their ability to serve their customers. 

We acquired ownership interests or exclusive rights to approximately 90% of our towers in CCUSA from the four largest U.S. wireless carriers (or their predecessors) through transactions consummated since 1999, including transactions with (1) AT&T in 2013, (2) T-Mobile in 2012, (3) Global Signal Inc. ("Global Signal") in 2007, which had originally acquired the majority of its towers from Sprint, (4) companies now part of Verizon Wireless during 1999 and 2000, and (5) companies now part of AT&T during 1999 and 2000. Our small cells were predominately acquired through the acquisitions of NextG Networks, Inc. in 2012 and NewPath Networks, Inc. in 2010.

We generally receive monthly rental payments from tenants, payable under long-term contracts. We have existing master lease agreements with most U.S. wireless carriers, including Verizon Wireless, AT&T, Sprint, and T-Mobile; such agreements provide certain terms (including economic terms) that govern contracts on our towers entered into by such carriers during the term of their master lease agreements. Over the last several years, we have negotiated up to 15-year terms for both initial and renewal periods for certain of our customers, which often included fixed escalations. We continue to endeavor to negotiate with our existing customer base for longer contractual terms, which often may contain fixed escalation rates. 

Our customer contracts have historically had a high renewal rate. With limited exceptions, the customer contracts may not be terminated prior to the end of their current term. In general, each customer contract which is renewable will automatically renew at the end of its term unless the customer provides prior notice of its intent not to renew. See note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the minimum rental cash payments due to us by tenants pursuant to contract agreements without consideration of tenant renewal options.

The average monthly rental payment of a new tenant added to wireless infrastructure can vary based on (1) aggregate customer volume, (2) the different regions in the U.S., or (3) the physical size, weight and shape of the antenna installation and related equipment. With respect to our small cells, the amount of the monthly payments can also be influenced by similar factors, as well as the amount or cost of (1) installation, (2) fiber strands, (3) equipment at the site, or (4) any prepaid rent received. We also routinely receive rental payment increases in connection with contract amendments, pursuant to which our customers add additional antennas or other equipment to wireless infrastructure on which they already have equipment pursuant to pre-existing contract agreements. In some cases, we have effectively pre-sold, via a firm contractual commitment, a significant portion of the modification of the existing installations relating to certain LTE upgrades in exchange for an increase in the future contracted revenue above that of a typical escalation over a period of time, typically a three or four year period. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview."

Approximately two-thirds of our direct site operating expenses consist of lease expenses and the remainder includes property taxes, repairs and maintenance, employee compensation or related benefit costs, or utilities. Our cash operating expenses tend to escalate at approximately the rate of inflation, partially offset by reductions in cash lease expenses from our purchases of land interests. As a result of the relatively fixed nature of these expenditures, the co-location of additional tenants is achieved at a low incremental operating cost, resulting in high incremental operating cash flows. Our wireless infrastructure portfolio requires minimal sustaining capital expenditures, including maintenance or other non-discretionary capital expenditures, and are typically less than 2% of net revenues. See note 16 to our consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the rental cash payments owed by us to landlords pursuant to our contractual agreements.

Network Services. As part of CCUSA's effort to provide comprehensive solutions, it offers certain network services relating to its wireless infrastructure, consisting of (1) customer equipment installation and subsequent augmentations (collectively, "installation services") and (2) the following additional site development services relating to our customers' existing or new antenna installations on CCUSA's wireless infrastructure: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, zoning or permitting, or other construction or network development related services. For 2013, 56% of CCUSA's network services and other revenues related to installation services, and the remainder related to additional site development services. We have grown our network service revenues over the last several years as a result of our focus on customer service, increasing our market share for installation services on our wireless infrastructure, promoting site development services, expanding the scope of our services and engaging in an increased volume resulting from carrier network upgrades. We have the capability and expertise to install, with the assistance of our network of subcontractors, equipment or antenna systems for our customers. We do not always provide the installation or site development services for our customers on our wireless infrastructure as third parties also provide these services (see also "—Competition" below). These activities are typically non-recurring and highly competitive, with a number of local competitors in most markets. Nearly all of our antenna installation services are billed on a cost-plus profit basis. 

 3

Customers. We work extensively with large national wireless carriers, and in general, our customers are primarily comprised of providers of wireless voice or data services who operate national or regional networks. The following table summarizes the net revenues from our four largest customers expressed as a percentage of CCUSA net revenue and our consolidated net revenues for 2013. The following table is presented after giving effect to T-Mobile's acquisition of MetroPCS (completed in April 2013), Sprint's acquisition of Clearwire (completed in July 2013) and AT&T's pending acquisition of Leap Wireless. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales and Marketing. Our sales organization markets our wireless infrastructure within the wireless communications industry with the objectives of providing access to existing wireless infrastructure or to new wireless infrastructure prior to construction as well as obtaining network services related to our wireless infrastructure. We seek to become the critical partner and preferred independent wireless infrastructure provider for our customers and increase customer satisfaction relative to our peers by leveraging our (1) customer relationships, (2) process-centric approach, and (3) technological tools.

A team of national account directors maintains our relationships with our largest customers. These directors work to develop wireless infrastructure leasing or network service opportunities, as well as to ensure that customers' wireless infrastructure needs are efficiently translated into new leases on our wireless infrastructure. Sales personnel in our area offices develop and maintain local relationships with our customers that are expanding their networks, entering new markets, bringing new technologies to market or requiring maintenance or add-on business. In addition to our full-time sales or marketing staff, a number of senior managers and officers spend a significant portion of their time on sales and marketing activities and call on existing or prospective customers.

We use public and proprietary databases to develop targeted marketing programs focused on carrier network expansions, including small cells, or related network services. We attempt to match specific wireless infrastructure in our portfolio with potential new site demand by obtaining and analyzing information, including our customers' existing antenna locations, tenant contracts, marketing strategies, capital spend plans, deployment status, or actual wireless carrier signal strength measurements taken in the field. We have developed a web-based tool that stores key wireless infrastructure information above and beyond normal property management information, including data on actual customer signal strength, demographics, site readiness or competitive structures. In addition, the web-based tool assists us in estimating potential demand for our wireless infrastructure with greater speed and accuracy. We believe these and other tools we have developed assist our customers in their site selection or deployment of their wireless networks and provide us with an opportunity to have proactive discussions with them regarding their wireless infrastructure deployment plans and the timing or location of their demand for our wireless infrastructure. A key aspect to our sales and marketing strategy is a continued emphasis on our process-centric approach to reduce cycle time related to new leasing or amendments, which helps provide our customers with faster deployment of their networks.

Competition. We compete with (1) other independent tower owners which also provide site rental or network services, (2) wireless carriers which build, own or operate their own tower networks and lease space to other wireless communication companies, and (3) owners of alternative infrastructure, including rooftops, water towers, broadcast towers, utility poles, DAS or other small cells. Some of the larger independent tower companies with which we compete in the U.S. include American Tower Corporation and SBA Communications Corporation. In addition, some wireless carriers own and operate their own tower networks. We believe that tower location, deployment speed, quality of service, capacity and price have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting the leasing of wireless infrastructure. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors"

Competitors in our network services offering include site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners or managers, radio frequency engineering consultants, telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors, or our customers' internal staff. We believe that our customers base their decisions on the outsourcing of network services on criteria such as a company's experience, track record, local reputation, price, or time for completion of a project.

 4

CCAL

Our primary business in Australia is providing access to antenna space on towers to our customers. We own 77.6% of CCAL. CCAL is the largest independent tower operator in Australia. As of December 31, 2013, 56% of CCAL's towers were located in seven major metropolitan areas. The majority of CCAL's towers were acquired from Optus (in 2000) and Vodafone (in 2001). CCAL also provides site development services and property management services for towers owned by third parties.

For 2013, CCAL comprised approximately 5% of our consolidated net revenues. CCAL's principal customers are Vodafone Hutchison Australia (a joint venture between Vodafone and Hutchison ("VHA")), Optus and Telstra, which collectively accounted for approximately 89% of CCAL's 2013 revenues. During 2013, the Australian government continued the development and roll out of the National Broadband Network ("NBN"). NBN is a national high-speed open-access data network targeting nearly all Australian premises and includes a fixed wireless broadband network expected to be deployed by 2016. We believe that the continued development of NBN may result in additional future demand for (1) new tenant additions on CCAL's existing towers or (2) the construction of new towers.

In Australia, CCAL competes with wireless carriers, which own and operate their own tower networks; service companies that provide site development or property management services; and other site owners, such as broadcasters and building owners. The other significant tower owners in Australia are Broadcast Australia, an independent operator of broadcast towers, and Telstra and Optus, wireless carriers. We believe that tower location, quality of service, deployment speed, capacity or price within a geographic market are the most significant competitive factors affecting the leasing of wireless infrastructure in Australia.

Employees

At January 31, 2014, we employed approximately 1,900 people worldwide, including approximately 1,700 in the U.S. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. We have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages, and management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory.

Regulatory and Environmental Matters

To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international regulations. The summary below is based on regulations currently in effect, and such regulations are subject to review or modification by the applicable governmental authority from time to time. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be fined or even lose our rights to conduct some of our business.

United States

We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state, and local regulations and laws in the U.S., including Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") and Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") regulations and those discussed under "—Environmental" below.

Federal Regulations. Both the FCC and the FAA regulate towers used for wireless communications, radio, or television broadcasting. Such regulations control the siting, lighting, or marking of towers and may, depending on the characteristics of particular towers, require the registration of tower facilities with the FCC and the issuance of determinations confirming no hazard to air traffic. Wireless communications devices operating on towers are separately regulated and independently licensed based upon the particular frequency used. In addition, the FCC and the FAA have developed standards to consider proposals for new or modified tower or antenna structures based upon the height or location, including proximity to airports. Proposals to construct or to modify existing tower or antenna structures above certain heights are reviewed by the FAA to ensure the structure will not present a hazard to aviation, which determination may be conditioned upon compliance with lighting or marking requirements. The FCC requires its licensees to operate communications devices only on towers that comply with FAA rules and are registered with the FCC, if required by its regulations. Where tower lighting is required by FAA regulation, tower owners bear the responsibility of notifying the FAA of any tower lighting outage and ensuring the timely restoration of such outages. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties.

Local Regulations. The U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 to preserve state and local zoning authorities' jurisdiction over the siting of communications towers and small cells. The law, however, limits local zoning authority by prohibiting actions by local authorities that discriminate between different service providers of wireless services or ban altogether the provision of wireless services. Additionally, the law prohibits state and local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the facilities comply with FCC regulations.

 5

Local regulations include city and other local ordinances (including subdivision and zoning ordinances), approvals for construction, modification and removal of towers and small cells, and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly, but typically require us to obtain approval from local officials prior to tower construction. Local zoning authorities may render decisions that prevent the construction or modification of towers or place conditions on such construction or modifications that are responsive to community residents' concerns regarding the height, visibility, or other characteristics of the towers. To expedite the deployment of wireless networks, the FCC issued a declaratory ruling in 2009, which is currently under appeal, establishing timeframes for the review of applications by local and state governments of 90 days for co-locations and 150 days for new tower construction. The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 mandates that state and local governments must approve an eligible facility's request for the modification of an existing tower that does not substantially change the dimensions of such tower. Notwithstanding the FCC declaratory ruling and recent legislation, decisions of local zoning authorities may also adversely affect the timing or cost of wireless infrastructure construction or modification.

Some of our small cell related subsidiaries hold authorization to provide intrastate telecommunication services as competitive local exchange carriers ("CLEC") in numerous states and to provide domestic interstate telecommunication services as authorized by the FCC. These small cell subsidiaries are primarily regulated by state public service commissions which have jurisdiction over public rights-of-way. CLEC status, in certain cases, helps promote access to such public rights-of-way, which is beneficial to the deployment of our small cell on a timely basis. Status as a CLEC often allows us to deploy our small cell systems in locations where zoning restrictions might otherwise delay, restrict, or prevent building or expanding traditional wireless tower sites or traditional wireless rooftop sites.

Environmental. We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations protecting environmental quality, including air and water quality and wildlife protection. To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international environmental regulations or matters. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

The construction of new towers or, in some cases, the modification of existing towers in the U.S. may be subject to environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended ("NEPA"), which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of major federal actions. The FCC has promulgated regulations implementing NEPA which require applicants to investigate the potential environmental impact of the proposed tower construction. Should the proposed tower construction present a significant environmental impact, the FCC must prepare an environmental impact statement, subject to public comment. If the proposed construction or modification of a tower may have a significant impact on the environment, the FCC's approval of the construction or modification could be significantly delayed.

Our operations are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission, or remediation of,or exposure to, hazardous or non-hazardous substances, materials, or wastes. As an owner, lessee, or operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint-and-several liability for the cleanup of on-site or off-site contamination relating to existing or historical operations; or we could also be subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to such contamination. In general, our customer contracts prohibit our customers from using or storing any hazardous substances on our tower sites in violation of applicable environmental laws and require our customers to provide notice of certain environmental conditions caused by them.

As licensees and wireless infrastructure owners, we are also subject to regulations and guidelines that impose a variety of operational requirements relating to radio frequency emissions. As employers, we are subject to Occupational Safety and Health Administration (and similar occupational health and safety legislation in Australia) and similar guidelines regarding employee protection from radio frequency exposure. The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years.

We have compliance programs and monitoring projects to help assure that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on us.

Other Regulations. We hold, through certain of our subsidiaries, licenses for common carrier microwave service, which are subject to additional regulation by the FCC. Our FCC license relating to our 1670-1675 MHz U.S. nationwide spectrum license ("Spectrum") is pending FCC renewal and contains certain conditions related to the services that may be provided thereunder, the technical equipment used in connection therewith and the circumstances under which it may be renewed. We have leased the Spectrum to a third party through 2023, subject to the lessee's option to purchase the spectrum. 

 6

Australia

Federal Regulations. Carrier licenses and nominated carrier declarations issued under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 authorize the use of network units for the supply of telecommunications services to the public. The definition of "network units" includes line links and base stations used for wireless voice services but does not include tower infrastructure. Accordingly, CCAL as a tower owner and operator does not require a carrier license under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997. Similarly, because CCAL does not own any transmitters or spectrum, it does not currently require any apparatus or spectrum licenses issued under the Australian Radiocommunications Act 1992.

Carriers have a statutory obligation to provide other carriers with access to towers, and if there is a dispute (including a pricing dispute), the matter may be referred to the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission for resolution. As a non-carrier, CCAL is not subject to this requirement, and our customers negotiate site access on a commercial basis.

While the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 grants certain exemptions from planning laws for the installation of "low impact facilities," newly constructed towers are expressly excluded from the definition of "low impact facilities." Accordingly, in connection with the construction of towers, CCAL is subject to state and local planning laws that vary on a site-by-site basis, typically requiring us to obtain approval from local government agencies prior to tower construction, subject to certain exceptions. Structural enhancements may be undertaken on behalf of a carrier without state or local planning approval under the general "maintenance power" under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997, although these enhancements may be subject to state and local planning laws if CCAL is unable to obtain carrier cooperation to use such power. For a limited number of towers, CCAL is also required to install aircraft warning lighting in compliance with federal aviation regulations. In Australia, a carrier may arguably be able to utilize the "maintenance power" under the Australian Telecommunications Act 1997 to remain as a tenant on a tower after the expiration of a site license or sublease; however, CCAL's customer access agreements generally limit the ability of customers to do this, and, even if a carrier did utilize this power, the carrier would be required to pay for CCAL's financial loss, which would roughly equal the site rental revenues that would have otherwise been payable.

Local Regulations. In Australia there are various local, state, and territory laws and regulations which relate to, among other things, town planning and zoning restrictions, standards or approvals for the design, construction or alteration of a structure or facility, or environmental regulations. As in the U.S., these laws vary greatly, but typically require tower owners to obtain approval from governmental bodies prior to tower construction and to comply with environmental laws on an ongoing basis.

Item 1A. Risk Factors