Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

General Overview

Overview

We own, operate, and lease shared wireless infrastructure. See "Item 1. Business" for a further discussion of our business, including our long-term strategy, certain key terms of our lease agreements, and growth trends in the wireless communications industry. Site rental revenues represented 83% of our 2013 consolidated net revenues. CCUSA, our largest operating segment, accounted for 95% of our 2013 site rental revenues.

The following are certain highlights of our business fundamentals and results as of and for the year ended December 31, 2013:

•Potential growth resulting from wireless network expansion and new entrants

◦We expect wireless carriers will continue their focus on improving network quality and expanding capacity by adding additional antennas or other equipment on our wireless infrastructure.

◦We expect existing and potential new wireless carrier demand for our wireless infrastructure will result from (1) next generation technologies, (2) continued development of mobile internet applications, (3) adoption of other emerging and embedded wireless devices, (4) increasing smartphone penetration, (5) wireless carrier focus on expanding quality and capacity, or (6) the availability of additional spectrum.

◦Substantially all of our wireless infrastructure can accommodate additional tenancy, either as currently constructed or with appropriate modifications to the structure.

◦U.S. wireless carriers continue to invest in their networks.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Our acquisitions in 2012, including the acquisition of certain subsidiaries of Wireless Capital Partners, LLC ("WCP Acquisition"), the acquisition of NextG Networks, Inc. ("NextG Acquisition"), and the T-Mobile Acquisition (collectively the "2012 Acquisitions") and, to a lesser extent, the AT&T Acquisition (see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements); and

▪The fact that we have effectively pre-sold via a firm contractual commitment a significant portion of the modification of the existing installations relating to certain LTE upgrades. We have done so by increasing the future contracted revenue above that of a typical escalation over a period of time, typically a three or four year period. As a result, for any given period, the increase in cash revenue may not translate into a corresponding increase in reported revenues from the application of straight-line revenue recognition (see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements). 

•Site rental revenues under long-term customer contracts with contractual escalations

◦Initial terms of five to 15 years with multiple renewal periods at the option of the tenant of five to ten years each.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Revenues predominately from large wireless carriers[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Majority of land interests under our towers under long-term control[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•Relatively fixed wireless infrastructure operating costs 

◦Our wireless infrastructure operating costs tend to increase at approximately the rate of inflation and are not typically influenced by new tenant additions.

•Minimal sustaining capital expenditure requirements

◦Sustaining capital expenditures represented less than 2% of net revenues.

•Debt portfolio with long-dated maturities extended over multiple years, with the majority of such debt having a fixed rate (see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a further discussion of our debt) 

◦66% of our debt has fixed rate coupons.

◦Our debt service coverage and leverage ratios were comfortably within their respective financial maintenance covenants. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a further discussion of our debt covenants. 

 22

•Significant cash flows from operations

◦Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.2 billion.

◦We believe our core business of providing access to our wireless infrastructure can be characterized as a stable cash flow stream, which we expect to grow as a result of anticipated demand for our wireless infrastructure and contractual escalators.

•Capital allocated to drive long-term stockholder value (see also "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" )

◦Historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under our towers, improving or structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, or purchasing, repaying or redeeming our debt.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪Discretionary capital expenditures of $520.1 million, including wireless infrastructure improvements in order to support additional site rentals, construction of wireless infrastructure, and land purchases.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

◦Other investing and financing activities during 2013 included the following:[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

▪In January 2013, we completed the repurchase and redemption of all of our outstanding 9% senior notes and 7.75% secured notes.

The following are certain highlights of our 2014 outlook that impact our business fundamentals described above.

•We expect that our full year 2014 site rental revenue growth will also be impacted by both of the items that impacted our 2013 site rental revenue growth, namely pre-sold arrangements and acquisitions (including a substantial expected contribution from the AT&T Acquisition). See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our AT&T Acquisition. 

•We expect the site rental revenue contribution from new tenant installations to increase in 2014 from 2013, as a result of our customers' focus on improving network quality and capacity. 

•Additionally, we do not expect that recent customer consolidations, or any related non-renewal of customer contracts anticipated in 2014 and 2015, will have a material adverse effect on our operations or cash flows for 2014 or subsequent periods. We expect a reduction to our consolidated site rental revenues (approximately 1% in 2014 and an approximately 2% reduction coming after 2014) as a result of Sprint's non-renewal of tenant contracts stemming from Sprint's decommissioning of its iDEN network. 

•We expect sustaining capital expenditures of approximately 2% of net revenues for full year 2014.

AT&T Acquisition and Financing

In October 2013, we entered into a definitive agreement with AT&T to acquire, for approximately $4.827 billion in cash, exclusive rights to AT&T towers which, as of December 31, 2013, comprise approximately 24% of our towers. Pursuant to a prepaid lease agreement entered into in connection with the AT&T Acquisition, we have the exclusive right to lease or sublease or operate and manage, for a weighted-average term of approximately 28 years, towers which, as of December 31, 2013, comprise 22% of our towers. In addition, pursuant to the AT&T Transaction, we purchased towers from AT&T which, as of December 31, 2013, comprise approximately 2% of our towers. On December 16, 2013, we closed on the AT&T Acquisition. See notes 1 and 3 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the terms of the AT&T Acquisition, including our option to purchase the leased sites at the end of the respective lease terms. 

 23

To finance the AT&T Acquisition, we utilized proceeds from the October Equity Financings and borrowings under the 2012 Revolver, as well as cash on hand. The October Equity Financings consisted of the issuance of (1) 41.4 million shares of our common stock, which generated net proceeds of $3.0 billion and (2) approximately 9.8 million shares of our 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, which generated net proceeds of $950.9 million. In December 2013, we borrowed $865.0 million from our 2012 Revolver. Subsequent to the borrowing from our 2012 Revolver, we (1) issued $500.0 million of Incremental Tranche B-2 Term Loans and (2) issued $200.0 million of Incremental Tranche A Term Loans to repay a portion of the then outstanding 2012 Revolver. See notes 7 and 12 to our consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of the financing of the AT&T Acquisition. 

REIT Election

Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, we will generally be entitled to a deduction for dividends that we pay and therefore will not be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our net taxable income that is currently distributed to our stockholders. We also may be subject to certain federal, state, local, and foreign taxes on our income or assets, including alternative minimum taxes, taxes on any undistributed income, and state, local, or foreign income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could in certain circumstances be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain qualification for taxation as a REIT. Our small cells will initially be included in one or more wholly-owned TRSs. We have submitted a private letter ruling request with the IRS regarding whether certain components of our small cell business and the related rents qualify as real property under Code Section 856 and thus can be included in our REIT. Additionally, we will include in TRSs our tower operations in Australia and may include certain other assets and operations in TRSs. Those TRS assets and operations will continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income taxes and to foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located. Our foreign assets and operations (including our tower operations in Puerto Rico and Australia) most likely will be subject to foreign income taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located, regardless of whether they are included in a TRS or not. 

To qualify and be taxed as a REIT, we will generally be required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, after the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards ("NOLs"), (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) each year to our stockholders. Our determination as to the timing and amount of future dividends that we may make as a REIT will be based on a number of factors, including investment opportunities around our core business and our federal net operating losses of approximately $2.2 billion (see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements). 

In connection with completing the steps necessary to qualify to operate as a REIT, in December 2013 we de-recognized the net deferred tax assets and liabilities related to the entities included in the REIT resulting in a corresponding net non-cash income tax charge of $67.4 million. The de-recognition of the deferred tax assets and liabilities was recorded upon completion of all necessary actions to qualify as a REIT and receipt of final approval from our board of directors. 

See notes 10 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements and "Item 1A—Risk Factors" for additional information concerning our REIT election.

Announcement of Plan to Initiate Common Stock Dividend

In February 2014, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share to our common stockholders, which is expected to result in an annual aggregate payment of $470 million. See notes 12 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements.

 24

Results of Operations

The following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with "Item 1. Business," "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion of our results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. which require us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts (see "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements).

Comparison of Consolidated Results

The following is a comparison of our 2013, 2012 and 2011 consolidated results of operations: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

*Percentage is not meaningful

(a)Exclusive of depreciation, amortization and accretion, which are shown separately.

(b)Inclusive of the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations. See "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments—CCAL."

2013 and 2012. Our consolidated results of operations for 2013 and 2012, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 95% and 94% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 95% and 94% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 85% and 77% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Our operating segment results for 2013 and 2012, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments"). 

 25

2012 and 2011. Our consolidated results of operations for 2012 and 2011, respectively, predominately consist of our CCUSA segment, which accounted for (1) 94% and 94% of consolidated net revenues, (2) 94% and 94% of consolidated gross margins, and (3) 77% and 98% of consolidated net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders. Our operating segment results for 2012 and 2011, including CCUSA, are discussed below (see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments"). 

Comparison of Operating Segments

Our reportable operating segments for 2013 are (1) CCUSA, consisting of our U.S. operations and (2) CCAL, our Australian operations. Our financial results are reported to management and the board of directors in this manner.

See note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for segment results and a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (defined below).

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate our operating performance and operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and accretion, as adjusted ("Adjusted EBITDA"). Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector or other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP").

We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) plus restructuring charges (credits), asset write-down charges, acquisition and integration costs, depreciation, amortization and accretion, amortization of prepaid lease purchase price adjustments, interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs, gains (losses) on retirement of long-term obligations, net gain (loss) on interest rate swaps, impairment of available-for-sale securities, interest income, other income (expense), benefit (provision) for income taxes, cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, income (loss) from discontinued operations, and stock-based compensation expense (see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements). The reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to our net income (loss) is set forth in note 17 to our consolidated financial statements. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as an alternative measure of operating results or cash flows from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP, and Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is discussed further under "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Non-GAAP Financial Measures."

CCUSA—2013 and 2012. See note 3 in our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the impact of the 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition.

Net revenues for 2013 increased by $579.4 million, or 25%, from 2012. This increase in net revenues resulted from an increase in (1) site rental revenues of $370.3 million, or 19% , and (2) network services and other revenues of $209.1 million, or 73%, in each case as compared to 2012. 

This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight-line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of customer contracts, escalations, acquisitions, and cancellations of customer contracts. The 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition also increased our site rental revenues from 2012 to 2013 by 14% (based on initial run rate revenues from these acquisitions). See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by our customers' upgrading to LTE and their ongoing efforts to improve network quality and capacity. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company—CCUSA."  

Site rental gross margins for 2013 increased by $187.1 million, or 12%, from 2012. The increase in the site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 19% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2013 increased primarily as a result of (1) the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure and (2) acquisitions. The $187.1 million incremental margin represents 51% of the related increase in site rental revenues, inclusive of impact of acquisitions. 

Network services and other gross margin for 2013 increased by $78.7 million, or 71%, from 2012. The increase in our gross margin from our network services and other revenues is a reflection of the volume of activity from carrier network enhancements such as LTE upgrades, the increase in our market share and the general volatility in the volume and mix of network services work. Our network services offering is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long-term contracts. 

 26

General and administrative expenses for 2013 increased by $28.6 million, or 15%, from 2012 but decreased to 7% of net revenues in 2013 from 8% of net revenues in 2012. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges. See also note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in general and administrative expenses in nominal dollars was commensurate with the growth in our business as a result of our acquisitions. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of the co-location of additional tenants on our wireless infrastructure.

Adjusted EBITDA for 2013 increased by $235.8 million, or 16%, from 2012. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental and network services activities and the 2012 Acquisitions.

Depreciation, amortization, and accretion for 2013 increased by $149.9 million, or 25%, from 2012. This increase predominately resulted from the fixed asset and intangible asset additions related to the NextG Acquisition and the T-Mobile Acquisition.

Interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs decreased $11.4 million, or 2%, from 2012 to 2013, as a result of our refinancings during 2012 and 2013, partially offset by additional borrowings to fund the 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition. During 2012 and 2013, we completed several debt transactions, resulting in (1) lowering our average cost of debt, (2) funding for our acquisitions, (3) the refinancing of certain of our debt, and (4) the extension of certain of our debt maturities. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources."

As a result of our debt transactions, we incurred a net loss of $37.1 million for 2013, inclusive of (1) non-cash losses of $1.1 million resulting from the write-off of deferred financing costs and discounts and (2) cash losses of $36.0 million including with respect to make whole payments. During 2012, as a result of repurchasing and redeeming certain of our debt, we incurred a net loss of $132.0 million, inclusive of (1) non-cash losses of $48.1 million resulting from the write-off of deferred financing costs and discounts and (2) cash losses of $83.9 million including with respect to make whole payments. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings, see notes 7 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Our acquisition and integration expenses for 2012 and 2013 predominately related to the 2012 Acquisitions and AT&T Acquisition. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

The benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2013 was a provision of $191.0 million compared to a benefit of $60.1 million for 2012. For 2013, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to the de-recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities related to our REIT election resulting in a non-cash income tax charge of $67.4 million. For 2012, the effective tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate predominately due to a valuation allowance reversal of $115.2 million resulting from (1) the NextG acquisition and (2) our determination to reverse a portion of the valuation allowance based upon our consideration of our recent historical trends and anticipated future taxable income. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2013 was income of $76.5 million compared to income of $144.6 million for 2012. The decrease in net income was predominately due to a change in our benefit (provision) for income taxes as discussed above, partially offset by (1) the growth in our existing business, (2) a decrease in interest expense, and (3) a decrease in the net losses on the retirement of debt. 

Dividends on preferred stock and losses on purchases of preferred stock for 2013 is inclusive of the dividends related to our 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock.

CCAL—2013 and 2012. The increases and decreases between 2013 and 2012 were inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars expressed in U.S dollars for 2013 was approximately 0.9687, a decrease of approximately 6% from approximately 1.036 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Total net revenues for 2013 increased by $10.3 million, or 7%, from 2012. Site rental revenues for 2013 increased by $9.1 million, or 7%, from 2012. The decrease in the exchange rate negatively impacted net revenues by 7% in 2013 from 2012. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors, inclusive of straight-line accounting, including, in no particular order: tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of customer contracts, acquisitions, escalations, and cancellations of customer contracts. 

Site rental gross margins for 2013 increased by $6.4 million, or 7%, from 2012 and Adjusted EBITDA for 2013 increased by $5.7 million, or 8%, from 2012. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were primarily due to the same factors that drove the increase in net revenues. 

 27

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2013 was net income of $13.6 million, compared to net income of $44.0 million for 2012, inclusive of income tax benefit of $39.9 million resulting from the reversals of the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets. In addition to the valuation allowance reversal, net income was favorably impacted by the growth in the site rental business.

CCUSA—2012 and 2011. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the impact of the 2012 Acquisitions.

Net revenues for 2012 increased by $379.8 million, or 20%, from 2011. This increase in net revenues resulted in part from an increase in site rental revenues of $256.1 million, or 15%, for the same periods. This increase in site rental revenues was impacted by the following items, inclusive of straight-line accounting, in no particular order: new tenant additions across our entire portfolio, renewals or extensions of customer contracts, acquisitions, escalations, and cancellations of customer contracts. The 2012 Acquisitions increased our site rental net revenues from 2011 to 2012 by 6% (based on initial run rate revenues from these acquisitions). See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a further discussion of our revenue recognition policies. Tenant additions were influenced by the previously mentioned growth in the wireless communications industry. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company—CCUSA."

Site rental gross margins for 2012 increased by $199.3 million, or 15%, from 2011. The increase in site rental gross margins was related to the previously mentioned 15% increase in site rental revenues. Site rental gross margins for 2012 increased primarily as a result of (1) the high incremental margins associated with tenant additions given the relatively fixed costs to operate wireless infrastructure and (2) acquisitions. The $199.3 million incremental margin represents 78% of the related increase in site rental revenues.

Network services and other revenues for 2012 increased by $123.8 million, or 77%, from 2011, and the related gross margin increased by $46.1 million, or 70%, from 2011. The increase in our gross margin from our network services and other revenues is a reflection of the carrier network enhancements such as LTE upgrades and the general volatility in the volume and mix of such work. Our network services offering is of a variable nature as these revenues are not under long-term contracts. 

General and administrative expenses for 2012 increased by $33.2 million, or 22%, from 2011 but were 8% of net revenues for both 2012 and 2011. General and administrative expenses are inclusive of stock-based compensation charges, which increased $5.7 million during 2012 primarily related to a non-recurring stock grant. See also note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. The increase in general and administrative expenses in nominal dollars was commensurate with the growth in our business as a result of acquisitions. Typically, our general and administrative expenses do not significantly increase as a result of the co-location of additional tenants on our wireless infrastructure.

Adjusted EBITDA for 2012 increased by $235.5 million, or 19%, from 2011. Adjusted EBITDA was positively impacted by the growth in our site rental, as well as the contributions from network services activities and acquisitions.

Depreciation, amortization, and accretion for 2012 increased by $68.7 million, or 13%, from 2011. The increase predominately resulted from the fixed asset and intangible asset additions related to the NextG Acquisition and the T-Mobile Acquisition.

During 2012, we completed several debt transactions. These financing transactions provided funding for the 2012 Acquisitions as well as refinanced certain of our debt and extending our debt maturities. As a result of repurchasing and redeeming certain of our debt, we incurred a net loss of $132.0 million for 2012, inclusive of (1) non-cash losses of $48.1 million resulting from the write-off of deferred financing costs and discounts and (2) cash losses of $83.9 million including with respect to make whole payments. During 2011, we had no significant debt transactions. The increase in interest expense and amortization of deferred financing costs of $93.8 million, or 18%, in 2012 resulted predominately from the increase in debt outstanding. For a further discussion of the debt refinancings, including the impact to our results of operations related to the January 2013 Debt Retirements, see notes 7 and 8 to our consolidated financial statements, "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources," and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Our acquisition and integration expenses for 2012 predominately related to the NextG Acquisition and T-Mobile Acquisition. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements.

Benefit (provision) for income taxes for 2012 was a benefit of $60.1 million inclusive of a valuation allowance reversal of $115.2 million resulting from (1) the NextG Acquisition and (2) our determination to reverse a portion of the valuation allowance based upon our consideration of our recent historical trends and anticipated future taxable income. For 2012 and 2011, the effective tax rate differs from the federal statutory rate predominately due to our federal deferred valuation allowances and the net impact of state taxes. See "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and note 10 in our consolidated financial statements.

 28

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2012 was income of $144.6 million compared to income of $168.1 million for 2011. The decrease in net income was predominately due to the increase in interest expense and the net losses on the retirement of debt partially offset by (1) the growth in our existing business and (2) a change in our benefit (provision) for income taxes primarily as a result of the reversal of the U.S. federal and state deferred tax valuation allowances.

Dividends on preferred stock and losses on purchases of preferred stock for 2011 is inclusive of the dividends related to the 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock, which was converted in 2012.

CCAL—2012 and 2011. The increases and decreases between 2012 and 2011 are inclusive of exchange rate fluctuations. The average exchange rate of Australian dollars expressed in U.S dollars for 2012 was approximately 1.04, an increase of approximately 1% from approximately 1.03 for the same period in the prior year. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."

Total net revenues for 2012 increased by $20.1 million, or 16%, from 2011. Site rental revenues for 2012 increased by $14.6 million, or 13%, from 2011. The increase in the exchange rate did not have a significant impact on the growth from 2012 to 2011. Site rental revenues were also impacted by various other factors, inclusive of straight-line accounting, including, in no particular order: tenant additions on our wireless infrastructure, renewals of customer contracts, acquisitions, escalations, and cancellations of customer contracts. Net revenues were also impacted by a $5.5 million increase in network services and other revenues.

Site rental gross margins for 2012 increased by $13.5 million, or 18%, from 2011, and Adjusted EBITDA for 2012 increased by $10.3 million, or 17%, from 2011. The increase in the site rental gross margin and Adjusted EBITDA were primarily due to previously mentioned growth in our site rental revenues. 

Net income (loss) attributable to CCIC stockholders for 2012 was a net income of $44.0 million, inclusive of income tax benefit of $39.9 million resulting from the reversals of the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets, compared to a net income of $3.0 million for 2011, inclusive of income tax provision of $2.2 million. The increase in net income was primarily related to the change in income tax benefit (provision) and the previously mentioned increase in net revenues.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Overview

General. We believe our core business can be characterized as a stable cash flow stream, generated by revenues under long-term contracts (see "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview—Overview"). Since we became a public company in 1998, our cumulative net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) has exceeded our capital expenditures and provided us with cash available for discretionary investments. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to generate net cash provided by operating activities that exceeds our expected (1) principal amortization payments, (2) common and preferred dividend payments (see notes 12 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements), and (3) capital expenditures, and we thus expect to have excess cash available for discretionary investments. We seek to allocate the net cash provided by our operating activities in a manner that will enhance long-term stockholder value. In addition to investing net cash provided by operating activities, in certain circumstances, we may also use debt financings and issuances of equity or equity related securities to fund discretionary investments, such as for the 2012 Acquisitions and the AT&T Acquisition. 

We seek to maintain a capital structure that we believe drives long-term stockholder value and optimizes our weighted-average cost of capital. We target a leverage ratio of approximately four to six times Adjusted EBITDA and interest coverage of approximately three times Adjusted EBITDA, subject to various factors such as the availability and cost of capital and the potential long-term return on our discretionary investments. We may choose to increase or decrease our leverage or coverage from these targets for various periods of time. 

Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Historically, we have paid and we expect to continue to pay minimal cash income taxes as a result of our net operating loss carryforwards and our recent REIT conversion. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview" and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements.

Historically, we have endeavored to utilize our net cash provided by operating activities to engage in discretionary investments. Our historical discretionary investments include (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under our towers, improving and structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, and purchasing, repaying, or redeeming our debt. We expect to continue to utilize cash flow after dividends in a manner consistent with our past practice, which we believe will maximize long-term stockholder value. We seek to maintain flexibility in our discretionary investments with both net cash provided by operating activities and cash available from financing 

 29

capacity. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview" and notes 12 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements. See also "Item 1A—Risk Factors." 

Liquidity Position. The following is a summary of our capitalization and liquidity position as of December 31, 2013. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and notes 7 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our debt. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Exclusive of restricted cash.

(b)Availability at any point in time is subject to reaffirmation of the representations and warranties in, and there being no default under, our credit agreement. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financing Activities" and "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt Covenants."

Over the next 12 months: 

•We expect that our cash on hand, undrawn revolving credit facility availability, and net cash provided by operating activities (net of cash interest payments) should be sufficient to cover our expected (1) debt service obligations of $101 million (principal payments), (2) capital expenditures in excess of $500 million (sustaining and discretionary), (3) common stock dividend payments expected to be an annual aggregate payment of approximately $470 million, and (4) 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock dividend payments of approximately $45 million. As CCIC and CCOC are holding companies, this cash flow from operations is generated by our operating subsidiaries.

•We have no debt maturities other than principal payments on amortizing debt. We do not anticipate that we will be required to access the capital markets to refinance our existing debt until at least 2015. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a tabular presentation of our debt maturities as of December 31, 2013.

Summary Cash Flows Information 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Operating Activities

The increase in net cash provided by operating activities for 2013 from 2012 and 2011 was due primarily to (1) growth in our core business, including the 2012 Acquisitions and a year over year incremental increase of $99.0 million in customer prepaid rent and (2) growth in our network services. Changes in working capital, and particularly changes in accounts receivable, deferred site rental receivables, deferred rental revenues, prepaid ground leases, restricted cash, and accrued interest, can have a significant impact on net cash provided by operating activities, largely due to the timing of prepayments and receipts. We expect to grow our net cash provided by operating activities in the future (exclusive of movements in working capital) if we realize expected growth in our core business.

Investing Activities

Capital Expenditures. We categorize our capital expenditures as sustaining or discretionary. Sustaining capital expenditures include capitalized costs related to (1) maintenance activities on our wireless infrastructure, which are generally related to replacements and upgrades that extend the life of the asset, (2) vehicles, (3) information technology equipment, and (4) office equipment. Discretionary capital expenditures, which we also commonly refer to as "revenue-generating capital expenditures," 

 30

include (1) purchases of land interests under towers, (2) wireless infrastructure improvements and structural enhancements in order to support additional site rentals, and (3) the construction of wireless infrastructure. 

A summary of our capital expenditures for the last three years is as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Our sustaining capital expenditures have historically been less than 2% of net revenues annually. Our discretionary capital expenditures are made with respect to activities which we believe exhibit sufficient potential to enhance long-term stockholder value. We expect to use in excess of $500 million of our cash flows on capital expenditures (sustaining and discretionary) for full year 2014. Our decisions regarding capital expenditures are influenced by the availability and cost of capital and expected returns on alternative uses of cash, such as payments of dividends and investments. The following is a discussion of certain aspects of our capital expenditures:

•We endeavor to further extend or purchase (including fee interest and perpetual easements) the land interests under our towers. Changes in the mix between purchases and extensions of ground leases may impact the amount of capital expenditures related to purchases of land interests in any given period. The decrease in purchases of land interests from 2011 to 2012 was driven by a single transaction during 2011 for $87.7 million for perpetual easements and other interests. 

•Capital expenditures for wireless infrastructure improvements and other increased from 2012 to 2013 primarily as a result of improvements to towers to accommodate new tenant additions and small cell network builds or improvements. Capital expenditures for construction of wireless infrastructure increased from 2011 to 2012 primarily as a result of additional small cell network builds. Capital expenditures for wireless infrastructure improvements typically vary based on (1) the type of work performed on the wireless infrastructure, with the installation of a new antenna typically requiring greater capital expenditures than a modification to an existing installation, (2) the existing capacity of the wireless structure prior to installation, or (3) changes in structural engineering regulations and our internal structural standards. 

Acquisitions. Acquisitions consist of the acquisition of businesses such as towers, small cells, and third party land sites. See notes 3 and 5 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the AT&T Acquisition and the 2012 Acquisitions.

Financing Activities

We seek to allocate cash generated by our operations in a manner that will enhance long-term stockholder value, which may include various financing activities, such as (in no particular order) paying dividends on our common stock (expected to be approximately $470 million in 2014), paying dividends on our 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (expected to be approximately $45 million in 2014), purchasing our common stock, or purchasing, repaying, or redeeming our debt. See notes 12 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements. 

In 2012, our financing activities predominately related to the issuance and borrowing of an aggregate $6.5 billion of face value of debt which provided funding for the 2012 Acquisitions, as well as the refinancing of our credit facility and the repurchase and redemption of the 7.75% secured notes and the 9% senior notes, which lowered our cost of debt. In 2013, our financing activities predominately related to our October Equity Financings and our senior secured credit facility ("2012 Credit Facility") borrowings and amendments. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview" 

Incurrence of Debt. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our issuances of debt during 2012 and 2013, which extended the maturities of our debt portfolio, provided funding for our acquisitions and lowered our cost of debt. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview—Liquidity Position." Highlights of the security for our debt is as follows:

•Approximately 82% of our debt is secured. Nearly all of our wireless infrastructure is held in subsidiaries whose equity interests have been pledged, directly or indirectly, along with other collateral to secure such indebtedness. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

•We have pledged certain of our deposit accounts in connection with certain of our debt agreements. 

 31

Debt Purchases and Repayments. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our repurchases, redemptions and repayments of debt during 2012 and 2013.

Common Stock. As of December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, we had 334.1 million, 293.2 million, and 284.4 million common shares outstanding, respectively. In October 2013, we issued 41.4 million shares of common stock, the net proceeds of which were used to partially fund the AT&T Acquisition. During the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, we purchased an aggregate of 1.4 million, 0.7 million, and 7.4 million shares, respectively, of common stock. We may continue to purchase our common stock in the future as we seek to allocate capital to discretionary investments in a manner that we believe will enhance long-term stockholder value. Since the beginning of 2011, we have purchased an aggregate of 9.5 million shares of common stock for $438.9 million, which purchases we believe are consistent with our objective to increase long-term stockholder value.In February 2014, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share to our common stockholders, which is expected to result in an annual aggregate payment of $470 million. See "Item 1. Business—Strategy" and notes 12 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements. 

Preferred Stock. In October 2013, we issued 9.8 million shares of 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, the net proceeds of which were used to partially fund the AT&T Acquisition. Unless converted earlier, each outstanding share of the 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock will automatically convert on November 1, 2016 into between 1.0811 and 1.3513 shares of common stock, depending on the applicable market value of the common stock and subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. 

In February 2012, we converted all of the outstanding 6.25% redeemable convertible preferred stock into common stock. See note 11 to our consolidated financial statements.

Revolving Credit Facility. In January 2012, we refinanced our previously outstanding credit facility with a new credit facility that consisted of a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and $2.1 billion of term loan facilities. As of December 31, 2013, our term loan facilities were comprised of $662.5 million of Tranche A Term Loans and $2.9 billion of Tranche B Term Loans. The proceeds of the 2012 Revolver may be used for general corporate purposes, which may include the financing of capital expenditures, acquisitions, and purchases of our common stock. See notes 3 and 5 to our consolidated financial statements. Typically, we use the 2012 Revolver to fund discretionary investments and not for operating activities, such as working capital, which are typically funded by net cash provided by operating activities. As of February 14, 2014, there is $354.0 million outstanding under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, and there is $1.1 billion of undrawn availability under the 2012 Revolver. During 2013, we repaid a total of $1.9 billion (which was primarily funded by our issuance of terms loans) and borrowed $1.0 billion under the 2012 Revolver (which was used to partially fund the AT&T acquisition). The weighted-average interest rate as of December 31, 2013 was 2.2% on the 2012 Revolver. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Overview." 

Restricted Cash. Pursuant to the indentures governing certain of our operating companies' debt securities, all rental cash receipts of the issuers of these debt instruments and their subsidiaries are restricted and held by an indenture trustee. The restricted cash in excess of required reserve balances is subsequently released to us in accordance with the terms of the indentures. During 2012, $316.6 million of restricted cash was held by the trustee in connection with the redemption of the 7.75% secured notes. That amount was subsequently released in January 2013 when the 7.75% secured notes were redeemed in their entirety. See also notes 2 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

Contractual Cash Obligations

The following table summarizes our contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2013. These contractual cash obligations relate primarily to our outstanding borrowings or lease obligations for land interests under our towers. The debt maturities reflect contractual maturity dates and do not consider the impact of the principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates on the tower revenue notes (see footnote (c)) and the WCP securitized notes (see footnote (d)). 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)The following items are in addition to the obligations disclosed in the above table:

 32

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

•We are contractually obligated to pay or reimburse others for property taxes related to our wireless infrastructure. See note 15 to our consolidated financial statements.

•We have the option to purchase approximately 53% of our towers that are leased or subleased or operated and managed under master leases, subleases, and other agreements with Sprint, T-Mobile, and AT&T at the end of their respective lease terms; such options are not firm commitments and are not required. See note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(c)The impact of principal payments that will commence following the anticipated repayment dates of our WCP securitized notes are not included. The anticipated repayment date is 2015 for each class of the WCP securitized notes. If the WCP securitized notes with a current face value of $278.5 million are not repaid in full by their anticipated repayment dates, the applicable interest rate increases by an additional approximately 5% per annum. If the WCP securitized notes are not repaid in full by their rapid amortization date of 2017, monthly principal payments commence using the Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the indenture governing the WCP securitized notes) of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes. The WCP securitized notes are presented based on their contractual maturity dates in 2040. The full year 2013 Excess Cash Flow of the issuers of the WCP securitized notes was approximately $10 million. We currently expect to refinance these notes on or prior to the respective anticipated repayment dates.

(d)Interest payments on the floating rate debt are based on estimated rates currently in effect.

(e)Amounts relate primarily to lease obligations for the land interests on which our wireless infrastructure resides and are based on the assumption that payments will be made through the end of the period for which we hold renewal rights. See table below summarizing remaining terms to expiration.

The following table summarizes our rights to the land interests under our towers, including renewal terms at our option, as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the leases for land interests under our towers had an average remaining life in excess of 30 years, weighted based on site rental gross margin. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors." 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(a)Inclusive of renewal terms at our option.

(b)For the year ended December 31, 2013.

(c)Without consideration of the term of the customer contract agreement.

(d)Inclusive of fee interests and perpetual easements.

Debt Covenants

Our debt obligations contain covenants, including (1) financial maintenance covenants, (2) restrictive negative covenants, or (3) other non-financial covenants. These restrictive negative covenants place restrictions on CCIC or our subsidiaries and may limit our ability to, among other things, incur debt and liens, purchase our securities, make capital expenditures, dispose of assets, undertake transactions with affiliates, make other investments, pay dividends, or distribute excess cash flow. See note 7 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our debt covenants.

Factors that are likely to determine our subsidiaries' ability to comply with their current or future financial maintenance covenants include their (1) financial performance, (2) levels of indebtedness, or (3) debt service requirements. Given the current level of indebtedness and debt service requirements of our subsidiaries, the primary risk of a financial maintenance covenant violation would be from a deterioration of a subsidiary's financial performance. If we fail to comply with our financial maintenance covenants, we will be in default under our debt agreements, which could cause the maturity of a substantial portion of our long-term indebtedness to be accelerated or limit our access to additional borrowings under these debt agreements as long as such covenant violation continues. If certain of our operating subsidiaries were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to pursue the collateral securing the debt, in which case we could lose the wireless infrastructure and the future cash flows associated with 

 33

such wireless infrastructure. We currently have no financial maintenance covenant violations; and based upon our current expectations, we believe our operating results will be sufficient to comply with our debt covenants over the near and long-term. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors."

The following are select ratios applicable to the financial maintenance and restrictive negative covenants under our debt agreements governing our 2012 Credit Facility and certain of our notes. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)As defined in the respective debt agreement.

(b)Failure to comply with the financial maintenance covenants would, absent a waiver, result in an event of default under the credit agreement governing our 2012 Credit Facility.

(c)Pursuant to the credit agreement governing our 2012 Credit Facility, the required covenant level is scheduled to be reduced to 5.50x starting March 31, 2014.

(d)Applicable for debt issued at CCOC or its subsidiaries.

(e)As of December 31, 2013, CCOC and its restricted subsidiaries could (1) borrow an additional $1.9 billion of debt and remain in compliance with this restrictive covenant, assuming no change in Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the credit agreement governing the 2012 Credit Facility) or (2) decrease Consolidated EBITDA by $344.1 million and remain in compliance with this restrictive covenant, assuming no change in their indebtedness. 

(f)Applicable for debt issued at CCIC or its subsidiaries.

 34

The following are select ratios applicable to the restrictive negative and cash trap reserve covenants under our securitization debt agreements.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

____________________

(a)As defined in the respective debt agreement. In the indentures for the 2010 Tower Revenue Notes, WCP Securitized Notes, and the 2009 Securitized Notes, the defined term for Debt Service Coverage Ratio is "DSCR."

(b)The 2010 Tower Revenue Notes, WCP Securitized Notes, and 2009 Securitized Notes also include the potential for amortization events, which could result in applying current and future cash flow to the prepayment of debt with applicable prepayment consideration. An amortization event occurs when the Debt Service Coverage Ratio falls below 1.45x, 1.15x or 1.15x, in each case as described under the indentures for the 2010 Tower Revenue Notes, WCP Securitized Notes, or 2009 Securitized Notes, respectively.

(c)Rating Agency Confirmation (as defined in the respective debt agreement) is also required.

Off-balance Sheet Arrangements

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K.

Accounting and Reporting Matters

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

The following is a discussion of the accounting policies and estimates that we believe (1) are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations or (2) require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. The critical accounting policies and estimates for 2013 are not intended to be a comprehensive list of our accounting policies and estimates. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for a summary of our significant accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP. In other cases, management is required to exercise judgment in the application of accounting principles with respect to particular transactions.

Revenue Recognition. 83% of our total revenue for 2013 consists of site rental revenues, which are recognized on a monthly basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the relevant contract (generally ranging from five to 15 years), regardless of whether the payments from the customer are received in equal monthly amounts. If the payment terms call for fixed escalations (as in fixed dollar or fixed percentage increases), prepaid rent or rent free periods, the revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the fixed, non-cancelable term of the contract. When calculating our straight-line rental revenues, we consider all fixed elements of tenant contractual escalation provisions, even if such escalation provisions contain a variable element (such as an escalator tied to an inflation-based index) in addition to a minimum. To the extent we acquire below-market tenant leases for contractual interests with tenants on the acquired wireless infrastructure (for example with respect to small cells) we record deferred credits and amortize such deferred credits to site rental revenues over their estimated lease term. Since we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis, a portion of the site rental revenue in a given period represents cash collected or contractually collectible in other periods. Our assets related to straight-line site rental revenues are included in "other current assets" and "deferred site rental receivables, net." Amounts billed or received prior to being earned, commonly referred to as prepaid rent, are deferred and reflected in "deferred revenues" and "deferred credits and other liabilities." See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

We provide network services relating to our wireless infrastructure, which represent approximately 17% of our total revenues for 2013. Network services and other revenue relate to installation services, as well as the following additional site development 

 35

services relating to existing or new antenna installations on our wireless infrastructure: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, zoning or permitting, fiber installations, other construction, or other services related to network development. Network services revenues are recognized after completion of the applicable service. We account for network services separately from the customer's site rental. 

See "Item 1. Business—CCUSA" for a further discussion of our business. 

Accounting for Acquisitions — General. As described in "Item 1. Business," much of our wireless infrastructure has been acquired in various transactions from the four largest U.S. wireless carriers (or their predecessors) through transactions consummated since 1999. We evaluate each of our acquisitions to determine if it should be accounted for as a business combination or as an acquisition of assets. For our business combinations, we allocate the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Any purchase price in excess of the net fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. See "Accounting for Acquisitions - Valuation" below. 

The determination of the final purchase price allocation could extend over several quarters resulting in the use of preliminary estimates that are subject to adjustment until finalized. Such changes could have a significant impact on our financial statements and could result in retrospective changes in results reported for the acquired business in prior periods in accordance with GAAP. As of December 31, 2013, the purchase price allocation for the AT&T Acquisition is preliminary and subject to change, including as result of the finalization of the valuation of certain tangible and intangible assets and certain liabilities. 

Accounting for Acquisitions — Leases. With respect to business combinations that include towers that we lease and operate, such as the T-Mobile, Sprint, and AT&T leased and subleased towers, we evaluate such agreements to determine treatment as capital or operating leases. The evaluation of such agreements for capital or operating lease treatment includes consideration of each of the lease classification criteria under ASC 840-10-25, namely (1) the transfer of ownership provisions, (2) the existence of bargain purchase options, (3) the length of the remaining lease term, and (4) the present value of the minimum lease payments. With respect to the AT&T Acquisition, T-Mobile Acquisition, and the Sprint Towers acquired in the acquisition of Global Signal, we determined that the tower leases were capital leases and the underlying land leases were operating leases based upon the lease term criterion, after considering the fragmentation criteria applicable under ASC 840-10-25 to leases involving both land and buildings (i.e., towers). We determined that the fragmentation criteria was met, and the tower leases could be accounted for as capital leases apart from the land leases, which are accounted for as operating leases, since (1) the fair value of the land in both business combinations was greater than 25% of the total fair value of the leased property at inception and (2) the tower lease expirations occur beyond 75% of the estimated economic life of the tower assets.

Accounting for Acquisitions — Valuation. As of December 31, 2013, our largest asset was property and equipment, which primarily consists of wireless infrastructure, followed by intangible assets and goodwill (approximately $4.1 billion and $4.9 billion in net book value, respectively). Approximately $3.7 billion net book value at December 31, 2013 of our identifiable intangibles relate to the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the nature and composition of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets.

The fair value of the vast majority of our assets and liabilities is determined by using either:

(1)estimates of replacement costs (for tangible fixed assets such as towers), or

(2)discounted cash flow valuation methods (for estimating identifiable intangibles such as site rental contracts and customer relationships and above-market and below-market leases).

The purchase price allocation requires subjective estimates that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements, including the amount of depreciation, amortization, and accretion expense. The most important estimates for measurement of tangible fixed assets are (1) the cost to replace the asset with a new asset and (2) the economic useful life after giving effect to age, quality, and condition. The most important estimates for measurement of intangible assets are (1) discount rates and (2) timing and amount of cash flows including estimates regarding customer renewals and cancellations. The most important estimates for measurement of above and below-market leases is the determination of (1) favorablility or unfavorability to the current market terms and (2) applicable lease term, including whether renewals or extensions should be measured. With respect to business combinations that include towers that we lease and operate, such as the T-Mobile, Sprint, and AT&T leased and subleased towers, we evaluate such agreements to determine treatment as capital or operating leases and identification of any bargain purchase options. 

 36

We record the fair value of obligations to perform certain asset retirement activities, including requirements, pursuant to our ground leases or easements, to remove wireless infrastructure or remediate the land upon which our wireless infrastructure resides. In determining the fair value of these asset retirement obligations we must make several subjective and highly judgmental estimates such as those related to: (1) timing of cash flows, (2) future costs, (3) discount rates, and (4) the probability of enforcement to remove the wireless infrastructure or remediate the land. See note 2 to our consolidated financial statements.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Useful Lives. We are required to make subjective assessments as to the useful lives of our tangible and intangible assets for purposes of determining depreciation, amortization, and accretion expense that, if incorrectly estimated, could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation expense for our property and equipment is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of our various classes of tangible assets. The substantial portion of our property and equipment represents the cost of our wireless infrastructure which is depreciated with an estimated useful life equal to the shorter of (1) 20 years or (2) the term of the lease (including optional renewals) for the land interests under the wireless infrastructure.

The useful life of our intangible assets is estimated based on the period over which the intangible asset is expected to benefit us and gives consideration to the expected useful life of other assets to which the useful life may relate. Amortization expense for intangible assets is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of each of the intangible assets. The useful life of the site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets is limited by the maximum depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure (20 years), as a result of the interdependency of the wireless infrastructure and site rental contracts and customer relationships. In contrast, the site rental contracts and customer relationships are estimated to provide economic benefits for several decades because of the low rate of customer cancellations and high rate of renewals experienced to date. Thus, while site rental contracts and customer relationships are valued based upon the fair value of the site rental contracts and customer relationships which includes assumptions regarding both (1) customers' exercise of optional renewals contained in the acquired contracts and (2) renewals of the acquired contracts past the contractual term including exercisable options, the site rental contracts are amortized over a period not to exceed 20 years as a result of the useful life being limited by the depreciable life of the wireless infrastructure.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Intangibles. We review the carrying values of property and equipment, intangible assets, or other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We utilize the following dual grouping policy for purposes of determining the unit of account for testing impairment of the site rental contracts and customer relationships:

(1)we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups, and

(2)we separately pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate.

We first pool site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment into portfolio groups for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing, because we view wireless infrastructure as portfolios and wireless infrastructure in a given portfolio and its related customer contracts are not largely independent of the other wireless infrastructure in the portfolio. We re-evaluate the appropriateness of the pooled groups at least annually. This use of grouping is based in part on (1) our limitations regarding disposal of wireless infrastructure, (2) the interdependencies of wireless infrastructure portfolios, and (3) the manner in which wireless infrastructure is traded in the marketplace. The vast majority of our site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets and property and equipment are pooled into the U.S. owned wireless infrastructure group. Secondly, and separately, we pool site rental contracts and customer relationships by significant customer or by customer grouping for individually insignificant customers, as appropriate, for purposes of determining the unit of account for impairment testing because we associate the value ascribed to site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets to the underlying contracts and related customer relationships acquired.

Our determination that an adverse event or change in circumstance has occurred that indicates that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable will generally involve (1) a deterioration in an asset's financial performance compared to historical results, (2) a shortfall in an asset's financial performance compared to forecasted results, or (3) changes affecting the utility and estimated future demands for the asset. When considering the utility of our assets, we consider events that would meaningfully impact (1) our wireless infrastructure or (2) our customer relationships. For example, consideration would be given to events that impact (1) the structural integrity and longevity of our wireless infrastructure or (2) our ability to derive benefit from our existing customer relationships, including events such as bankruptcy or insolvency or loss of a significant customer. During 2013, there were no events or circumstances that caused us to review the carrying value of our intangible assets or property and equipment due in part to our assets performing consistently with or better than our expectations.

 37

If the sum of the estimated future cash flows (undiscounted) from an asset, or portfolio group, significant customer or customer group (for individually insignificant customers), as applicable, is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss may be recognized. If the carrying value were to exceed the undiscounted cash flows, measurement of an impairment loss would be based on the fair value of the asset, which is based on an estimate of discounted future cash flows. The most important estimates for such calculations of undiscounted cash flows are (1) the expected additions of new tenants and equipment on our wireless infrastructure and (2) estimates regarding customer cancellations and renewals of contracts. We could record impairments in the future if changes in long-term market conditions, expected future operating results or the utility of the assets results in changes for our impairment test calculations which negatively impact the fair value of our property and equipment and intangible assets, or if we changed our unit of account in the future.

When grouping assets into pools for purposes of impairment evaluation, we also consider individual towers, nodes, and third party land interests within a grouping for which we currently have no tenants. Approximately 2% of our total towers currently have no tenants. We continue to pay operating expenses on these towers in anticipation of obtaining tenants on these towers in the future, primarily because of the individual tower site demographics. We estimate, based on current visibility, potential tenants on over half of these towers. To the extent we do not believe there are long-term prospects of obtaining tenants on an individual tower, node, or third party land interest and all other possible avenues for recovering the carrying value has been exhausted, including sale of the asset, we appropriately reduce the carrying value of such assets to fair value.

Accounting for Long-Lived Assets — Impairment Evaluation — Goodwill. Nearly all of our goodwill is recorded at CCUSA. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, regardless of whether adverse events or changes in circumstances have occurred. The annual test begins with goodwill and all intangible assets being allocated to applicable reporting units. We then perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If it is concluded that it is "more likely than not" that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Our reporting units are the operating segments (CCUSA and CCAL) since segment management operates their respective wireless infrastructure portfolios as a single network. 

We performed our most recent annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2013, which resulted in no impairments. This assessment included consideration of our market capitalization which exceeded over three times the aggregate carrying amount of the reporting units as of December 31, 2013. 

Deferred Income Taxes. We record deferred income tax assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet related to events that impact our financial statements and tax returns in different periods. In order to compute these deferred tax balances, we first analyze the differences between the book basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities (referred to as "temporary differences"). These temporary differences are then multiplied by current tax rates to arrive at the balances for the deferred income tax assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets that do not meet the "more likely than not" realization threshold. We recognize a tax position if it is more likely than not it will be sustained upon examination. The tax position is measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. 

If our expectations about the future tax consequences of past events should prove to be inaccurate, the balances of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities could require significant adjustments in future periods. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards is dependent, in part, upon our having sufficient future earnings to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards before they expire. If market conditions change materially and we determine that we will be unable to generate sufficient taxable income in the future to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, we would be required to record an additional valuation allowance, which would reduce our earnings. Such adjustments could cause a material effect on our results of operations for the period of the adjustment. The change in our valuation allowance has no effect on our cash flows.

From and after January 1, 2014, the date on which we commenced operating as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax to the extent we distribute our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. As a result, while we will still be permitted to use NOLs to offset REIT taxable income, we do not expect to pay taxes on our REIT taxable income, and therefore we do not expect to be able to realize such deferred tax assets. We will also have TRSs consisting of our tower operations in Australia and, initially, our small cells, that will continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income taxes and to foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located.

For a further discussion of our benefit (provision) for income taxes and our REIT conversion, see "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments" and notes 10 and 20 to our consolidated financial statements.

Impact of Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted and Those Adopted in 2013 

None.

 38

Non-GAAP Financial Measures

Our measurement of profit or loss currently used to evaluate the operating performance of our operating segments is earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, and accretion, as adjusted, or Adjusted EBITDA. Our definition of Adjusted EBITDA is set forth in "Item 7. MD&A—Results of Operations—Comparison of Operating Segments." Our measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, including companies in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure, and is not a measure of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating income or loss, net income or loss, net cash provided by (used for) operating, investing and financing activities, or other income statement or cash flow statement data prepared in accordance with GAAP.

We believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to an investor in evaluating our operating performance because:

•it is the primary measure used by our management to evaluate the economic productivity of our operations, including the efficiency of our employees and the profitability associated with their performance, the realization of contract revenue under our long-term contracts, our ability to obtain and maintain our customers, and our ability to operate our wireless infrastructure effectively;

•it is the primary measure of profit and loss used by management for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;

•it is similar to the measure of current financial performance generally used in our debt covenant calculations;

•although specific definitions may vary, it is widely used in the tower sector and other similar providers of wireless infrastructure to measure operating performance without regard to items such as depreciation, amortization and accretion, which can vary depending upon accounting methods and the book value of assets; and

•we believe it helps investors meaningfully evaluate and compare the results of our operations (1) from period to period and (2) to our competitors by removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization and accretion) from our operating results.

Our management uses Adjusted EBITDA:

•with respect to compliance with our debt covenants, which require us to maintain certain financial ratios including, or similar to, Adjusted EBITDA;

•as the primary measure of profit and loss for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to, and assessing the performance of, our operating segments;

•as a performance goal in employee annual incentive compensation;

•as a measurement of operating performance because it assists us in comparing our operating performance on a consistent basis as it removes the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest charges from our outstanding debt) and asset base (primarily depreciation, amortization, and accretion) from our operating results;

•in presentations to our board of directors to enable it to have the same measurement of operating performance used by management;

•for planning purposes, including preparation of our annual operating budget;

•as a valuation measure in strategic analyses in connection with the purchase and sale of assets; and

•in determining self-imposed limits on our debt levels, including the evaluation of our leverage ratio and interest coverage ratio.

There are material limitations to using a measure such as Adjusted EBITDA, including the difficulty associated with comparing results among more than one company, including our competitors, and the inability to analyze certain significant items, including depreciation and interest expense, that directly affect our net income or loss. Management compensates for these limitations by considering the economic effect of the excluded expense items independently as well as in connection with their analysis of net income (loss).

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk