Item 1A. Risk Factors

You should carefully consider all of the risks described below, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities.

Our business depends on the demand for wireless communications and wireless infrastructure, and we may be adversely affected by any slowdown in such demand. Additionally, a reduction in carrier network investment may materially and adversely affect our business (including reducing demand for new tenant additions or network services).

Demand for our wireless infrastructure depends on the demand for antenna space from our customers, which, in turn, depends on the demand for wireless voice and data services by their customers. The willingness of our customers to utilize our wireless infrastructure, or renew or extend existing contracts on our wireless infrastructure, is affected by numerous factors, including:

•consumer demand for wireless services;

•availability or capacity of our wireless infrastructure or associated land interests;

•location of our wireless infrastructure;

•financial condition of our customers, including their availability or cost of capital;

•willingness of our customers to maintain or increase their capital expenditures;

•increased use of network sharing, roaming, joint development, or resale agreements by our customers;

•mergers or consolidations among our customers;

•changes in, or success of, our customers' business models;

•governmental regulations, including local or state restrictions on the proliferation of wireless infrastructure;

•cost of constructing wireless infrastructure;

•technological changes, including those affecting (1) the number or type of wireless infrastructure or other communications sites needed to provide wireless communications services to a given geographic area or (2) the obsolescence of certain existing wireless networks; or

•our ability to efficiently satisfy our customers' service requirements.

 7

A slowdown in demand for wireless communications or our wireless infrastructure may negatively impact our growth or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us. If our customers or potential customers are unable to raise adequate capital to fund their business plans, as a result of disruptions in the financial and credit markets or otherwise, they may reduce their spending, which could adversely affect our anticipated growth or the demand for our wireless infrastructure or network services. 

Historically, the amount of our customers' network investment is cyclical and has varied based upon the various matters described in these risk factors. Changes in carrier network investment typically impact the demand for our wireless infrastructure. As a result, changes in carrier plans such as delays in the implementation of new systems, new technologies, including with respect to the use of small cells, or plans to expand coverage or capacity may reduce demand for our wireless infrastructure. Furthermore, the wireless communication industry could experience a slowdown or slowing growth rates as a result of numerous factors, including a reduction in consumer demand for wireless services or general economic conditions. There can be no assurances that weakness or uncertainty in the economic environment will not adversely impact the wireless communications industry, which may materially and adversely affect our business, including by reducing demand for our wireless infrastructure or network services. In addition, a slowdown may increase competition for site rental customers or network services. A wireless communications industry slowdown or a reduction in carrier network investment may materially and adversely affect our business.

A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a small number of customers, and the loss, consolidation or financial instability of any of our limited number of customers may materially decrease revenues or reduce demand for our wireless infrastructure and network services.

For 2013, approximately 88% of our consolidated revenues were derived from Sprint, T-Mobile, AT&T, and Verizon Wireless, which represented 27%, 23%, 22%, and 16%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues, respectively, after giving effect to T-Mobile's acquisition of MetroPCS (completed in April 2013), Sprint's acquisition of Clearwire (completed in July 2013), and AT&T's pending acquisition of Leap Wireless. The loss of any one of our large customers as a result of consolidation, merger, bankruptcy, insolvency, network sharing, roaming, joint development, resale agreements by our customers or otherwise may result in (1) a material decrease in our revenues, (2) uncollectible account receivables, (3) an impairment of our deferred site rental receivables, wireless infrastructure assets, site rental contracts and customer relationships intangible assets, or (4) other adverse effects to our business. We cannot guarantee that contracts with our major customers will not be terminated or that these customers will renew their contracts with us. In addition to our four largest customers in the U.S., we also derive a portion of our revenues and anticipated future growth from customers offering or contemplating offering emerging wireless services; such customers are smaller or have less financial resources than our four largest customers, have business models which may not be successful, or may require additional capital. See also "Item 1. Business—The Company."

Such consolidation among our customers will likely result in duplicate or overlapping parts of networks, for example where they are co-residents on a tower, which may result in the termination or non-renewal of customer contracts and impact revenues from our wireless infrastructure. We expect that any termination of customer contracts as a result of this potential consolidation would be spread over multiple years as existing contracts expire. In addition, consolidation may result in a reduction in such customers' future capital expenditures in the aggregate because their expansion plans may be similar. Wireless carrier consolidation could decrease the demand for our wireless infrastructure, which in turn may result in a reduction in our revenues or cash flows. See note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recently completed or pending customer consolidations. See "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview" for further discussion of our customers' network enhancement deployments and any related non-renewal of customer contracts. 

Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to react to changes in our business, and the terms of our debt instruments limit our ability to take a number of actions that our management might otherwise believe to be in our best interests. In addition, if we fail to comply with our covenants, our debt could be accelerated.

As a result of our substantial indebtedness:

•we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic or industry conditions;

•we may find it more difficult to obtain additional financing to fund discretionary investments or other general corporate requirements or to refinance our existing indebtedness;

•we are or will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal or interest on our debt, thereby reducing the available cash flows to fund other projects, including the discretionary investments discussed in "Item 1. Business;"

•we may have limited flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or in the industry;

•we may have a competitive disadvantage relative to other companies in our industry with less debt;

•we may be adversely impacted by changes in interest rates;

•we may be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity or sell some of our assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, in order to meet payment obligations;

 8

•we may be limited in our ability to take advantage of strategic business opportunities, including wireless infrastructure development or mergers and acquisitions; or

•we could fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT as a result of limitations on our ability to declare and pay dividends to stockholders as a result of restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. 

Currently we have debt instruments in place that limit in certain circumstances our ability to incur indebtedness, pay dividends, create liens, sell assets, or engage in certain mergers and acquisitions, among other things. Certain of our subsidiaries, under their debt instruments, are also required to maintain specific financial ratios. Our ability to comply with the financial ratio covenants under these instruments or to satisfy our debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance. If we fail to comply with the debt restrictions, we will be in default under those instruments, which in some cases would cause the maturity of a substantial portion of our long-term indebtedness to be accelerated. Furthermore, if the limits on our ability to pay dividends prevent us from satisfying our REIT distribution requirements, we could fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT. If these limits do not jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT but nevertheless prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax, and potentially a nondeductible excise tax, on the retained amounts. If our operating subsidiaries were to default on the debt, the trustee could seek to foreclose the collateral securing such debt, in which case we could lose the wireless infrastructure and the revenues associated with the wireless infrastructure. We are currently in compliance with our debt service coverage and leverage ratios. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt Covenants" for a further discussion of our debt covenants.

CCIC and CCOC are holding companies that conduct all of their operations through their subsidiaries. Accordingly, CCIC's and CCOC's respective sources of cash to pay interest or principal on their outstanding indebtedness are distributions relating to their respective ownership interests in their subsidiaries from the net earnings and cash flows generated by such subsidiaries or from proceeds of debt or equity offerings. Earnings and cash flows generated by their subsidiaries are first applied by such subsidiaries to conduct their operations, including servicing their respective debt obligations, after which any excess cash flows generally may be paid to such holding company, in the absence of any special conditions such as a continuing event of default. However, their subsidiaries are legally distinct from the holding companies and, unless they guarantee such debt, have no obligation to pay amounts due on their debt or to make funds available to us for such payment.

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. In the event we do not repay or refinance such indebtedness, we could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations.

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness (approximately $11.6 billion as of December 31, 2013), which we will need to refinance or repay. See "Item 7. MD&A—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for a tabular presentation of our contractual debt maturities. There can be no assurances we will be able to refinance our indebtedness (1) on commercially reasonable terms, (2) on terms, including with respect to interest rates, as favorable as our current debt, or (3) at all.

Economic conditions and the credit markets have historically experienced, and may continue to experience, periods of volatility, uncertainty, or weakness. Any renewed financial turmoil, worsening credit environment, weakening of the general economy, or further uncertainty could impact the availability or cost of debt financing, including with respect to any refinancing of the obligations described above or on our ability to draw the full amount of our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility that, as of February 14, 2014, has $1.1 billion of undrawn availability.

If we are unable to refinance or renegotiate our debt, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate enough cash flows from operations or that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt or fund our planned capital expenditures. In such an event, we could face substantial liquidity issues and might be required to issue equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, or sell some of our assets to meet our debt payment obligations. Failure to refinance indebtedness when required could result in a default under such indebtedness. Assuming we meet certain financial ratios, we have the ability under our debt instruments to incur additional indebtedness, and any additional indebtedness we incur could exacerbate the risks described above.

Sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

Future sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or other equity related securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of February 14, 2014, we had 334.1 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition, we reserved 12.5 million and 13.2 million, respectively, of shares of common stock for issuance under our various stock compensation plans and our 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. The dividends on our 4.50% Mandatory Preferred Stock may also be paid in cash or, subject to certain limitations, shares of common stock or any combination of cash and shares of common stock.

 9

In addition, a small number of stockholders own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. If any one of these stockholders, or any group of our stockholders, sells a large quantity of shares of our common stock, or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell a large quantity of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock may significantly decline.

As a result of competition in our industry, including from some competitors with significantly more resources or less debt than we have, we may find it more difficult to achieve favorable rental rates on our new or renewing customer contracts.

Our growth is dependent on entering into new customer contracts as well as renewing or renegotiating customer contracts when existing customer contracts terminate. We face competition for site rental customers from various sources, including:

•other independent wireless infrastructure owners or operators, including towers, rooftops, water towers, small cells, broadcast towers, or utility poles;

•wireless carriers that own and operate their own wireless infrastructure and lease antenna space to other wireless communication companies; or

•new alternative deployment methods in the wireless communication industry.

Certain wireless carriers own and operate their own towers and small cells, and certain of such carriers are larger or have greater financial resources than we have. Our small cell operations may have different competitors than our traditional site rental business, including other owners of small cells or fiber, some of which have larger networks or greater financial resources than we have. Competition in our industry may make it more difficult for us to attract new customers, maintain or increase our gross margins, or maintain or increase our market share.

The business model for our small cell operations contains certain differences from our traditional site rental business, resulting in different operational risks. If we do not successfully operate that business model or identify or manage those operational risks, such operations may produce results that are less than anticipated.

The business model for our small cell operations contains certain differences from our traditional tower operations, including differences relating to customer contract terms, landlord demographics, ownership of certain network assets, operational oversight requirements (including requirements for service level agreements regarding network performance and maintenance), applicable laws and initial gross margins (although long-term gross margins are expected to be similar). While our small cell operations have certain risks that are similar to our tower operations, they also have certain operational risks that are different from our traditional site rental business, including the (1) use of CLEC status, (2) use of public rights-of-way, (3) use of poles owned solely by, or jointly with, third parties, or (4) risks relating to overbuilding. In addition, the rate at which wireless carriers adopt small cells may be lower or slower than we anticipate. Our small cell operations will also expose us to different safety or liability risks or hazards than our traditional site rental business as a result of numerous factors, including the location or nature of the assets involved. Because small cells are comparatively new technologies and are continuing to evolve, there may be other risks related to small cells of which we are not yet aware. 

New technologies may significantly reduce demand for our wireless infrastructure or negatively impact our revenues.

Improvements in the efficiency of wireless networks could reduce the demand for our wireless infrastructure. For example, signal combining technologies that permit one antenna to service multiple frequencies and, thereby, multiple customers may reduce the need for our wireless infrastructure. In addition, other technologies, such as WiFi, femtocells, other small cells, or satellite (such as low earth orbiting) and mesh transmission systems may, in the future, serve as substitutes for, or alternatives to, leasing that might otherwise be anticipated or expected on wireless infrastructure had such technologies not existed. Any significant reduction in wireless infrastructure leasing demand resulting from the previously mentioned technologies or other technologies may negatively impact our revenues or otherwise have a material adverse effect on us.

New wireless technologies may not deploy or be adopted by customers as rapidly or in the manner projected.

There can be no assurances that new wireless services or technologies will be introduced or deployed as rapidly or in the manner projected by the wireless or broadcast industries. In addition, demand or customer adoption rates for such new technologies may be lower or slower than anticipated for numerous reasons. As a result, growth opportunities or demand for our wireless infrastructure as a result of such technologies may not be realized at the times or to the extent anticipated.

 10

If we fail to retain rights to our wireless infrastructure, including the land interests under our towers, our business may be adversely affected.

Our property interests relating to the land interests on which our towers reside consist of leasehold and sub-leasehold interests, fee interests, easements, licenses, and rights-of-way. A loss of these interests may interfere with our ability to conduct our business or generate revenues. For various reasons, we may not always have the ability to access, analyze, or verify all information regarding titles or other issues prior to purchasing wireless infrastructure. Further, we may not be able to renew ground leases on commercially viable terms. Our ability to retain rights to the land interests on which our towers reside depends on our ability to purchase such land, including fee interests and perpetual easements, or renegotiate or extend the terms of the leases relating to such land. Approximately 9% of our site rental gross margins for the year ended December 31, 2013 are derived from towers where the leases for the land interests under such towers have final expiration dates of less than ten years. If we are unable to retain rights to the land interests on which our towers reside, our business may be adversely affected. 

Approximately 53% of our towers are leased or subleased or operated and managed under master leases, subleases, or other agreements with Sprint, T-Mobile, and AT&T. We have the option to purchase these towers at the end of their respective lease terms; such options are not firm commitments and are not required. We may not have the required available capital to exercise our right to purchase some or all of these towers at the time these options are exercisable. Even if we do have available capital, we may choose not to exercise our right to purchase these towers or some or all of the T-Mobile or AT&T towers for business or other reasons. In the event that we do not exercise these purchase rights, or are otherwise unable to acquire an interest that would allow us to continue to operate these towers after the applicable period, we will lose the cash flows derived from such towers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event that we decide to exercise these purchase rights, the benefits of the acquisition of these towers may not exceed the costs, which could adversely affect our business. Additional information concerning these towers and the applicable purchase options is as follows:

•Approximately 16% of our towers are leased or subleased or operated and managed for an initial period of 32 years (through May 2037) under master leases, subleases or other agreements with Sprint. We have the option to purchase in 2037 all (but not less than all) of the leased and subleased Sprint towers from Sprint for approximately $2.3 billion. 

•Approximately 15% of our towers are leased or subleased or operated and managed under a master prepaid lease or other related agreements with T-Mobile for a weighted-average term of approximately 28 years, weighted on site rental gross margin. We have the option to purchase the leased and subleased towers from T-Mobile at the end of the respective lease or sublease terms for aggregate option payments of approximately $2.0 billion, which payments, if exercised, would be due between 2035 and 2049. In addition, through the T-Mobile Acquisition (as defined below), there are another approximately 1% of our towers subject to a lease and sublease or other related arrangements with AT&T. We have the option to purchase these towers that we do not otherwise already own at the end of their respective lease terms for aggregate option payments of up to approximately $405 million, which payments, if exercised, would be due between 2018 and 2032 (less than $10 million would be due before 2025).

•Approximately 22% of our towers are leased or subleased or operated and managed under a master prepaid lease or other related agreements with AT&T for a weighted-average term of approximately 28 years, weighted on site rental gross margin. We have the option to purchase the leased and subleased towers from AT&T at the end of the respective lease or sublease terms for aggregate option payments of approximately $4.2 billion, which payments, if exercised, would be due between 2032 and 2048. 

Under master lease or master prepaid lease arrangements we have with T-Mobile, Sprint and AT&T, certain of our subsidiaries lease or sublease, or are otherwise granted the right to manage and operate, towers from bankruptcy remote subsidiaries of such carriers. If one of these bankruptcy remote subsidiaries nevertheless becomes a debtor in a bankruptcy proceeding and is permitted to reject the underlying ground lease, our subsidiaries could lose their interest in the applicable sites. If our subsidiaries were to lose their interest in the applicable sites or if the applicable ground leases were to be terminated, we would lose the cash flow derived from the towers on those sites, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We have similar bankruptcy risks with respect to sites that we operate under management agreements. 

Our network services business has historically experienced significant volatility in demand, which reduces the predictability of our results.

The operating results of our network services business for any particular period may vary significantly and should not necessarily be considered indicative of longer-term results for this activity. Our network services business may be adversely impacted by various factors including competition, economic weakness or uncertainty, our market share, or changes in the type or volume of work performed.

 11

The expansion or development of our business, including through acquisitions, increased product offerings or other strategic growth opportunities, may cause disruptions in our business, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operations or financial results. 

We seek to expand and develop our business, including through acquisitions (a recent example of which is the AT&T Acquisition), increased product offerings, or other strategic growth opportunities. In the ordinary course of our business, we review, analyze, and evaluate various potential transactions or other activities in which we may engage. Such transactions or activities could cause disruptions in, increase risk or otherwise negatively impact our business. Among other things, such transaction and activities may: 

•disrupt our business relationships with our customers, depending on the nature of or counterparty to such transactions and activities;

•direct the time or attention of management away from other business operations toward such transactions or activities, including integrations;

•fail to achieve revenue or margin targets, operational synergies or other benefits contemplated; 

•increase operational risk or volatility in our business; or

•result in current or prospective employees experiencing uncertainty about their future roles with us, which might adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key managers or other employees.

For example, the integration of the towers from the AT&T Acquisition is a significant undertaking and requires significant resources, as well as attention from our management team. In addition, the integration of these towers into our operations requires certain one-time costs for tasks such as tower visits and audits and ground and tenant lease verification. If we fail to successfully or efficiently integrate the towers from the AT&T Acquisition, we may not realize the benefits we expect from the AT&T Acquisition, and our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely affected. 

If we fail to comply with laws or regulations which regulate our business and which may change at any time, we may be fined or even lose our right to conduct some of our business.

A variety of federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations apply to our business, including those discussed in "Item 1. Business." Failure to comply with applicable requirements may lead to civil penalties or require us to assume indemnification obligations or breach contractual provisions. We cannot guarantee that existing or future laws or regulations, including state and local tax laws, will not adversely affect our business, increase delays or result in additional costs. These factors may have a material adverse effect on us.

If radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets or equipment on our wireless infrastructure are demonstrated to cause negative health effects, potential future claims could adversely affect our operations, costs or revenues.

The potential connection between radio frequency emissions and certain negative health effects, including some forms of cancer, has been the subject of substantial study by the scientific community in recent years. We cannot guarantee that claims relating to radio frequency emissions will not arise in the future or that the results of such studies will not be adverse to us.

Public perception of possible health risks associated with cellular or other wireless communications may slow or diminish the growth of wireless companies, which may in turn slow or diminish our growth. In particular, negative public perception of, and regulations regarding, these perceived health risks may slow or diminish the market acceptance of wireless communications services. If a connection between radio frequency emissions and possible negative health effects were established, our operations, costs, or revenues may be materially and adversely affected. We currently do not maintain any significant insurance with respect to these matters.

Certain provisions of our certification of incorporation ("Charter"), by-laws and operative agreements, and domestic and international competition laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or for us to acquire control of a third party, even if such a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.

We have a number of anti-takeover devices in place that will hinder takeover attempts or may reduce the market value of our common stock. Our anti-takeover provisions include:

•a staggered board of directors. which is currently being phased out but will not be fully declassified until 2016;

•the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock without approval of the holders of our common stock; and

•advance notice requirements for director nominations or actions to be taken at annual meetings.

 12

Our by-laws permit special meetings of the stockholders to be called only upon the request of our Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the board of directors, and deny stockholders the ability to call such meetings. Such provisions, as well as the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.

In addition, domestic or international competition laws may prevent or discourage us from acquiring wireless infrastructure in certain geographical areas or impede a merger, consolidation, takeover, or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.

We may be adversely effected by exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to our operations in Australia.

Our Australian operations expose us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For 2013, approximately 5% of our consolidated net revenues were denominated in Australian dollars. Over the past five years, the Australian dollar has strengthened by 27% against the U.S. dollar. We have not historically engaged in significant hedging activities relating to our Australian operations, and we may suffer future losses as a result of changes in currency exchange rates.

Future dividend payments to our common stockholders will reduce the availability of our cash on hand available to fund future discretionary investments, and may result in a need to incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to fund growth opportunities. In such event, the then current economic, credit market or equity market conditions may impact the availability or cost of such financing, which could hinder our ability to grow our per share results of operations.

In February 2014, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share to our common stockholders, which is expected to result in an annual aggregate payment of $470 million. See note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. Effective January 1, 2014, we commenced operating as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. To qualify and be taxed as a REIT, we will generally be required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income after the utilization of any available net operating loss carryforward (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) each year to our stockholders. As a result, we anticipate making distributions to our common stockholders in the form of dividends in the future. 

We have historically invested our cash from operations in discretionary investments such as (in no particular order): purchasing our common stock, acquiring or constructing wireless infrastructure, acquiring land interests under towers, improving or structurally enhancing our existing wireless infrastructure, or purchasing, repaying or redeeming our debt. Alternative means of accessing cash to fund future discretionary investments similar to those we have historically made, including through the credit or equity markets, either (1) may not be available to us or (2) may not be accessible by us at terms that would result in the investment of the net proceeds raised yielding incremental growth in our per share operating results. As a result, future dividend payments may hinder our ability to grow our per share results of operations or otherwise adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan.

Qualifying and remaining qualified to be taxed as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the US Internal Revenue Code. Failure to remain qualified as a REIT would result in our inability to deduct dividends to stockholders when computing our taxable income, which would reduce our available cash.

On January 1, 2014, we began operating as a REIT for federal tax purposes. As a REIT, we will generally be entitled to a deduction for dividends that we pay and therefore will not be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our net taxable income that is currently distributed to our stockholders.

We have received opinions from special REIT tax counsel ("Special Tax Counsel") to the effect that we are organized in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Code, and that our method of operation enables us to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2014. While we intend to operate so that we qualify as a REIT, given the highly complex nature of the rules governing REITs, the ongoing importance of factual determinations, and the possibility of future changes in our circumstances, no assurance can be given by Special Tax Counsel or by us that we will qualify as a REIT for any particular year. As such, we cannot guarantee that we will qualify or remain so qualified.

If, in any taxable year, we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT and are not entitled to relief under the Code, then:

•we will not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income;

•we will be subject to federal and state income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; and

•if such failure to qualify occurs after the effective date of our election to be taxed as a REIT for U.S. federal income 

 13

tax purposes, we would be disqualified from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we were so disqualified.

Although we may have federal net operating losses available to reduce any taxable income, to the extent our federal net operating losses have been utilized or are otherwise unavailable, any such corporate tax liability could be substantial, would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes and might necessitate the borrowing of additional funds or the liquidation of some investments to pay any additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment would be reduced.

Under the Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs or other non-qualifying assets. This limitation may affect our ability to make additional investments in non-REIT qualifying operations or assets, or in any operations held through TRSs. The net income of our TRSs is not required to be distributed to us, and income that is not distributed to us generally will not be subject to the REIT income distribution requirement. However, there may be limitations on our ability to accumulate earnings in our TRSs and the accumulation or reinvestment of significant earnings in our TRSs could result in adverse tax treatment. In particular, if the accumulation of cash in our TRSs causes the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs or certain other non-qualifying assets to exceed 25% of the fair market value of our assets at the end of any quarter, then we may fail to qualify as a REIT.

Complying with REIT requirements, including the 90% distribution requirement, may limit our flexibility or cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities, including certain discretionary investments and potential financing alternatives.

To qualify and be taxed as a REIT, we will generally be required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income after the utilization of any available net operating loss carryforward (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) each year to our stockholders. Our determination as to the timing or amount of future dividends will be based on a number of factors, including investment opportunities around our core business and the availability of our existing federal net operating losses of approximately $2.2 billion to reduce our REIT taxable income. In February 2014, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share to our common stockholders. See note 20 to our consolidated financial statements. Any such dividends, however, are subject to the determination of our board of directors based on then-current and anticipated future conditions, including our earnings, net cash provided by operating activities, capital requirements, financial condition, our relative market capitalization, our existing federal net operating losses, or other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. 

To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income (after the application of available net operating losses, if any), we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders for a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under the Code.

From time to time, we may generate REIT taxable income greater than our cash flow as a result of differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of nondeductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell assets at disadvantageous prices, or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT dividend requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Furthermore, the REIT dividend requirements may increase the financing we need to fund capital expenditures, future growth, or expansion initiatives, which would increase our total leverage.

In addition to satisfying the distribution test, to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes, we will need to continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets and the ownership of our capital stock. Compliance with these tests will require us to refrain from certain activities and may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-qualifying assets, the expansion of non-real estate activities, or investments in the businesses to be conducted by our TRSs, and to that extent, limit our opportunities and our flexibility to change our business strategy. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities in domestic or international markets may be adversely affected if we need or require the target company to comply with some REIT requirements prior to completing any such acquisition. In addition, our conversion to a REIT may result in investor pressures not to pursue growth opportunities that are not immediately accretive.

Moreover, if we fail to comply with certain asset ownership tests, at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification. As a result, we may be required to liquidate assets in adverse market conditions or forgo otherwise attractive investments. These actions may reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders.

 14

If we fail to pay scheduled dividends on the 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, in cash, common stock, or any combination of cash and common stock, we will be prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock, which may jeopardize our status as a REIT.

The terms of the 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock provide that, unless accumulated dividends have been paid or set aside for payment on all outstanding 4.50% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods, no dividends may be declared or paid on our common stock. If that were to occur, the inability to pay dividends on our common stock might jeopardize our status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See note 12 to our condensed consolidated financial statements.

We have limited experience operating as a REIT. Our failure to successfully operate as a REIT may adversely affect our financial condition, cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock, or our ability to satisfy debt service obligations.

We have limited operating history as a REIT. In addition, our senior management team has limited experience operating a REIT. We cannot assure you that our past experience will be sufficient to operate our company successfully as a REIT, including our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. Failure to maintain REIT status could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, or ability to satisfy debt service obligations. 

We expect to pursue certain REIT-related ownership limitations and transfer restrictions with respect to our capital stock.

In order for us to qualify as a REIT under the Code, shares of our capital stock must be owned by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (other than the first year for which an election to be taxed as a REIT has been made). Also, not more than 50% of the value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities such as private foundations) during the last half of a taxable year (other than the first year for which an election to be taxed as a REIT has been made). To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy other requirements as well. 

Our Charter does not currently contain REIT-related limitations on the ownership or restrictions on the transfer of our capital stock. During 2014, we intend to pursue the adoption (which may be effected by merger or otherwise) of customary REIT-related ownership limitations and transfer restrictions in our Charter (or the certificate of incorporation or other equivalent governing document of a successor entity) in order to protect our ability to remain qualified as a REIT. The actual provisions that we ultimately propose will depend on a number of considerations, and those proposed provisions will be subject to approval by our board of directors and, ultimately, a vote of our common stockholders. In general, we expect that the proposed provisions will provide that, among other things and subject to certain exceptions, no person may own, or be deemed to own by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, more than 9.8%, by value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or 9.8% in aggregate value of all classes and series of our capital stock. In addition, we expect our Charter will provide that no person may beneficially own shares of our capital stock to the extent such ownership would cause us to fail to qualify as a "domestically controlled qualified investment entity." We expect that the proposed provisions will provide that in the event any transfer of shares of stock or other event would result in a person ("Intended Transferee") beneficially or constructively owning shares in excess of an ownership limit or that would otherwise result in our disqualification as a REIT or cause us to fail to qualify as a "domestically controlled qualified investment entity," the number of shares that would cause a violation of the applicable limit, referred to as the "excess shares," will be automatically transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable organization selected by our board of directors. If a transfer to a trust would not avoid a violation of the ownership limitation provisions for some reason, we expect our proposed provisions to provide that such transfer of the excess shares to the Intended Transferee will be null and void and of no force or effect.

We expect our ownership limitations and transfer restrictions will provide that within a certain number of days after receiving notice of the transfer of excess shares to the charitable trust, the trustee of the trust will be required to sell the excess shares to a person who could own such shares without violating the applicable ownership limitation provision. The trustee, upon a sale of these excess shares, would distribute to the Intended Transferee an amount equal to the lesser of the price paid by the Intended Transferee for the excess shares or the net sales proceeds received by the trust for the excess shares. If the excess shares were a gift or were not a transfer for value, we anticipate that the provisions will provide that the trustee will distribute to the Intended Transferee an amount equal to the lesser of the fair market value of the excess shares as of the date of the automatic transfer to the trust or the sales proceeds received by the trust for the excess shares. Proceeds in excess of the amount distributable to the Intended Transferee would be distributed to the charitable beneficiary.

In addition, we expect that excess shares held in the trust would be deemed to have been offered for sale to us, or our designee, at a price per share equal to the lesser of (1) the price per share in the transaction that resulted in such transfer to the trust (or, in the case of a gift or other transaction not for value, the market price at the time of the gift or other transaction) and (2) the market price on the date we, or our designee, accept the offer. In such case, we would have the right to accept such offer until the trustee has sold the shares in the trust.

 15

To the extent we propose, and our common stockholders approve the adoption of, these types of customary REIT-related ownership limitations and transfer restrictions, such ownership limitations and transfer restrictions would be applicable to all classes and series of our capital stock, and such provisions could have the effect of delaying, deferring, or preventing a takeover or other transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which stockholders might believe to be otherwise in their best interest.

We expect any such ownership limitations or transfer restrictions will provide that our board of directors may, in its sole discretion, increase the 9.8% ownership limitation referred to above with respect to one or more stockholders, subject to such terms, conditions, representations, or undertakings as our board of directors deems appropriate.

Available Information and Certifications

We maintain an internet website at www.crowncastle.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are made available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://investor.crowncastle.com and at the SEC's website at http://sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You may also read or copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room.

In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, business practices, and ethics policy and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee are available through the investor relations section of our internet website at http://www.crowncastle.com/investor/corpGovernance.asp, and such information is also available in print to any stockholder who requests it.

We submitted the Chief Executive Officer certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") Listed Company Manual, relating to compliance with the NYSE's corporate governance listing standards, to the NYSE on June 21, 2013 with no qualifications. We have included the certifications of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties