PART I

Item 1. Business.

Introduction

The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on Net Sales for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2013 ("fiscal 2012"). The Home Depot stores sell a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products and lawn and garden products and provide a number of services. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. As of the end of fiscal 2012, we had 2,256 The Home Depot stores located throughout the United States including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam, Canada and Mexico. When we refer to "The Home Depot," the "Company," "we," "us" or "our" in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number is (770) 433-8211.

We maintain an Internet website at www.homedepot.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.

We include our website addresses throughout this filing for reference only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.

For information on key financial highlights, including historical revenues, profits and total assets, see the "Five-Year Summary of Financial and Operating Results" on page F-1 of this report and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

 1
Our Business

Operating Strategy 

In fiscal 2012, we continued to execute on our strategy focused on the following key initiatives:

•Customer Service. Our customer service initiative is anchored on the principles of creating an emotional connection with our customers, putting customers first, taking care of our associates and simplifying the business. We underscored the importance of this initiative in fiscal 2012 by retraining all U.S. store associates on our Customers FIRST program prior to the Spring selling season. During fiscal 2012, we continued to invest in information technology and made certain strategic acquisitions to serve our customers more effectively. Through these efforts, we have continually improved our customer satisfaction survey results. We also sought to maintain competitive wages and incentive opportunities to attract, retain and motivate our associates. 

•Product Authority. Our product authority initiative is facilitated by our merchandising transformation and portfolio strategy, which is focused on delivering product innovation, assortment and value. In fiscal 2012, we introduced a wide range of innovative new products to our professional and do-it-yourself customers, while remaining focused on offering every day values in our stores.

•Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency. We have advanced this initiative through building best-in-class competitive advantages in information technology and supply chain. During fiscal 2012, we completed the mechanization of our Rapid Deployment Center ("RDC") network, and we continue to focus on operating and optimizing our supply chain network. We also advanced this initiative through our continued focus on disciplined capital allocation and expense control, which drove higher returns on invested capital and allowed us to return value to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.

•Interconnected Retail. As customers increasingly expect to be able to buy how, when and where they want, we believe that providing a seamless shopping experience across multiple channels, with an expanded array of merchandise, will be a key enabler for future success. The interconnected retail initiative is woven throughout our business and connects our other three key initiatives. In fiscal 2012, we launched several projects to support this initiative, starting in the first quarter with the rollout of a significant upgrade to our website, which enhanced the layout, visual appearance and responsiveness of the site. We also began construction of a new distribution center to support direct-to-customer fulfillment, with a second distribution center also under development, and we added new customer call centers in Utah and Georgia. Lastly, we introduced new programs, such as Buy Online, Return In Store ("BORIS") and Buy Online, Ship to Store ("BOSS"), to expand upon Buy Online, Pick-Up In Store ("BOPIS"), which we introduced in fiscal 2011.

Customer Service  

Our Customers. The Home Depot stores serve three primary customer groups, and we have different customer service approaches to meet their particular needs:

•Do-It-Yourself ("D-I-Y") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers with specific product and installation questions both in our stores and through online resources and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to impart this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our D-I-Y customers.

•Do-It-For-Me ("D-I-F-M") Customers. These customers are typically home owners who purchase materials themselves and hire third parties to complete the project or installation. Our stores offer a variety of installation services targeted at D-I-F-M customers who select and purchase products and installation of those products from us in the store. Our installation programs include products such as carpeting, flooring, cabinets, countertops and water heaters. In addition, we provide professional installation of a number of products sold through our in-home sales programs, such as roofing, siding, windows, furnaces and central air systems. 

•Professional Customers. These customers are primarily professional remodelers, general contractors, repairmen, small business owners and tradesmen. We offer a variety of special programs to these customers, including delivery and will-call services, dedicated staff, expanded credit programs, designated parking spaces close to store entrances and bulk pricing programs for both online and in-store purchases. We recognize the unique service needs of the professional customer and use our expertise to facilitate their buying experience.

In fiscal 2012, we undertook a number of projects and new developments to enhance our customers' shopping experiences. In addition to retraining our associates on the Customers FIRST program, we rolled out the "First Phone Junior" to all of our 

 2
stores. This version combines the communication features of a phone with the product and inventory lookup features of our First Phone, but without its complex business analytics and product ordering features. We can now spread the basic functionality and customer service benefits of the First Phone throughout the store at a lower cost. We also implemented a new "Store to Store" feature, which allows our associates to look up inventory in other stores, reserve the inventory and complete the sales transaction for the customer. We continued to take tasking out of the stores so that our associates can focus on assisting customers. To improve our labor efficiency, we have developed tools for automated, in-aisle inventory management to replace our former manual, paper-driven processes. As of the end of fiscal 2012, approximately 57% of our store labor hours were dedicated to customer-facing activity, with a goal of reaching 60% by the end of fiscal 2013. 

In fiscal 2012, we continued to automate our special order and installation process to improve transparency and communication and to simplify the customer experience, and we launched MyInstall on our website, which allows our customers to schedule appointments and track their projects online. Our recent strategic acquisitions are also aimed at improving our customers' home improvement experiences. Red Beacon, acquired at the end of fiscal 2011, is a website that helps our D-I-F-M customers find professionals to help them complete home improvement projects. This acquisition enables us to deliver on consumer expectations by making it easier to get these projects done; it allows us to help our professional customers find jobs; and it builds relationships with our customers. We also acquired two companies that provided services to our customers – a flooring measurement company and a kitchen and bath refacing company. These acquisitions enable us to strengthen and unify our customers' home services experience under The Home Depot brand.

We help our professional, D-I-Y and D-I-F-M customers finance their projects by offering private label credit products in our stores through third-party credit providers. In fiscal 2012, our customers opened approximately 2.5 million new The Home Depot private label credit accounts, and at fiscal year end the total number of The Home Depot active account holders was approximately 10 million. Private label credit card sales accounted for approximately 22% of sales in fiscal 2012. In addition, to improve customer convenience at the register, we completed our rollout of PayPal® as an in-store payment option and, in certain stores, implemented a program for customers to receive an electronic copy of their receipt.

Our Associates. Our associates are key to our customer service initiative. We empower our associates to deliver excellent customer service through our Customers FIRST training program, and we have a number of Company-sponsored programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer and community service. At the end of fiscal 2012, we employed approximately 340,000 associates, of whom approximately 21,000 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly or temporary basis. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we seek to maintain competitive salary and wage levels in each market we serve. We measure associate satisfaction regularly and maintain multiple means of ensuring effective communications with our associates. We believe that our employee relations are very good. 

Product Authority

Our Products. Our product portfolio strategy is aimed at delivering innovation, assortment and value. A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 products during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary items. We also offer over 600,000 products through our Home Depot and Home Decorators Collection websites. To enhance our merchandising capabilities, we continued to make improvements to our information technology tools in fiscal 2012 to give our merchants and suppliers greater visibility into category and item performance and to continue to increase the localized assortment in our stores. We also acquired BlackLocus, Inc., a data analytics and pricing firm, which will bring additional tools and capabilities to support our merchandising team.

In fiscal 2012, we introduced a number of innovative and distinctive products to our customers at attractive values. Examples of these new products include the second generation of EcoSmart® LED light bulbs, including the only Daylight Downlight LED sold in retail; an improved version of Behr® Premium Ultra Interior Paint & Primer in One; appliances from Electrolux®, Whirlpool® and Frigidaire®; the second generation of Ryobi® lithium battery technology for power tools; a "click version" of tile with realistic wood looks from TrafficMaster® Allure™; and one inch cellular window blinds under our Home Decorators Collection brand.

During fiscal 2012, we offered a number of proprietary and exclusive brands across a wide range of departments, such as Husky® hand tools and tool storage, Defiant® door locks, Everbilt® hardware fasteners, Hampton Bay® lighting and fans, Vigoro® lawn care products, RIDGID® and Ryobi® power tools and Glacier Bay® bath fixtures. We also introduced the HDX brand in February 2012, with products in the tools and hardware, storage and cleaning categories. We will continue to assess strategic alliances and relationships with suppliers and opportunities to expand the range of products available under brand names that are exclusive to The Home Depot.

 3
From our Store Support Center, we maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality products directly from manufacturers around the world. Our merchant team identifies and purchases innovative products directly for our stores. Additionally, we have three sourcing offices located in the Chinese cities of Shanghai, Shenzhen and Dalian, as well as sourcing offices in Gurgaon, India; Rome, Italy; Monterrey, Mexico and Toronto, Canada.

Quality Assurance. We have both quality assurance and engineering resources that are dedicated to overseeing the quality of all of our products, whether they are directly imported, locally or globally sourced or proprietary branded products. Through these programs, we have established criteria for supplier and product performance that are designed to ensure that our products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local safety, quality and performance standards. We also have a Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Program designed to ensure that our suppliers adhere to the highest standards of social and environmental responsibility.

Energy Saving Products and Programs.  As an industry leader, The Home Depot is committed to doing the right thing for our customers and the environment. By providing consumers a selection of environmentally preferred products that help them save money, energy and water, we are helping to ensure a more sustainable future. Through our Eco Options® Program introduced in 2007, we have created product categories that allow consumers to easily identify products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air and sustainable forestry. As of the end of fiscal 2012, our Eco Options® Program has certified over 5,000 products. Through this program, we sell products such as ENERGY STAR® refrigerators, dishwashers, compact fluorescent light ("CFL") bulbs, EcoSmart® LED light bulbs, programmable thermostats, tankless "on demand" water heaters and other products, enabling our customers to save on their utility bills. LED light bulbs, which use approximately 85% less energy and last up to 20 years longer than traditional incandescent bulbs, continued to be one of our fastest growing categories for the year. We estimate that in fiscal 2012, sales of ENERGY STAR® qualified products helped consumers save over $700 million in annual utility costs. We also helped our customers save water through sales of WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, showerheads, aerators and toilets. Through the sales of these products, we estimate that we have helped consumers save over 30 billion gallons of water and over $200 million in water bills. 

In fiscal 2012, we made extensive updates to the Eco Options® page on our website to enable us to address growing customer demand for environmentally responsible and cost-saving products and projects. The newly enhanced site increases consumer awareness of the environmental impacts of various products, provides educational tips and identifies "green" projects. The site also helps consumers identify products included in the Eco Options® program, and it now includes a calculator to enable consumers to determine energy and water savings achievable by making small changes in their homes.

In partnership with the U.S. Green Building Council, we launched a website in fiscal 2012 to help our customers easily identify products with potential Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design ("LEED") point values. At the end of fiscal 2012, we had approximately 3,500 "LEED for Homes" products sold in our stores and online. The website, found at www.leed.homedepot.com, is designed to simplify the complexities of building green and arm our customers with the tools needed to navigate the LEED for Homes programs by providing tips, informative videos and educational content.

We continue to offer our nationwide, in-store CFL bulb recycling program launched in 2008. This service is offered to customers free of charge and is available in all U.S. stores. We also maintain an in-store rechargeable battery recycling program. Launched in 2001 and currently done in partnership with Call2Recycle, this program is also available to customers free of charge in all stores throughout the U.S. Through these recycling programs, in fiscal 2012 we helped recycle over 600,000 pounds of CFL bulbs and over 852,000 pounds of rechargeable batteries collected from our customers. In fiscal 2012, we also recycled over 98,000 lead acid batteries collected from our customers under our lead acid battery exchange program, as well as approximately 173,000 tons of cardboard through a nationwide cardboard recycling program across our U.S. stores. 

 4
Net Sales of Major Product Groups. The following table shows the percentage of Net Sales of each major product group (and related services) for each of the last three fiscal years:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net Sales outside the U.S. were $8.4 billion, $8.0 billion and $7.5 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Long-lived assets outside the U.S. totaled $3.1 billion, $3.1 billion and $3.2 billion as of February 3, 2013, January 29, 2012 and January 30, 2011, respectively.

Seasonality. Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs during our fourth fiscal quarter. Fiscal 2012 included 53 weeks, rather than 52 weeks. As a result, our fourth fiscal quarter in 2012 included an extra week, which increased sales for that quarter. 

Competition. Our industry is highly competitive, with competition based primarily on customer service, price, store location and appearance, and quality, availability and assortment of merchandise. Although we are currently the world’s largest home improvement retailer, in each of the markets we serve there are a number of other home improvement stores, electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores and, to a lesser extent, other retailers, as well as with installers of home improvement products. In addition, we face growing competition from online and multichannel retailers. 

Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business. We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations.

Disciplined Capital Allocation, Productivity and Efficiency

Logistics. Our supply chain operations are focused on creating a competitive advantage through ensuring product availability for our customers, effectively using our investment in inventory, and managing total supply chain costs. Our fiscal 2012 initiatives have been to further optimize and efficiently operate our network, build new logistics capabilities and improve our inventory management systems and processes.

Our distribution strategy is to provide the optimal flow path for a given product. RDCs play a key role in optimizing our network as they allow for aggregation of product needs for multiple stores to a single purchase order and then rapid allocation and deployment of inventory to individual stores upon arrival at the RDC. This results in a simplified ordering process and improved transportation and inventory management. To enhance our RDC network, we continued adding mechanization, and at the end of fiscal 2012, all 18 of our U.S. RDCs were mechanized. We also expanded our U.S. transload program for imported products to four facilities operated by third parties near ocean ports. Transload facilities allow us to improve our import logistics costs and inventory management by enabling imported product to flow through our RDC network. 

Over the past several years, we have centralized our inventory planning and replenishment function and implemented new forecasting and replenishment technology. This has helped us to improve our in-stock rates and our inventory productivity at the same time. At the end of fiscal 2012, over 91% of our U.S. store products were ordered through central replenishment.

In addition to our 18 RDCs in the U.S., at the end of fiscal 2012, we operated 33 bulk distribution centers, which handle products distributed optimally on flat bed trucks, in the U.S. and Canada. We also operated 36 conventional distribution centers, which include stocking, direct fulfillment and specialty distribution centers, in the U.S., Canada and Mexico. We remain committed to leveraging our supply chain capabilities to fully utilize and optimize our improved logistics network.

 5
Commitment to Environmentally Responsible Operations. The Home Depot is committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including energy usage, supply chain, store construction and maintenance, and, as noted above under "Energy Saving Products and Programs," product selection and delivery of product knowledge to our customers.

In fiscal 2012, we continued to implement strict operational standards that establish energy efficient practices in all of our U.S. facilities. These include HVAC unit temperature regulation and adherence to strict lighting schedules, which are the largest sources of energy consumption in our stores, as well as use of energy management systems in each store to monitor energy efficiency. We estimate that by implementing and utilizing these energy saving programs, we have saved over 5.5 billion kilowatt hours (kWh) since 2004, and we are on track to meet our goal of a 20% reduction in kWh per square foot in our U.S. stores by 2015.

Through our supply chain efficiencies described above under "Logistics," we are targeting a 20% reduction in our domestic supply chain greenhouse gas emissions from 2008 to 2015, which would equate to annual fuel savings of approximately 25 million gallons. We also continued to monitor our "carbon footprint" from the operation of our stores as well as from our transportation and supply chain activities. Through our energy conservation and supply chain initiatives, we reduced our absolute carbon emissions by approximately 777,000 metric tons in 2011 compared to 2010.

With respect to construction of our stores, we partnered with the U.S. Green Building Council and have built seven LEED for New Construction certified or similarly certified stores. In 2012, we opened a new store in Lodi, California and used a grant from the U.S. Department of Energy to help design, monitor and verify the energy savings at that store. The building is designed to consume substantially less energy than the 2007 90.1 ASHRAE standards established by the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, an international society that sets forth HVAC and refrigeration standards to promote sustainability. We also implemented a rainwater reclamation pilot in 2010. As of the end of fiscal 2012, we have retrofitted 81 of our stores with reclamation tanks to collect rainwater and condensation from HVAC units and garden center roofs, which is in turn used to water plants in our outside garden centers. In September 2011, we opened a store in St. Croix in the U.S. Virgin Islands with both ground mount and roof mount solar panel systems, and we estimate the combined total annual energy production of these systems to be over 580 megawatt hours.

Our efforts have resulted in a number of environmental awards and recognitions. For example, in 2012, we were named "Retail Partner of the Year" by the ENERGY STAR® division of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") for our overall excellence in energy efficiency, and we received the EPA's WaterSense® "2012 Associate Education Excellence Award." We were also recognized as a "High Performer" by the Carbon Disclosure Project.

We are strongly committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates and protecting the environment of the communities in which we do business. Our Environmental, Health & Safety ("EH&S") function is dedicated to ensuring the health and safety of our customers and associates, with trained associates who evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH&S policies are woven into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Some common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate's role and responsibilities; and awareness, communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and understanding of EH&S issues.

Interconnected Retail

Our interconnected retail initiative supports and connects our three other key initiatives. In fiscal 2012, we focused on leveraging technology to improve our customer's retail experience and provide better access to and information about our products. As described above, these efforts included information technology solutions that take tasks out of the store and free our associates to devote more time to customer-facing activities. They also included significant website enhancements that allow customers to more easily find and purchase an expanded array of products and provide them with flexibility and convenience for their purchases (for example, through our BOPIS, BORIS, BOSS and "Store to Store" programs). Through our website, which can be accessed through computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile devices, customers can purchase products and track their installation projects through MyInstall and can connect with our associates and with one another to gain product and project knowledge in areas that are important to them. For example, in fiscal 2012, we updated the Eco Options® page on our website to provide more information for our environmentally-minded customers, and we had convenience in mind when we introduced a mobile application that allows our customers to select and purchase products quickly. Furthermore, to increase the productivity and efficiency of our associates, merchants and suppliers and ensure that 

 6
the right product is in the right place to meet our customers' needs, we continued to develop our distribution forecasting and replenishment system for enhanced inventory management. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors.