Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 

The Company’s primary market risk exposures are interest rate risk and foreign currency exchange rate risk. The following table presents the Company’s aggregate fixed rate and variable rate domestic and foreign debt obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2014, with corresponding weighted-average interest rates sorted by maturity date. The table does not include extension options where available. Amounts include fair value purchase price allocation adjustments for assumed debt. The information is presented in U.S. dollar equivalents, which is the Company’s reporting currency. The instruments’ actual cash flows are denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars (CAD), and Chilean Pesos (CLP) as indicated by geographic description ($USD equivalent in millions). 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Based on the Company’s variable-rate debt balances, interest expense would have increased by $5.8 million in 2014 if short-term interest rates were 1.0% higher. 

The following table presents the Company’s foreign investments and respective cumulative translation adjustment (“CTA”) as of December 31, 2014. Investment amounts are shown in their respective local currencies and the U.S. dollar equivalents and CTA balances are shown in US dollars: 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The foreign currency exchange risk has been partially mitigated, but not eliminated, through the use of local currency denominated debt. The Company has not, and does not plan to, enter into any derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 

Currency fluctuations between local currency and the U.S. dollar during the period in which the Company held its investment result in a CTA, which is recorded as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The CTA amounts are subject to future changes resulting from ongoing fluctuations in the respective foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in exchange rates are impacted by many factors that cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy. Any change could have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the Company’s CTA balance. The Company’s aggregate CTA net gain balance at December 31, 2014, is $0.3 million.  

34 

Under U.S. GAAP, the Company is required to release CTA balances into earnings when the Company has substantially liquidated its investment in a foreign entity. During 2013, the Company began selling properties within its Latin American portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the Company continued selling properties in its Latin American portfolio and as a result substantially liquidated its investments in Mexico and Peru. Due to the substantial liquidation of its investments in Mexico and Peru, the Company recognized a loss from foreign currency translation in the aggregate amount of $134.4 million, after noncontrolling interest of $5.8 million.  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data