Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.  

General  

Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries (the “Company”) is a global professional services firm providing advice and solutions in the areas of risk, strategy, and human capital. The Company’s subsidiaries include Marsh, which provides risk and insurance services; Guy Carpenter, which provides reinsurance services; Mercer, which provides human resource and related financial advice and services; and Oliver Wyman Group, which provides management consulting and other services. The Company’s approximately 51,000 employees worldwide provide analysis, advice and transactional capabilities to clients in over 100 countries.  

The Company’s business segments are based on the services provided. Risk and Insurance Services includes risk management and insurance and reinsurance broking and services, provided primarily by Marsh and Guy Carpenter. Consulting, which comprises the activities of Mercer and Oliver Wyman Group, includes human resource consulting and related investment and outsourcing services, and specialized management, economic and brand consulting services.  

In the first quarter of 2010, Kroll completed the sale of Kroll Laboratory Specialists (KLS) and on August 3, 2010, the Company completed the sale of Kroll to Altegrity for cash consideration of $1.13 billion. The account balances and activities of Kroll and KLS were segregated and reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the accompanying consolidated statements of income. During the second quarter of 2009, Kroll sold Kroll Government Services (“KGS”), which has been classified as a discontinued operation. In 2008, the Company disposed of its U.S. and U.K. restructuring businesses to their respective management teams in separate leveraged buyouts.  

With the Kroll disposition completed in August 2010, along with the previous disposals of other businesses between 2008 and 2010, the Company has now divested its entire Risk Consulting and Technology segment. As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, based on the terms and conditions of the divestitures of the Corporate Advisory and Restructuring businesses (“CARG”) in 2008, the Company determined it has “continuing involvement” in those businesses, as that term is used in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5e. Therefore classification of CARG as discontinued operations is not appropriate, and their financial results in the current and prior periods are included in operating income. The runoff of the Company’s involvement in the CARG businesses is now managed by the Company’s corporate departments, and consequently, the financial results of these businesses are now included in “Corporate” for segment reporting purposes.  

We describe the primary sources of revenue and categories of expense for each segment below, in our discussion of segment financial results. A reconciliation of segment operating income to total operating income is included in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II Item 8 in this report. The accounting policies used for each segment are the same as those used for the consolidated financial statements.  

This MD&A contains forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. See “Information Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” at the outset of this report.  

Significant Developments  

The Company’s historical financial information should be viewed in light of the significant developments discussed below.  

   Ÿ    The sale of KLS in the first quarter of 2010 and Kroll in August of 2010. Both businesses have been reclassified as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The sale of Kroll Government Services (“KGS”) in the second quarter of 2009. The loss on the disposal and the results of KGS operations are included in discontinued operations.  

26  

Table of Contents 

   Ÿ    Resolution in June 2010 of the litigation brought by the Alaska Retirement Management Board (“ARMB”) on behalf of two Alaska benefit plans against Mercer, relating to work in the period 1992 to 2004. This settlement, in which Mercer expressly denied liability, resolved all claims against Mercer by the ARMB and State of Alaska related to this matter. Under terms of the settlement, Mercer paid $500 million, of which $100 million was covered by insurance.  

   Ÿ    The settlement in the fourth quarter of 2009 of the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits filed in 2004. As a result, the Company recorded a $205 million net charge in December 2009, which is tax deductible. Without admitting any liability or wrongdoing, the Company agreed to pay a total of $435 million to settle both lawsuits and received $230 million from its insurance carriers. A group of stockholders, representing approximately 4% of eligible shares, initially indicated their intent to opt out of this settlement, but subsequently agreed to opt in to the settlement for an additional payment of $25 million. This additional settlement cost was accrued in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009. All claims related to these lawsuits are now fully resolved.  

   Ÿ    The impact of acquisitions in the Risk and Insurance Services segment. In the first quarter of 2010, Marsh acquired Haake Companies, Inc., one of the largest insurance broking firms in the Midwest region and Thomas Rutherfoord, Inc., one of the largest insurance broking firms in the Southeast and mid-Atlantic regions of the U.S. In the second quarter of 2010, Marsh acquired HSBC Insurance Brokers Ltd. (“HIBL”), an international provider of risk intermediary and risk advisory services and the Bostonian Group Insurance Agency, Inc. and Bostonian Solutions, Inc. (collectively the “Bostonian Group”), one of the largest regional insurance brokerages in New England. In the fourth quarter of 2010 Marsh acquired Strategic Benefits Solutions, Inc. (“SBS”), a Georgia-based benefits brokerage and consulting firm and Trion Group, Inc. (“Trion”), an insurance consultant and broker in the United States that was the largest privately held employee benefits specialist in the nation. In September 2009, Marsh acquired International Advisory Services, Ltd., the largest independent manager of captives and third-party insurance companies in Bermuda. In December 2009, Marsh acquired the NIA Group, LLC, one of the largest independent insurance agencies in the Northeast and the 34th largest agency in the U.S. In April 2009, Guy Carpenter completed the acquisition of John B. Collins Associates, Inc., previously the fifth-largest reinsurance intermediary in the U.S. and seventh-largest in the world. In October 2009, Guy Carpenter completed the acquisition of London-based specialty reinsurance broker Rattner Mackenzie Limited from HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

   Ÿ    The impact of acquisitions made in the Consulting segment. In July 2010, Mercer acquired Innovative Process Administration (“IPA”), a provider of health and benefit recordkeeping and employee enrollment technology. In August 2010, Mercer acquired ORC Worldwide, a premier provider of HR knowledge, data and solutions for professionals in numerous industries. In January 2011, Mercer acquired Hammond Associates, the third largest investment consulting company for endowments and foundations in the U.S.  

27  

Table of Contents 

Consolidated Results of Operations  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Consolidated operating income was $939 million in 2010 compared with $778 million in the prior year. The 2010 results include a $400 million charge, net of insurance recoveries, for the resolution of the litigation brought by the ARMB and restructuring and other noteworthy charges of $139 million. The 2009 results include a $230 million charge, net of insurance recoveries, for the settlement of the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits filed in 2004 and restructuring and other noteworthy items of $264 million. Excluding these charges, consolidated operating income was $1.5 billion in 2010 compared with $1.3 billion in 2009.  

Risk and Insurance Services operating income increased $176 million to $972 million in 2010 compared with 2009, or 22%, resulting from revenue growth at both Marsh and Guy Carpenter, as well as a decrease of $77 million in restructuring and related charges.  

Consulting operating income decreased $276 million to $129 million in 2010 primarily due to the $400 million net charge related to the ARMB litigation settlements, partly offset by lower restructuring and other noteworthy items of $48 million. Excluding these items, Consulting operating income increased $76 million, or 16%.  

Corporate and other results were $162 million of expense in 2010 compared to net expense of $423 million in 2009. In 2010, Corporate and other expenses include restructuring and other noteworthy charges of $13 million, partly offset by $10 million of payments received by the Company related to CARG. In 2009, Corporate expenses include a net charge of $230 million related to settlements of the class action lawsuits described above and $33 million of restructuring and other noteworthy charges. Excluding these items, Corporate and other expenses decreased $1 million in 2010 compared with 2009.  

Discontinued operations include the operating results of Kroll for all years presented, including goodwill impairment charges of $315 million and $504 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively, the gain on the sale of Kroll and KLS in 2010 of $282 million, insurance recoveries of $16 million related to Putnam market-timing related matters in 2010 and the loss on the sale of KGS in 2009. Discontinued operations also include the accretion of interest related to an indemnity for uncertain tax positions provided as part of the purchase by Great-West Life Co. Inc., of Putnam Investments Trust from the Company in August 2007.  

28  

Table of Contents 

Consolidated net income attributable to the Company was $855 million in 2010, compared with $227 million in 2009.  

Consolidated Revenues and Expenses  

The Company conducts business in many countries, as a result of which the impact of foreign exchange rate movements may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Similarly, the revenue impact of acquisitions and dispositions may impact period-to-period comparisons of revenue. Underlying revenue measures the change in revenue from one period to another by isolating these impacts. The impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations, acquisitions and dispositions on the Company’s operating revenues is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.  

Revenue Details  

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.  

29  

Table of Contents [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.  

 (a) Includes revenue related to the Corporate Advisory and Restructuring business of $1 million and $127 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Revenue Details  

The following table provides more detailed revenue information for certain of the components presented above:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 * Components of revenue change may not add due to rounding.  

Revenue  

Consolidated revenue for 2010 increased 7% to $10.6 billion compared with $9.8 billion in 2009, reflecting a 3% increase in underlying revenue, a 3% increase due to acquisitions and a 1% positive impact of foreign currency translation. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 9% in 2010 compared with 2009. Underlying revenue increased 2% for the total Risk and Insurance Services segment, reflecting 2% increases in both Marsh and Guy Carpenter, partially offset by a 21% decrease in fiduciary interest income. Consulting revenue increased 5%, resulting from a 5% increase in Mercer and a 6% increase in the Oliver Wyman Group. On an underlying basis, revenue increased 3% reflecting a 2% increase in Mercer and a 7% increase in the Oliver Wyman Group.  

30  

Table of Contents 

Consolidated revenue for 2009 decreased 8% to $9.8 billion compared with $10.7 billion in 2008, reflecting a 3% decrease in underlying revenue and a 4% negative impact of foreign currency translation. Revenue in the Risk and Insurance Services segment decreased 3% in 2009 compared with 2008. Underlying revenue decreased 1% for the total Risk and Insurance Services segment, reflecting an 8% increase in Guy Carpenter, which was more than offset by a 1% decrease in Marsh and a 60% decrease in fiduciary interest income. Consulting revenue decreased 11%, resulting from a 9% decrease at Mercer and a 17% decline at the Oliver Wyman Group. On an underlying basis, revenue decreased 7% reflecting a 4% decrease in Mercer, and a 15% decrease in the Oliver Wyman Group.  

Expenses  

Consolidated operating expenses increased 6% in 2010 compared with the same period in 2009. Expenses in 2010 include the $400 net settlement at Mercer. In 2009, the Company recorded a $230 million charge, net of insurance recoveries, for the settlement of the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits filed in 2004. Restructuring and other noteworthy charges in 2010 of $139 million decreased $155 million from charges of $294 million in 2009. Excluding these charges, expenses were $9.1 billion in 2010 compared with $8.5 billion in 2009, an increase of 6%. The increase reflects a 1% increase due to the impact of foreign currency exchange, a 3% increase due to the impact of acquisitions and a 2% increase in underlying expenses. The increase in underlying expenses is due to higher pension, travel and entertainment, outsourcing and other outside services costs.  

Consolidated operating expenses decreased 10% in 2009 compared with the same period in 2008. In 2009, the Company recorded a $230 million charge, net of insurance recoveries, for the settlement of the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits filed in 2004. Restructuring and other noteworthy charges in 2009 of $294 million decreased $138 million from charges of $432 million in 2008. Excluding these charges, expenses were $8.6 billion in 2009 compared with $9.6 billion in 2008, or a decrease of 11%. The decrease reflects a 4% decline due to the impact of foreign currency exchange, a 1% decline due to the impact of dispositions and a 5% decline in underlying expenses. The decrease in underlying expenses is due to generally lower expenses, primarily in base salary, employee benefits, travel and entertainment, outside services, facilities, equipment and recoverable expenses from clients.  

Restructuring  

Actions Initiated in 2010  

In 2010, the Company implemented restructuring actions which resulted in costs totaling $114 million, primarily related to severance and benefits, and costs for future rent and other real estate costs. Approximately $63 million of these costs related to cost reduction activities for acquisitions made in 2010. These costs were incurred as follows: Risk and Insurance Services—$81 million comprising Marsh—$65 million (acquisition related—$46 million) and Guy Carpenter—$16 million (acquisition related—$6 million); Mercer—$25 million (acquisition related—$11 million); and Corporate—$8 million. These activities resulted in the elimination of approximately 450 positions at Marsh, 80 positions at Guy Carpenter, 240 positions at Mercer and 70 positions at Corporate. The annualized cost savings from these actions are expected to be approximately $100 million.  

Actions Initiated Prior to 2010  

Prior to 2010, the Company implemented several restructuring and cost-savings initiatives related to firm-wide infrastructure, organization structure and operating the Company’s business processes. During 2010, the Company incurred restructuring costs of $27 million in connection with actions initiated in prior years, primarily due to severance and related benefits and adjustments to the estimated future rent and real estate costs related to previously vacated space.  

Businesses Exited  

In February 2010, Kroll sold KLS, its substance abuse testing business for $110 million. On August 3, 2010, the Company completed the sale of Kroll to Altegrity for $1.13 billion. The account balances and  

31  

Table of Contents 

 activities of Kroll and KLS have been segregated and reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying financial statements for all periods presented. The gain on the sale of Kroll and related tax benefits and the after- tax loss on the disposal of KLS, along with Kroll’s and KLS’s 2010 and comparative results of operations are included in discontinued operations.  

During the second quarter of 2009, Kroll sold KGS. The results of operations and the loss on sale of KGS are included in discontinued operations.  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company sold its U.S. and U.K. restructuring businesses to their respective management teams in separate leveraged buyouts. Based on the terms and conditions of the disposals, the Company determined it has “continuing involvement” in these businesses, as that term is used in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5e. Therefore, the results of these businesses, including the loss on disposal, are included in continuing operations. The Company recorded a loss of $28 million on the disposition of the U.K. Corporate Advisory and Restructuring businesses. The net assets of these U.K. businesses were written-off upon transfer to the new owners. The Company will earn royalties on future revenue of these businesses over the next two years. The royalties will be recognized when earned under the terms of the contract and when collectability is reasonably assured. Through December 31, 2010, the Company has recognized $11 million of royalty payments related to the U.K. businesses. The transfer of the U.S. restructuring business was financed with a seller note. If the Company receives interest and principal payments as scheduled for the U.S. business, it will recover the value of the net assets transferred to the new owners and recognize a gain on the disposal of $18 million.  

In March 2010, the Company agreed to suspend collections of interest and principal payments on the seller financed note related to the U.S. restructuring business. The payments received prior to March 2010 were sufficient to allow the Company to recover the value of net assets transferred and recognize $1 million of gain. Although it is uncertain whether future payments will be received under the revised terms of the note, the Company has no remaining net investment in the U.S. restructuring business. Any future collections will be recognized as income, if and when received.  

Risk and Insurance Services  

In the Risk and Insurance Services segment, the Company’s subsidiaries and other affiliated entities act as brokers, agents or consultants for insureds, insurance underwriters and other brokers in the areas of risk management, insurance broking and insurance program management services, primarily under the name of Marsh; and engage in reinsurance broking, catastrophe and financial modeling services and related advisory functions, primarily under the name of Guy Carpenter.  

Marsh and Guy Carpenter are compensated for brokerage and consulting services primarily through fees paid by clients and/or commissions paid out of premiums charged by insurance and reinsurance companies. Commission rates vary in amount depending upon the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular insurer or reinsurer, the capacity in which the broker acts and negotiations with clients. Revenues are affected by premium rate levels in the insurance/reinsurance markets, the amount of risk retained by insurance and reinsurance clients themselves and by the value of the risks that have been insured since commission based compensation is frequently related to the premiums paid by insureds/reinsureds. In many cases, fee compensation may be negotiated in advance, based on the types and amounts of risks to be analyzed by the Company and ultimately placed into the insurance market or retained by the client. The trends and comparisons of revenue from one period to the next will therefore be affected by changes in premium rate levels, fluctuations in client risk retention, and increases or decreases in the value of risks that have been insured, as well as new and lost business, and the volume of business from new and existing clients.  

Marsh and Guy Carpenter receive interest income on certain funds (such as premiums and claims proceeds) held in a fiduciary capacity for others. The investment of fiduciary funds is regulated by state and other insurance authorities. These regulations typically provide for segregation of fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them. Interest income from these investments varies depending on the amount of funds invested and applicable interest rates, both of  

32  

Table of Contents 

 which vary from time to time. For presentation purposes, fiduciary interest is segregated from the other revenues of Marsh and Guy Carpenter and separately presented within the segment, as shown in the revenue by segments charts earlier in this MD&A.  

The results of operations for the Risk and Insurance Services segment are presented below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Revenue  

Revenue in Risk and Insurance Services increased 9% in 2010 compared with 2009 reflecting a 2% increase on an underlying basis, a 6% increase from acquisitions, and a 1% increase from the impact of foreign currency exchange translation.  

In Marsh, revenue in 2010 was $4.7 billion, an increase of 10% from the same quarter of the prior year, reflecting 2% growth in underlying revenue, a 6% increase from acquisitions and a 1% increase resulting from the impact of foreign currency translation. The underlying revenue increase of 2% was achieved despite the economic environment and the soft pricing environment in the global property-casualty insurance market. Marsh increased revenues in all its geographies, reflecting new business growth of 8%. Underlying revenue increased 8% in Latin America, 7% in Asia Pacific, 1% in U.S. / Canada and 3% in EMEA.  

Marsh completed several strategic acquisitions during 2010. In the first quarter of 2010, Marsh acquired Haake Companies, Inc., one of the largest insurance agencies in the Midwest, and Thomas Rutherfoord, Inc., one of the largest insurance broking firms in the Southeast and mid-Atlantic regions of the U.S. In the second quarter of 2010, Marsh completed the acquisition of HIBL, an international provider of risk intermediary and risk advisory services and the Bostonian Group, one of the largest regional insurance brokerages in New England. In the fourth quarter of 2010, Marsh acquired Trion, a large U.S. private benefit specialist and SBS, a Georgia-based benefits brokerage and consulting firm. In January 2011, Marsh acquired RJF Agencies, one of the largest independent insurance agencies in the upper Midwest. All of the acquisitions noted above, except HIBL relate to the Marsh & McLennan Agency. The Marsh & McLennan Agency acquisitions completed in 2010 have added approximately $200 million of annualized revenue.  

In March 2010, Marsh announced its approach to market remuneration and contingent commissions in the U.S. As previously announced, Marsh and McLennan Agency and Marsh’s affinity, sponsored program and personal lines businesses accept contingent commissions. Marsh does not accept contingent commissions on any placement for any U.S. clients served by the firm’s core brokerage operation. Marsh will continue to collect enhanced commissions with respect to its core brokerage operations, which are fixed in advance of insurance transactions and are not related to volume, retention, growth or profitability.  

Guy Carpenter’s revenue increased 7% to $975 million in 2010 compared with 2009, or 2% on an underlying basis. The increase in underlying revenue was due to continued strong new business and high client retention over the past two years. In April 2009, Guy Carpenter acquired John B. Collins Associates, Inc., previously the fifth-largest reinsurance intermediary in the U.S. and seventh-largest in the world. In October 2009, Guy Carpenter completed the acquisition of London-based specialty reinsurance broker Rattner Mackenzie Limited from HCC Insurance Holdings, Inc.  

33  

Table of Contents 

Fiduciary interest income was $45 million in 2010, a decrease of 16% compared with 2009, driven by lower interest rates.  

Revenue in Risk and Insurance Services decreased 3% in 2009 compared with 2008, reflecting a 4% negative impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations, a 1% decrease on an underlying basis partly offset by a 2% increase from acquisitions.  

In Marsh, revenue in 2009 decreased 5% from 2008, reflecting a 4% negative impact of foreign currency translation and a 1% decrease in underlying revenue. These results reflected the difficult economic environment, in addition to the pressure on insurance premium levels, commissions and fees. On a geographic basis, Marsh’s International revenue increased 2% on an underlying basis reflecting a 9% increase in Latin America and a 5% increase in Asia Pacific, reflecting strong new business growth on a global basis, partly offset by a decrease of 4% in the U.S. / Canada region.  

Guy Carpenter’s revenue of $911 million in 2009 increased 13% compared with the prior year, or 8% on an underlying basis. The increase in underlying revenue was primarily due to higher client revenue retention and an increase in new business. As noted above, in April 2009, Guy Carpenter completed the acquisition of John B. Collins Associates, Inc. and in October 2009, completed the acquisition of Rattner Mackenzie Limited. These acquisitions contributed 7% to the year-over-year revenue growth in 2009.  

Fiduciary interest income for the Risk and Insurance Services segment was $54 million in 2009, a decrease of 61% compared with the same period of 2008, driven by lower interest rates.  

Expense  

Expenses in the Risk and Insurance Services segment increased 7% in 2010 compared with 2009, reflecting a 6% increase from acquisitions and a 1% increase due to the impact of foreign currency translation. Expenses on an underlying basis were flat, as higher pension related expenses, travel and entertainment, and outsourcing costs were offset by a $77 million decrease in restructuring and related charges.  

Expenses in the Risk and Insurance Services segment decreased 10% in 2009, compared with the prior year. Underlying expenses decreased 8% with the remaining reduction due to the impact of foreign currency exchange of 4% partly offset by an increase of 1% due to the impact of acquisitions. The decline in underlying expenses reflects lower compensation and benefit costs due to reductions in the number of employees as a result of restructuring activities and a decrease in other operating cost categories. The decrease in other expenses includes a reduction in professional liability costs reflecting the impact of a $33 million charge recorded in the third quarter of 2008 and a reduction of $39 million in net settlement, legal and regulatory costs (reduced by insurance recoveries in 2009). The expense decrease also reflects lower restructuring and related charges in 2009 as compared with 2008.  

Consulting  

The Company conducts business in its Consulting segment through two main business groups. Mercer provides consulting expertise, advice, services and solutions in the areas of retirement, health & benefits, rewards, talent & communications, outsourcing, and investment consulting & management. Oliver Wyman Group provides specialized management and economic and brand consulting services.  

The major component of revenue in the Consulting segment business is fees paid by clients for advice and services. Mercer, principally through its health & benefits line of business, also earns revenue in the form of commissions received from insurance companies for the placement of group (and occasionally individual) insurance contracts, primarily life, health and accident coverages. Revenue for Mercer’s investment management business and certain of Mercer’s outsourcing businesses consists principally of fees based on assets under management or administration.  

Revenue in the Consulting segment is affected by, among other things, global economic conditions, including changes in clients’ particular industries and markets. Revenue is also affected by competition  

34  

Table of Contents 

 due to the introduction of new products and services, broad trends in employee demographics, including levels of employment, the effect of government policies and regulations, and fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. Revenues from the provision of investment management services and retirement trust and administrative services, which are expected to increase over time, are significantly affected by securities market performance.  

The results of operations for the Consulting segment are presented below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Revenue  

Consulting revenue in 2010 increased 5% compared with 2009, or 3% on an underlying basis. Mercer’s revenue was $3.5 billion in 2010, an increase of 5%. On an underlying basis, Mercer’s revenue increased 2%. Within Mercer’s consulting lines, revenue on an underlying basis in 2010 was flat compared with 2009, reflecting increases of 5% in health and benefits and 2% in rewards, talent & communications, offset by a 4% decline in retirement. The growth in health and benefits was driven by increases in all geographies. The increase in rewards, talent & communications was driven by a resurgence of demand for compensation surveys partially offset by lower rewards and talent consulting assignments concentrated in the first half of the year. Outsourcing revenue increased 3% on an underlying basis, driven by new client wins primarily in Australia. Investment consulting & management revenue increased 16% on an underlying basis, due to strong growth in all geographies. Oliver Wyman’s revenue increased 6% to $1.4 billion in 2010, or 7% on an underlying basis, driven by double-digit revenue growth within its financial services practice. Other areas, including the healthcare, transportation and consumer sectors also generated double-digit revenue growth.  

Consulting revenue in 2009 decreased 11% compared with the same period in 2008, or 7% on an underlying basis. Due to the difficult economic conditions, both Mercer and Oliver Wyman experienced decreased demand for consulting services in 2009. Mercer’s revenue decreased 9%, or 4% on an underlying basis, reflecting decreases in underlying revenue in consulting and outsourcing of 4% and 6%, respectively, partly offset by an increase in investment consulting and management of 6%. Within Mercer’s consulting lines, underlying revenue in retirement decreased 1% versus prior year, health and benefits decreased 1% and rewards, talent & communications decreased 17%. Oliver Wyman’s revenue decreased 17%, or 15% on an underlying basis, compared with the prior year.  

Expense  

Consulting expenses in 2010 increased 12% to $4.7 billion, or 10% on an underlying basis. Mercer recorded a net $400 million charge related to the Alaska settlement in 2010 and in 2009 recorded incremental costs of $30 million related to a professional liability settlement. Excluding these charges, expenses increased 3% on an underlying basis. This increase reflects the impact of higher pension related costs, meeting and training costs, recruitment and asset based fees partly offset by lower severance, restructuring and recoverable expenses from clients.  

Consulting expenses decreased 9% in 2009 compared with the same period in 2008, reflecting a 4% decrease from the impact of foreign exchange rates and a 6% decrease on an underlying basis. The decline in underlying expenses reflects a decrease in base salaries and employee benefits due to decreased staff levels, along with cost reductions in all discretionary expense categories and lower recoverable expenses from clients. These decreases were partly offset by an increase in professional liability costs of approximately $30 million, primarily reflecting a legal settlement at Mercer, and higher severance costs at Oliver Wyman due to capacity reductions.  

35  

Table of Contents 

Corporate and Other  

With the disposition of Kroll in August 2010, along with previous divestiture transactions between 2008 and 2010, the Company has now divested its entire Risk Consulting and Technology segment. As described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, based on the terms and conditions of the divestitures of the CARG businesses in 2008, the Company determined it has “continuing involvement” in those businesses, as that term is used in SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5e. Therefore, classification of the CARG businesses as discontinued operations is not appropriate, and their financial results in the current and prior periods are included in operating income. The runoff of the Company’s involvement in the CARG businesses is now managed by the Company’s corporate departments, and consequently, the financial results of these businesses are now included in “Corporate” for segment reporting purposes.  

The following results of Corporate and Other includes the Corporate Advisory and Restructuring operations:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Before intercompany eliminations  

Corporate expenses in 2010 were $172 million compared to $420 million in 2009. The decrease is due to the impact of a $230 million net charge incurred in 2009 related to the settlement of the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits. The decrease in Corporate expense in 2010 compared to 2009 also reflects the impact of lower restructuring charges partly offset by higher consulting fees. The decrease in Corporate Advisory and Restructuring expenses in 2010 is due to the impact of $10 million of payments received in 2010 related to the disposal of this unit in 2008 compared with $1 million in 2009. These payments are classified as a recovery of expenses previously incurred as a result of the disposal transaction.  

Corporate expenses in 2009 were $420 million compared to $255 million in 2008. Expenses in 2009 include a $230 million charge related to the settlement of the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits described above. Restructuring and related charges in 2009 were $31 million compared with $85 million in 2008. Excluding these charges, expenses would have decreased 6%. This decrease is due to lower consulting and legal fees in 2009 compared to 2008. Expenses for the Corporate Advisory and Restructuring business reflect a goodwill impairment charge of $36 million in 2008.  

Discontinued Operations  

On August 3, 2010, the Company completed its sale of Kroll to Altegrity for cash proceeds of $1.13 billion. In the first quarter of 2010, Kroll completed the sale of KLS. The account balances and activities of Kroll and KLS have been segregated and reported as discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2009. The gain on the sale of Kroll and related tax benefits and the after-tax loss on the sale of KLS, along with Kroll’s and KLS’s 2010 and comparative results of operations are included in discontinued operations.  

Discontinued operations in 2010 and 2009 includes the accretion of interest related to an indemnity for uncertain tax positions provided as part of the purchase by Great-West Lifeco, Inc. of Putnam Investments Trust from the Company in August 2007. Discontinued operations in 2010 includes $16 million for insurance recoveries for costs incurred in prior years related to Putnam.  

In the second quarter of 2009 Kroll completed the sale of KGS. The loss on the sale of KGS and comparative results of operations are included in discontinued operations.  

36  

Table of Contents 

Results of discontinued operations in 2008 include the operating results of Kroll, KLS and KGS and the effects of three other discontinued operations—Putnam, Mediservice and Kroll Crucible—which are discussed in more detail below.  

With regard to Putnam, discontinued operations in 2008 includes (1) the impact of immaterial corrections and other adjustments to the fourth quarter of 2007 tax provision related to the transaction, (2) adjustments to the tax provision to reflect differences between tax returns filed in 2008 and the initial estimated provisions, and (3) interest on liabilities for certain tax-related indemnities provided as part of the transaction. In the first quarter of 2008, Marsh completed the sale of Mediservice, a claims administration operation in Brazil. The gain on this disposal, net of tax, is included in discontinued operations in 2008. In the third quarter of 2008, Kroll completed the sale of Kroll Crucible (“Crucible”), a division of its government services operation. The loss on this disposal, net of tax, is included in discontinued operations in 2008.  

Summarized Statements of Income data for discontinued operations is as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 (a) Includes goodwill impairment charges of $315 million and $504 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

 (b) Includes gain on sale of Kroll and the gain on the sale of KLS in 2010 and a loss on the sale of Kroll Government Services in 2009.  

 (c) The income tax credit related to the disposal of discontinued operations for 2010 primarily represents the recognition of tax benefits related to the sale of Kroll, partly offset by a tax provision of $36 million related to the sale of KGS.  

Other Corporate Items  

Interest  

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $20 million in 2010 compared with $17 million in 2009. The increase is primarily due to higher non-U.S. interest rate yields in 2010 compared to 2009. Interest expense was $233 million in 2010 compared with $241 million in 2009. The decrease in interest expense is primarily due to the maturity of $550 million of senior notes in the third quarter of 2010.  

Interest income earned on corporate funds amounted to $17 million in 2009, compared with $47 million in 2008. The decrease in interest income is due to lower average interest rates in 2009 compared with the prior year. Interest expense of $241 million in 2009 increased $21 million from the prior year. This increase is primarily due to the pre-funding in the first quarter of the $400 million of senior notes that matured in June 2009, the higher interest rate on the new bonds compared with those that matured, as well as higher interest expense associated with acquisition related liabilities. The Company used the proceeds of the newly issued senior notes to fund the maturity of $400 million of senior notes in June 2009.  

37  

Table of Contents 

Investment Income (Loss)  

In 2010, investment income was $43 million compared with a loss of $2 million in 2009. The increase reflects the impact of mark-to-market gains in 2010 on Risk Capital Holdings’ private equity investments compared to losses in 2009, and gains realized from the sale of equity securities in 2010.  

In 2009, investment losses were $2 million compared with a $12 million loss in the prior year. The decrease reflects lower mark-to-market declines on Risk Capital Holdings’ private equity investments recorded in 2009 compared with 2008, and gains realized from the sale of equity securities in 2009.  

Income Taxes  

The Company’s consolidated effective tax rate in 2010 was 26.5%. The tax rate reflects foreign operations taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate.  

The Company’s consolidated effective tax rate in 2009 was 3.8%. The tax rate reflects reductions relating to a decrease in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits and foreign operations taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. The decrease in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulted from expiring statutes of limitations, audit settlements and changes in estimates.  

The Company’s consolidated effective tax rate in 2008 was 22.9%. The tax rate reflects foreign operations taxed at rates lower than the U.S. rate. It also reflects a federal benefit on deferred state taxes, largely offset by other deferred tax adjustments.  

The lower tax rate generally attributed to the Company’s foreign operations reflects income taxed at rates lower than the 35% U.S. federal tax rate, net of the U.S. tax impact of repatriation of foreign earnings. The reduced effective tax rate primarily reflects lower corporate tax rates that prevail outside of the U.S., enhanced by planning that further reduces the impact of taxes worldwide. Under current U.S. tax law, the Company anticipates its non-U.S. operations will continue to incur taxes at rates under 35%, although the percentage impact on the tax rate is expected to moderate as increases in U.S. pretax income change the geographic mix of income.  

Nevertheless, the effective tax rate is expected to remain significantly variable for the foreseeable future. The rate is sensitive to the geographic mix and repatriation of the Company’s earnings, which may have a favorable or unfavorable impact on the rate. This also could result in foreign tax credit carryforwards arising in future periods for which a valuation allowance may be required. Losses in certain jurisdictions cannot be offset by earnings from other operations, and may require valuation allowances affecting the rate, depending on estimates of the realizability of associated deferred tax assets. The tax rate is also sensitive to changes in unrecognized tax benefits, including the impact of settled tax audits and expired statutes of limitation.  

The realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which the tax benefits are deductible or creditable. The Company and Marsh have been profitable globally. However, tax liabilities are determined and assessed on a legal entity and jurisdictional basis. Certain taxing jurisdictions allow or require combined or consolidated tax filings. In the United States, certain groups within the Company, which file on a combined basis, and certain entities within Marsh’s operations, which file on a separate entity basis, incurred losses for the last two years as well as the current year. The Company assessed the realizability of its domestic deferred tax assets, particularly state deferred tax assets of Marsh relating to jurisdictions in which it files separate tax returns, state deferred tax assets of all of the Company domestic operations related to jurisdictions in which the Company files a unitary or combined state tax return, and foreign tax credit carryforwards in the Company’s consolidated U.S. federal tax return. When making its assessment about the realization of its domestic deferred tax assets at December 31, 2010, the Company considered all available evidence, placing particular weight on evidence that could be objectively verified. The evidence considered included (i) the nature, frequency, and severity of current and cumulative financial reporting losses, (ii) actions completed that are designed to reduce capacity and adjust to lower demand in the current economic environment, (iii) profit trends evidenced by recent improvements in the Company’s and Marsh’s operating performance, (iv) the nonrecurring nature of some of the items  

38  

Table of Contents 

 that contributed to the losses, (v) the carryforward periods for the net operating losses (“NOLs”) and foreign tax credit carryforwards, (vi) the sources and timing of future taxable income, giving weight to sources according to the extent to which they can be objectively verified, and (vii) tax planning strategies that would be implemented, if necessary, to accelerate utilization of NOLs. Based on its assessment, the Company concluded that it is more likely than not that a substantial portion of these deferred tax assets are realizable and a valuation allowance was recorded to reduce the domestic tax assets to the amount that the Company believes is more likely than not to be realized. In the event sufficient taxable income is not generated in future periods, additional valuation allowances of up to approximately $250 million could be required relating to these domestic deferred tax assets. The realization of the remaining U.S. federal deferred tax assets is not as sensitive to U.S. profits because it is supported by anticipated repatriation of future earnings from the Company’s profitable global operations. In addition, when making its assessment about the realization of its domestic deferred tax assets at December 31, 2010, the Company continued to assess the realizability of deferred tax assets of certain other entities with a history of recent losses, including other U.S. entities that file separate state tax returns and foreign subsidiaries, and recorded valuation allowances as appropriate.  

Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as the recent proposal by President Obama’s Administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on the effective tax rate.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

The Company’s liquidity needs are primarily for operating expenses, servicing debt, funding pension obligations, paying dividends on outstanding stock, funding acquisitions and capital expenditures. As a holding company, the Company’s primary source for meeting these requirements is cash flows from operating subsidiaries. Other sources of liquidity include borrowing facilities discussed below in financing cash flows.  

Cash on our consolidated balance sheet includes funds available for general corporate purposes. Funds held on behalf of clients in a fiduciary capacity are segregated and shown separately in the consolidated balance sheet as an offset to fiduciary liabilities. Fiduciary funds cannot be used for general corporate purposes, and should not be considered as a source of liquidity for the Company.  

Operating Cash Flows  

The Company generated $722 million of cash from operations in 2010 compared with $640 million in 2009. These amounts reflect the net income reported by the Company during those periods, excluding gains or losses from investments and the disposition of businesses, adjusted for non-cash charges and changes in working capital which relate, primarily, to the timing of payments for accrued liabilities or receipts of assets. Cash generated from the disposition of businesses is included in investing cash flows. In December 2009, the Company paid $435 million into settlement funds related to the securities and ERISA class action lawsuits described above. Through December 31, 2009, the Company had collected $163 million of the total $230 million recovery from its insurers and the remaining $67 million was collected in January 2010.  

On June 11, 2010, the Company resolved the litigation brought by the Alaska Retirement Management Board (“ARMB”) on behalf of two Alaska benefit plans against Mercer, relating to work in the period 1992 to 2004. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, Mercer paid $500 million, of which $100 million was covered by insurance. The Company recorded a tax benefit of $277 million related to the disposition of Kroll and a $160 million tax benefit related to the cost of the Alaska Settlement. Approximately $50 million of the tax benefits related to the Kroll disposition were realized during 2010 and approximately $230 million is expected to be realized in the first half of 2011.  

Pension Related Items  

During the third quarter of 2010, the Company contributed $200 million to its U.S. Retirement Plan. The Company realized a tax benefit on this contribution of approximately $70 million in 2010. During 2010,  

39  

Table of Contents 

 the Company contributed $221 million to its U.S. pension plans (including the $200 million discussed above) and approximately $237 million to non-U.S. pension plans, compared with $22 million for U.S. plans and $400 million for non-U.S. plans in 2009.  

The Company’s expected funding for its U.S. non-qualified and non-U.S. pension plans in 2011 is approximately $20 million and $300 million, respectively. The Company’s policy for funding its tax-qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth in U.S. and applicable foreign laws. There currently is no ERISA funding requirement for the U.S. qualified plan for 2010 or 2011. Funding requirements for non-U.S. plans vary by country. Contribution rates are determined by the local actuaries based on local funding practices and statutory requirements, which may differ from measurements under U.S. GAAP. Funding amounts may be influenced by future asset performance, the level of discount rates and other variables impacting the assets and/or liabilities of the plan. In addition, amounts funded in the future, to the extent not due under regulatory requirements, may be affected by alternative uses of the Company’s cash flows, including dividends, investments and share repurchases.  

During 2010, the Company’s defined benefit pension plan assets experienced investment gains of 14.4% in the U.S. and 13.5% in the U.K., our largest plan.  

Pension liabilities are impacted by, among other things, the discount rate set as of year-end. In addition, the year-over-year change in the funded status of the plans is impacted by the variance between actual and assumed results, particularly with regard to return on assets and changes in the discount rate, as well as the amount of Company contributions, if any. Unrecognized actuarial losses at December 31, 2010 were approximately $1.3 billion for the U.S. plans and $2.3 billion for the non-U.S. plans. Over the past several years, the amount of actuarial losses has been significantly impacted, both positively and negatively, by actual asset performance and changes in discount rates. In 2008, severe downturns in the global equity markets resulted in market declines of 18% in the U.S. and 14% in the U.K. (our largest plan). This was partly offset by asset returns which exceeded the assumed rates of return in 2009 and 2010 in both the U.S. and the U.K. In addition, the discount rate used to measure plan liabilities declined in the U.S. in each of the last three years. A decline in the discount rate increases the measured plan liability, resulting in actuarial losses. In the U.K., asset losses in 2008 were partly offset by an increase in the discount rate. However, the discount rate in the U.K. declined in each of the last two years.  

Overall, the Company’s pension expense is expected to increase in 2011 by approximately $60 million before the partly-offsetting impacts on bonuses and other incentive compensation and possible movements in foreign exchange rates.  

The Company’s accounting policies for its defined benefit pension plans, including the selection of and sensitivity to assumptions, are discussed below under Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies. For additional information regarding the Company’s retirement plans, see Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Financing Cash Flows  

Net cash used for financing activities was $1.1 billion in 2010 compared with $464 million of net cash used for financing activities in 2009. The Company reduced outstanding debt by approximately $550 million, $10 million and $260 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Debt  

During 2010, the Company’s 5.15% ten-year fixed rate $550 million senior notes matured. The Company used a portion of the cash received from the Kroll disposition to fund the maturity of those notes.  

During 2009, the Company’s 7.125% ten-year $400 million bond matured. The Company used cash on hand as well as the proceeds from the issuance of 9.25% ten-year $400 million senior notes in the first quarter to manage liquidity, including the funding of the maturing notes.  

40  

Table of Contents 

During 2008, the Company’s 3.625% five-year fixed rate $250 million senior notes matured. The Company used cash on hand to manage liquidity, including the repayment of these notes.  

In the first quarter of 2009, Marsh acquired the remaining minority interest of a previously majority owned entity for total purchase consideration of $47 million reflecting cash paid of $24 million and future consideration of $23 million, of which $15 million was paid in the first quarter of 2010.  

On October 23, 2009, the Company and certain of its foreign subsidiaries entered into a new $1.0 billion multi-currency three-year unsecured revolving credit facility, which replaced the $1.2 billion facility that was previously in place. The interest rate on this facility varies based upon the Company’s credit ratings and the Company’s credit default swap levels, subject to floors and caps. The facility requires the Company to maintain certain coverage and leverage ratios which are tested quarterly. There were no borrowings outstanding under this facility at December 31, 2010.  

The Company’s senior debt is currently rated Baa2 by Moody’s and BBB- by Standard & Poor’s. The Company’s short-term debt is currently rated P-2 by Moody’s and A-3 by Standard & Poor’s. The Company carries a stable outlook from Moody’s and a negative outlook from Standard & Poor’s.  

The Company also maintains other credit facilities, guarantees and letters of credit with various banks, primarily related to operations located outside the United States, aggregating $272 million at December 31, 2010 and $250 million at December 31, 2009. There were no outstanding borrowings under these facilities at December 31, 2010.  

Share Repurchases  

On September 15, 2010, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a $500 million share repurchase program. During the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company repurchased 3.4 million of its common stock for total consideration of $85.5 million. The repurchase authorization does not have a time limit.  

Dividends  

The Company paid total dividends of $452 million in 2010 ($0.81 per share), $431 million in 2009 ($0.80 per share) and $412 million ($0.80 per share) in 2008.  

Investing Cash Flows  

Net cash provided by investing activities amounted to $535 million in 2010. This compares with $236 million of net cash used for investing activities in 2009. The Company made eight acquisitions in 2010. Cash used for these acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was $427 million compared with $67 million used for acquisitions in 2009. In addition, the Company issued approximately 7.6 million shares of common stock with an acquisition date value of $183 million, and recorded a liability of $81 million for estimated contingent purchase consideration related to the acquisitions completed in 2010. In 2010, the Company also paid $60 million of deferred purchase consideration, $3 million for other intangible assets and $2 million of contingent purchase consideration related to acquisitions made in prior years. Remaining deferred cash payments of $189 million for acquisitions completed in 2010 and in prior years are recorded in accounts payable and accrued liabilities or other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2010. The Company paid contingent consideration of $6 million in 2009.  

Cash provided by the sale of securities was $32 million and $42 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

The Company received $1.13 billion from its disposition of Kroll, which closed on August 3, 2010 and $110 million from the disposition of KLS which closed in the second quarter of 2010. In 2009, the Company received $70 million related to the disposition of KGS.  

The Company’s additions to fixed assets and capitalized software, which amounted to $271 million in 2010 and $305 million in 2009, primarily relate to computer equipment purchases, the refurbishing and modernizing of office facilities and software development costs. These amounts include additions related to Kroll, which is included in discontinued operations, of $13 million and $44 million for 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

41  

Table of Contents 

The Company has committed to potential future investments of approximately $81 million in connection with its investments in Trident II and other funds managed by Stone Point Capital, LLC. The majority of the Company’s investment commitments for funds managed by Stone Point Capital, LLC are related to Trident II, the investment period for which is now closed for new investments. No significant future capital calls related to Trident II are expected.  

Commitments and Obligations  

The following identifies the Company’s future contractual obligations by the types identified in the table below as of December 31, 2010:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The above does not include unrecognized tax benefits of $199 million as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities, other than approximately $30 million that may become payable during 2010. The above does not include the indemnified liabilities discussed in Note 16 as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of these liabilities. The above does not include pension liabilities of $935 million because the timing and amount of ultimate payment of such liability is dependent upon future events, including, but not limited to, future returns on plan assets, and changes in the discount rate used to measure the liabilities. The amounts of estimated future benefits payments to be made from plan assets are disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company expects to contribute approximately $20 million and $300 million in 2011 to its U.S. non-qualified and non-U.S. pension plans, respectively.  

Market Risk and Credit Risk  

Certain of the Company’s revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets.  

Interest Rate Risk and Credit Risk  

The Company has historically managed its net exposure to interest rate changes by utilizing a mixture of variable and fixed rate borrowings to finance the Company’s asset base. During 2007, virtually all of the Company’s variable rate borrowings were repaid. In January 2011, the Company entered into two 3.5 year interest rate swaps to hedge changes in the fair value of the first $250 million of its 5.375% senior notes due in 2014. Under the terms of the swap, the counterparties will pay the Company a fixed rate of 5.375% and the Company will pay interest at a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a fixed spread of 3.726%. The swaps are designated as fair value hedging instruments and are deemed to be perfectly effective in accordance with applicable accounting guidance.  

Interest income generated from the Company’s cash investments as well as invested fiduciary funds will vary with the general level of interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates.  

The Company had the following investments subject to variable interest rates:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

42  

Table of Contents 

These investments and debt instruments are discussed more fully in Note1 to the consolidated financial statements appearing in Item 8 of this report.  

Based on the above balances, if short-term interest rates increased or decreased by 10%, or 13 basis points, over the course of the year, annual interest income, including interest earned on fiduciary funds, would increase or decrease by approximately $5 million.  

In addition to interest rate risk, our cash investments and fiduciary fund investments are subject to potential loss of value due to counterparty credit risk. To minimize this risk, the Company and its subsidiaries invest pursuant to a Board-approved investment policy. The policy mandates the preservation of principal and liquidity and requires broad diversification with counterparty limits assigned based primarily on credit rating and type of investment. The Company carefully monitors its cash and fiduciary fund investments and will further restrict the portfolio as appropriate to market conditions. The majority of cash and fiduciary funds are invested in short-term bank deposits and liquid money market funds.  

Foreign Currency Risk  

The translated values of revenue and expense from the Company’s international operations are subject to fluctuations due to changes in currency exchange rates. The non-U.S. based revenue that is exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations is approximately 56% of total revenue. Note 17 details revenue by geographic area. We periodically use forward contracts and options to limit foreign currency exchange rate exposure on net income and cash flows for specific, clearly defined transactions arising in the ordinary course of business. Although the Company has significant revenue generated in foreign locations which is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, in most cases both the foreign currency revenue and expenses are in the functional currency of the foreign location. As such, the U.S. dollar translation of both the revenues and expenses, as well as the potentially offsetting movements of various currencies against the U.S. dollar, generally tends to mitigate the impact on net operating income of foreign currency risk. The Company estimates that a 10% movement of major foreign currencies (Euro, Sterling, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar) in the same direction against the U.S. dollar that held constant over the course of the year would increase or decrease full year net operating income by approximately $50 million.  

Equity Price Risk  

The Company holds investments in public and private companies, as well as in certain private equity funds managed by Stone Point Capital. Publicly traded investments of $23 million are classified as available for sale. Non-publicly traded investments of $39 million are accounted for using the cost method and $168 million are accounted for using the equity method. The investments that are classified as available for sale or that are not publicly traded are subject to risk of changes in market value, which if determined to be other than temporary, could result in realized impairment losses. The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of such investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements.  

Other  

A number of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings are pending. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.  

Management’s Discussion of Critical Accounting Policies  

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management considers the policies discussed below to be critical to understanding the Company’s financial statements because their application places the most significant demands on management’s judgment, and requires management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results may differ from those estimates.  

43  

Table of Contents 

Legal and Other Loss Contingencies  

The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims, lawsuits and proceedings including claims for errors and omissions. GAAP requires that liabilities for contingencies be recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred before the balance sheet date and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Significant management judgment is required to apply this guidance. The Company analyzes its litigation exposure based on available information, including consultation with internal and external counsel handling the defense of these matters, to assess its potential liability.  

In addition, to the extent that insurance coverage is available, significant management judgment is required to determine the amount of recoveries that are probable of collection under the Company’s various insurance programs.  

Retirement Benefits  

The Company maintains qualified and non-qualified defined benefit pension and defined contribution plans for its eligible U.S. employees and a variety of defined benefit and defined contribution plans for its eligible non-U.S. employees. The Company’s policy for funding its tax qualified defined benefit retirement plans is to contribute amounts at least sufficient to meet the funding requirements set forth in U.S. and applicable foreign laws.  

The Company recognizes the funded status of its overfunded defined benefit pension and retiree medical plans as a net benefit plan asset and its unfunded and underfunded plans as a net benefit plan liability. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic costs are recorded as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), net of tax, in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.  

The determination of net periodic pension cost is based on a number of actuarial assumptions, including an expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and assumed rate of salary increase. Significant assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic pension costs and pension liabilities are disclosed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company believes the assumptions for each plan are reasonable and appropriate and will continue to evaluate actuarial assumptions at least annually and adjust them as appropriate. Based on its current assumptions, the Company expects pension expense in 2011 to increase approximately $60 million compared with 2010 before partly-offsetting impacts of bonuses and other incentive compensation and possible movements in foreign exchange rates.  

Future pension expense or credits will depend on plan provisions, future investment performance, future assumptions and various other factors related to the populations participating in the pension plans. Holding all other assumptions constant, a half-percentage point change in the rate of return on plan assets and discount rate assumptions would affect net periodic pension cost for the U.S. and U.K. plans, which together comprise approximately 87% of total pension plan liabilities, as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

Changing the discount rate and leaving the other assumptions constant may not be representative of the impact on expense, because the long-term rates of inflation and salary increases are often correlated with the discount rate.  

The Company contributes to certain health care and life insurance benefits provided to its retired employees. The cost of these postretirement benefits for employees in the U.S. is accrued during the period up to the date employees are eligible to retire, but is funded by the Company as incurred. The key assumptions and sensitivity to changes in the assumed health care cost trend rate are discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.  

44  

Table of Contents 

Income Taxes  

The Company tax rate reflects its income, statutory tax rates and tax planning in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Significant judgment is required in determining the annual tax rate and in evaluating uncertain tax positions. The Company reports a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. The evaluation of a tax position is a two-step process. The first step involves recognition. We determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon tax examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation, based on only the technical merits of the position. The technical merits of a tax position derive from both statutory and judicial authority (legislation and statutes, legislative intent, regulations, rulings, and case law) and their applicability to the facts and circumstances of the tax position. If a tax position does not meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, the benefit of that position is not recognized in the financial statements. The second step is measurement. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate resolution with a taxing authority.  

Uncertain tax positions are evaluated based upon the facts and circumstances that exist at each reporting period and involve significant management judgment. Subsequent changes in judgment based upon new information may lead to changes in recognition, derecognition, and measurement. Adjustments may result, for example, upon resolution of an issue with the taxing authorities, or expiration of a statute of limitations barring an assessment for an issue.  

Tax law requires items be included in the Company’s tax returns at different times than the items are reflected in the financial statements. As a result, the annual tax expense reflected in the consolidated statements of income is different than that reported in the tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the returns, and some differences are temporary and reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. Temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent tax expense recognized in the financial statements for which payment has been deferred, or expense for which a deduction has been taken already in the tax return but the expense has not yet been recognized in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in tax returns in future years for which a benefit has already been recorded in the financial statements. In assessing the need for and amount of a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, the Company considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjusts the valuation allowance accordingly. The Company evaluates all significant available positive and negative evidence, including the existence of losses in recent years and its forecast of future taxable income by jurisdiction, in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. The Company also considers tax-planning strategies that would result in realization of deferred tax assets, and the presence of taxable income in prior carryback years if carryback is permitted under the appropriate tax law. The underlying assumptions the Company uses in forecasting future taxable income require significant judgment and take into account the Company’s recent performance. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which temporary differences or carryforwards are deductible or creditable. Valuation allowances are established for deferred tax assets when it is estimated that it is more likely than not future taxable income will be insufficient to fully use a deduction or credit in that jurisdiction.  

Fair Value Determinations  

Investment Valuation—The Company holds investments in both public and private companies, as well as certain private equity funds. The majority of the public investments are accounted for as available for sale securities. Certain investments, primarily investments in private equity funds, are accounted for using the equity method. Although not directly recorded in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, the Company defined benefit pension plans hold investments of approximately $10 billion. The fair value of these investments determines, in part, the over-or under-funded status of those plans,  

45  

Table of Contents 

 which is included in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets. The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of its investments to determine if any valuation adjustments are appropriate under the applicable accounting pronouncements. The Company bases its review on the facts and circumstances as they relate to each investment. Fair value of investments in private equity funds is determined by the funds’ investment managers. Factors considered in determining the fair value of private equity investments include: implied valuation of recently completed financing rounds that included sophisticated outside investors; performance multiples of comparable public companies; restrictions on the sale or disposal of the investments; trading characteristics of the securities; and the relative size of the holdings in comparison to other private investors and the public market float. In those instances where quoted market prices are not available, particularly for equity holdings in private companies, or formal restrictions limit the sale of securities, significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate value of the Company’s investments. The Company reviews with the fund manager the appropriateness of valuation results for significant private equity investments.  

Goodwill Impairment Testing—The Company is required to assess goodwill and any indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The Company performs the annual impairment test for each of its reporting units during the third quarter of each year. Fair values of the reporting units are estimated using a market approach or a discounted cash flow model. Carrying values for the reporting units are based on balances at the prior quarter end and include directly identified assets and liabilities, as well as an allocation of those assets and liabilities not recorded at the reporting unit level. The Company performed interim goodwill impairment assessments in its Risk Consulting & Technology segment which resulted in an impairment charge of $315 million recorded in the first quarter of 2009 and impairment charges totaling $540 million recorded in the first and second quarters of 2008. Impairment charges included in discontinued operations were $315 million and $504 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The Risk Consulting & Technology segment was effectively disposed of with the sale of Kroll in August of 2010. The Company completed its 2010 annual review in the third quarter of 2010 and concluded that goodwill was not impaired. The fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by a substantial margin. The fair value estimates used in this assessment are dependent upon assumptions and estimates about the future profitability and other financial ratios of our reporting units, as well as relevant financial data, recent transactions and market valuations of comparable public companies.  

Share-based Payment  

The guidance for accounting for share-based payments requires, among other things, that the estimated fair value of stock options be charged to earnings. Significant management judgment is required to determine the appropriate assumptions for inputs such as volatility and expected term necessary to estimate option values. In addition, management judgment is required to analyze the terms of the plans and awards granted thereunder to determine if awards will be treated as equity awards or liability awards, as defined by the accounting guidance.  

As of December 31, 2010, there was $23.4 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option awards. The weighted-average periods over which the costs are expected to be recognized is 1.7 years. Also as of December 31, 2010, there was $206 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the Company’s restricted stock, restricted stock unit and deferred stock unit awards.  

See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding guidance for accounting for share-based payments.  

New Accounting Pronouncements  

Note 1 contains a summary of the Company’s significant accounting policies, including a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements and their impact or potential future impact on the Company’s financial results, if determinable.  

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.