ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS    

 Forward-Looking Information  

 The discussions under Business, Risk Factors, Properties and Legal Proceedings, and the following discussions under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” contain various forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which represent the Company’s expectations or beliefs concerning future events. When used in this document and in documents incorporated herein by reference, the words “expects,” “estimates,” “plans,” “anticipates,” “indicates,” “believes,” “forecast,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “seeks,” “targets” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Similarly, statements that describe the Company’s objectives, plans or goals, or actions the Company may take in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, the Company’s expectations concerning operations and financial conditions, including changes in capacity, revenues, and costs; future financing plans and needs; the amounts of its unencumbered assets and other sources of liquidity; fleet plans; overall economic and industry conditions; plans and objectives for future operations; regulatory approvals and actions; and the impact on the Company of its results of operations in recent years and the sufficiency of its financial resources to absorb that impact. Other forward-looking statements include statements which do not relate solely to historical facts, such as, without limitation, statements which discuss the possible future effects of current known trends or uncertainties, or which indicate that the future effects of known trends or uncertainties cannot be predicted, guaranteed or assured. All forward-looking statements in this report are based upon information available to the Company on the date of this report. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Guidance given in this report regarding capacity, fuel consumption, fuel prices, fuel hedging and unit costs are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from the Company’s expectations. The Risk Factors listed in Item 1A could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from historical results and from those expressed in forward-looking statements.  

 Recent Events   

 In late 2009, the Company unveiled a new business plan — FlightPlan 2020, which is an evolution of the Turnaround Plan that guided the Company through the last decade. FlightPlan 2020 is a strategic framework developed to secure the Company’s future by focusing on what will be required to succeed in the airline business over the next decade. It establishes the Company’s priorities and a clear plan to better position the Company to meet the challenges of the coming years. This plan for achieving sustained profitability has five tenets: (i) Invest Wisely, (ii) Earn Customer Loyalty, (iii) Strengthen and Defend our Global Network, (iv) Be a Good Place for Good People and (v) Fly Profitably. All strategic actions by the Company going forward are expected to be designed to realize the goals of FlightPlan 2020.  

 Under FlightPlan 2020, the Company has launched its network strategy that focuses resources in its cornerstone markets of Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Chicago O’Hare, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles, and has continued to execute its fleet renewal and replacement plan. Further, the Company continues to pursue its strategy to form cooperative agreements with oneworld members and other airlines.  

 In 2008, American entered into a joint business agreement (JBA) and related marketing arrangements with British Airways and Iberia. These agreements provide for commercial cooperation on flights between North America and most countries in Europe, pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas.  

 In July 2010, American obtained clearance from the European Commission (EC) and approval by the Department of Transportation (DOT) for antitrust immunity (ATI) for its planned cooperation with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair and Royal Jordanian. Regulatory conditions for ATI approval for the British Airways, Iberia, Finnair and Royal Jordanian cooperative agreement include a collective obligation of the Company, British Airways, and    

 27   

 Iberia to lease to other carriers up to seven takeoff and landing slot pairs at London Heathrow airport and up to three John F. Kennedy airport operational authorities, depending on market conditions. American began implementation of the JBA with British Airways and Iberia and expanded cooperation with Finnair and Royal Jordanian in October 2010. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that we may derive from such arrangements.  

 In February 2010, American and JAL announced the decision to strengthen their relationship. The carriers, entered into a JBA which will enhance their scope of cooperation on routes between North America and Asia through adjustments to their respective networks, flight schedules, and other business activities. This, in turn, will allow both carriers to better complement each other’s operations and to develop and offer competitive products and quality service to their customers.  

 As a part of these commercial benefits, American determined that with ATI and by participating in a joint business agreement with American, JAL could realize approximately $100 million in annual incremental revenue. American has given JAL a guarantee to that effect covering the first three years following implementation of the joint business agreement, subject to certain terms and conditions. At this time, the amount (if any) that AMR may ultimately owe under the agreement is unclear. The Company and other oneworld members have also discussed various possible financing arrangements with JAL. The Company has agreed to negotiate in good faith towards a capital investment in JAL by American, oneworld and a private investment firm in the future if invited by JAL and the Government of Japan. To date, the Government of Japan has declined any such investment, and the Company does not expect that any such investment will be made in the near term. Any such investment would be on and subject to terms and conditions customary to such an arrangement. The Company also expects that the amount of such a capital investment, if any, by American and other oneworld carriers, would not exceed $300 million, with additional investment from private partners.  

 In the fourth quarter of 2010, American and JAL received approval for ATI on certain routes between North America and Asia from the DOT and MLIT. Implementation of the JBA is subject to successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements and other approvals. American expects to begin implementing the JBA with JAL in 2011. No assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that the Company may derive from such arrangements.  

 In 2010, American also commenced commercial collaboration in New York and Boston with JetBlue. American’s agreement with JetBlue provides customers with interline service in non-overlapping markets, letting customers connect between 15 of American’s international destinations from New York and Boston and 26 domestic cities flown by JetBlue. Further, American expanded its relationship with JetBlue so that AAdvantage members and members of JetBlue’s customer loyalty program will be able to earn AAdvantage miles or JetBlue points, respectively, when they fly on American and JetBlue cooperative interline routes. Under the terms of the agreements for commercial collaboration, American transferred eight slot pairs at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington, D.C. (which were owned by American) and one slot pair at White Plains, New York (which were owned by AMR Eagle) to JetBlue, and JetBlue transferred twelve slot pairs at JFK to American. The reciprocal frequent flyer earning benefits and slot transfers became effective in the fourth quarter of 2010.  

 Further in 2010, the Company announced that it plans to extend its network through new commercial collaboration agreements with several airlines, including Air Berlin, Europe’s fifth largest airline, GOL Airlines of Brazil, Jetstar Airways, which is an affiliate airline of Qantas Airways (a oneworld alliance member), and Canada’s WestJet. These agreements include both interline and codeshare arrangements that allow customers of the Company and the respective airline to book and travel on the other’s network. Selected agreements are subject to regulatory approval and no assurances can be given as to any arrangements that may ultimately be implemented or any benefits that the Company may derive from such arrangements.  

 The Company currently estimates that the implementation of its cornerstone strategy, the implementation of the Company’s JBA with British Airways/Iberia and proposed cooperation with JAL, and various other alliance and network activities will result in incremental revenues and cost savings of over $500 million per year. The Company expects that it will realize the majority of these incremental revenues and cost savings in 2011, and the remainder by year end 2012. This estimate is based on a number of assumptions that are inherently uncertain, and the Company’s ability to realize these benefits depends on various factors, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, such    

 28   

 as factors referred to above in “Forward-Looking Information.” No assurances can be given as to any benefits the Company may derive from such arrangements.  

 The Company is in active labor contract negotiations with each of its organized labor groups. The Company negotiated tentative agreements with several workgroups within the Transport Workers Union of American AFL-CIO (TWU) including the Maintenance Control Technician group, the Material Logistics Specialists group and the Mechanic and Related group. Agreements with the TWU groups are subject to ratification by the relevant membership of TWU, and while the Maintenance Control Technician group ratified their agreement, the Material Logistics Specialists group and the Mechanic and Related group tentative agreements were not ratified. Mediated negotiation continues under the auspices of the National Mediation Board with the TWU, the Allied Pilots Association (APA) and the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA).  

 Based on analysis of airline industry labor contracts, the Company currently estimates that American’s labor cost disadvantage (the amount by which its labor costs exceed what such costs would be if they were determined based on the average of other network carrier labor contracts) is approximately $600 million per year. The Company expects this gap to narrow as open industry labor contracts are settled. This expectation is based on a number of assumptions. The airline industry labor contract negotiation process is inherently uncertain and the results of labor contract negotiations are difficult to predict.  

 In June 2010, AMR reiterated its intent to evaluate the possible divestiture of AMR Eagle, its wholly-owned regional carrier. The AMR Eagle fleet is operated to feed passenger traffic to American pursuant to a capacity purchase agreement between American and AMR Eagle under which American receives all passenger revenue from AMR Eagle flights and pays AMR Eagle a fee for each flight. The capacity purchase agreement reflects what AMR believes are current market rates received by other regional carriers for similar flying. Amounts paid to AMR Eagle under the capacity purchase agreement are available to pay for various operating expenses of AMR Eagle, such as crew expenses, maintenance, aircraft ownership (including the debt service on the loans made to finance the AMR Eagle fleet of jet aircraft), and aircraft lease payments for the AMR Eagle fleet of turboprop aircraft. AMR continues to evaluate both the desirability and the form of such a divestiture, which may include a spin-off to AMR shareholders, a sale to a third party, or some other form of separation. Any divestiture of AMR Eagle could involve the restructuring of some or all of AMR Eagle’s assets and liabilities, and the assumption of certain of AMR Eagle’s liabilities by American. If AMR were to decide to pursue a divestiture of AMR Eagle, no prediction can be made as to whether any such divestiture would be completed, and the completion of any divestiture transaction and its timing would depend upon a number of factors, including general economic, industry and financial market conditions, as well as the ultimate form and structure of the divestiture. In addition, no prediction can be made as to the potential impacts on AMR or American of any divestiture of AMR Eagle due to, among others, uncertainties regarding the form and structure of any divestiture, the potential restructuring of assets and liabilities, and the nature and scope of any resulting amendments to the capacity purchase agreement between American and AMR Eagle.  

 During 2010, Congress passed and the President signed new healthcare legislation. While the new law did and will continue to impact certain of our active employee healthcare plans, according to recently released interim final regulations promulgated under the legislation, the Company’s retiree medical benefits will be exempt from many of the mandates of the legislation. Thus, we currently believe this impact will not be material. We will continue to review the impact of the new law as governmental agencies issue interpretations regarding its meaning and scope. Also in 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act which could impact the Company, but those effects cannot be predicted at this time as the related rules and regulations have not been finalized.  

 Contingencies  

 The Company has certain contingencies resulting from litigation and claims incident to the ordinary course of business. Management believes, after considering a number of factors, including (but not limited to) the information currently available, the views of legal counsel, the nature of contingencies to which the Company is subject and prior experience, that the ultimate disposition of the litigation (except as noted in “Legal Proceedings” in item 3) and claims will not materially affect the Company’s consolidated financial position or results of operations. When appropriate, the Company accrues for these contingencies based on its assessments of the likely outcomes of the    

 29   

 related matters. The amounts of these contingencies could increase or decrease in the near term, based on revisions to those assessments.  

 The Company files its tax returns as prescribed by the tax laws of the jurisdictions in which it operates. The Company’s 2004 through 2009 tax years are still subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service. Various state and foreign jurisdiction tax years remain open to examination, and the Company is under examination, in administrative appeals, or engaged in tax litigation in certain jurisdictions. See Income Taxes under “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Item 7.  

 On August 26, 2010, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) proposed a $24.2 million civil penalty against American, claiming that American failed to properly perform certain portions of an FAA Airworthiness Directive concerning certain wiring to the McDonnell Douglas MD-80 aircraft auxiliary hydraulic pump. American plans to challenge the proposed civil penalty. The Company has concluded that the amount of the penalty, if any, that may be paid is not estimable at December 31, 2010.  

 GDS Discussion  

 Over the past several years, American has been developing a direct connection technology, designed to distribute its fare content and bookings capability directly to travel agents in order to achieve greater efficiencies, cost savings, and technological advances in the distribution of our services. Historically, approximately 60% of American’s bookings are booked through travel agencies, which typically use one or more global distribution systems, or “GDSs”, to view fare content from American and other industry participants. American is currently in litigation with two of the GDSs, Sabre and Travelport, and is in business discussions with two large online travel agencies, Orbitz and Expedia, related to American’s efforts to implement its direct connection technology.  

 On November 5, 2010, Travelport, the GDS used by Orbitz, filed a lawsuit against American seeking a ruling that a notice of termination delivered by American to Orbitz breached American’s content distribution agreement with Travelport. Subsequently, on December 2, 2010, Travelport doubled the booking fees it charges American for some international point-of-sale bookings through Travelport, and made it more difficult for travel agents to find American’s fares on the Travelport system display. We believe these actions violate our agreement with Travelport. In response, American filed counterclaims against Travelport for breach of contract, and implemented a charge on bookings through Travelport in an effort to offset the booking fee increase. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in offsetting this expense completely, or that we will ultimately prevail in the lawsuit filed by Travelport or on our counterclaims. We are vigorously pursuing our counterclaims and rights in the litigation, as well as engaged in active negotiations with Travelport to resolve the lawsuit and our counterclaims.  

 On December 21, 2010, American terminated its agreement with Orbitz. Prior to termination of such agreement, approximately 3% of American’s passenger revenue, on an annualized basis, was generated from bookings made via Orbitz. We are engaged in active negotiations with Orbitz to enter into a new agreement.  

 On December 31, 2010, American’s agreement with Expedia expired, and Expedia discontinued selling American tickets on its website. Prior to expiration of that agreement, approximately 5.4% of American’s passenger revenue, on an annualized basis, was booked through Expedia. We are engaged in active negotiations with Expedia to enter into a new agreement.  

 On January 5, 2011, Sabre made it more difficult for travel agents to find American’s fares on the Sabre system display and doubled the fees it charges American for bookings through its GDS. Sabre also terminated portions of its GDS agreements with American, effective July 2011. This termination, if valid, would entitle Sabre to make it more difficult for travel agents to find American’s fares through its GDS and materially increase the fees it charges American for bookings through its GDS, as well as allowing Sabre to terminate its GDS agreements with American entirely in August 2011. Sabre alleges that our contract allowed it to take these actions in response to statements that American made in the press concerning our direct connection technology. Sabre is the largest non-direct source of American’s bookings. In 2010, over $7 billion of American’s passenger revenues were generated from bookings made through the Sabre GDS. In response to Sabre’s actions, on January 10, 2011, American filed a lawsuit against Sabre in Texas state court on several grounds. The court temporarily enjoined Sabre from “biasing” or making it more difficult to find American’s fares on the Sabre GDS, and set a preliminary injunction hearing for February 14,    

 30   

 2011. On January 23, 2011, American and Sabre entered into a Stand Down Agreement that suspended the litigation until June 1, 2011 and vacated the February 14 hearing date. During this period, Sabre agreed (1) not to take any actions to bias the display of American’s services; (2) to return to the pricing in effect on January 4, 2011; and (3) withdraw its notice of termination of certain parts of the agreement. We can give no assurances that we will resolve our disputes with Sabre or prevail in a temporary injunction hearing should such a hearing become necessary after the Stand Down Agreement with Sabre expires on June 1, 2011. The failure to resolve these issues or prevail in a subsequent hearing could have a material adverse impact on our level of bookings, business and results of operations.  

 While we believe that some of the bookings through Orbitz, Travelport, Expedia and Sabre have transitioned or will transition to other distribution channels, such as other travel agencies, metasearch sites and American’s AA.com web site, it is not possible at this time to estimate what the ultimate impact would be to our business if we are unsuccessful in resolving one or more of these matters. If as a result of these matters it becomes more difficult for our customers to find and book flights on American, we could be put at a competitive disadvantage against our competitors and this may result in lower bookings. If we are unable to sell American inventory through any or all of these channels, our level of bookings, business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We also believe the actions taken by Travelport and Sabre described above are not permitted by the applicable contracts. We intend to vigorously pursue our claims and defenses in the lawsuits described above, but there can be no assurance of the outcome of any such lawsuit.  

 Financial Highlights   

 The Company recorded a net loss of $471 million in 2010 compared to a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009. The Company’s smaller net loss in 2010 reflects an improvement in a weak global economy; which led to higher passenger revenues, partially offset by higher fuel prices. Mainline passenger revenue increased by $1.7 billion to $16.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. Mainline passenger unit revenues increased 10.4 percent in 2010 due to an 8.7 percent increase in passenger yield compared to 2009 and a load factor increase of approximately 1.2 points. Passenger yield remains below the Company’s peak yield set in the year 2000, despite cumulative inflation of approximately 27 percent over the same time frame. The Company believes this is the result of a fragmented industry with numerous competitors and excess capacity, increased low cost carrier competition, increased price competition due to the internet, and other factors. Since deregulation in 1978, the Company’s passenger yield has increased 78 percent, while the Consumer Price Index (CPI), as measured by the U.S. Department of Labor Bureau of Labor Statistics, has grown by over 225 percent. The Company believes increases in passenger yield will continue to significantly lag CPI indefinitely.  

 The increase in total passenger revenue was partially offset by significantly higher year-over-year fuel prices. Fuel expense, taking into account the impact of fuel hedging, increased by $847 million to $6.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to 2009. Hedging losses accounted for approximately $142 million of the overall increase in fuel expense. The Company paid an average of $2.32 per gallon in 2010 compared to an average of $2.01 per gallon in 2009, including effects of hedging. Although fuel prices have abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in July 2008, they have increased since the first quarter of 2009, particularly recently, and remain high and extremely volatile by historical standards. In addition, the Company’s unit costs, excluding fuel and special charges, were greater for the year ended December 31, 2010 than for the same period in 2009. Factors driving the increase include revenue related costs, such as credit card fees and booking fees and commissions, and higher aircraft rent related to the Company’s fleet renewal plan. The Company remains focused on cost reductions, but expects such factors to result in continuing cost pressures in 2011.  

 In addition, the Company’s 2010 results were negatively impacted by a net amount of $81 million in special items related to the Venezuelan currency remeasurement in January 2010 and a non-cash impairment charge to write down certain routes and slot authorities in Latin America as a result of open skies agreements. Comparatively, the Company’s 2009 operating results were negatively impacted by a net amount of $107 million in special items, restructuring charges and a non-cash tax item, including $184 million from the impairment of certain route and slot authorities, primarily in Latin America, and losses on certain sale leaseback transactions. Restructuring charges for 2009 were $171 million and related to announced capacity reductions, including the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the impairment of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft. Also included in 2009 results is a $248 million non-    

 31   

 cash tax benefit resulting from the allocation of the tax expense to other comprehensive income items recognized during 2009. The 2009 restructuring charges, the 2009 non-cash tax item and the 2010 and 2009 route impairments are described in Notes 2, 8 and 11, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements.  

 The Company’s ability to become profitable and its ability to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis will depend on a number of factors, many of which are largely beyond the Company’s control. Certain risk factors that affect the Company’s business and financial results are discussed in the Risk Factors listed in Item 1A.  

 In order to remain competitive and to improve its financial condition, the Company must continue to take steps to generate additional revenues and to reduce its costs. Although the Company has a number of initiatives underway to address its cost and revenue challenges, some of these initiatives involve changes to the Company’s business which it may be unable to implement. It has become increasingly difficult to identify and implement significant revenue enhancement and cost savings initiatives. The adequacy and ultimate success of the Company’s initiatives to generate additional revenues and reduce costs cannot be assured. Moreover, whether the Company’s initiatives will be adequate or successful depends in large measure on factors beyond its control, notably the overall industry environment, including passenger demand, yield and industry capacity growth, and fuel prices. It will be very difficult for the Company to continue to fund its obligations on an ongoing basis, and to return to profitability, if the overall industry revenue environment does not continue to improve or if fuel prices were to increase and persist for an extended period at high levels.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

 Cash, Short-Term Investments and Restricted Assets At December 31, 2010, the Company had $4.5 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $450 million in Restricted cash and short-term investments, both at fair value, versus $4.4 billion in unrestricted cash and short-term investments and $460 million in Restricted cash and short-term investments in 2009.  

 The Company’s unrestricted short-term investment portfolio consist of a variety of what the Company believes are highly liquid, low risk instruments including money market funds, government agency investments, repurchase investments, short-term obligations, corporate obligations, bank notes, certificates of deposit and time deposits. AMR’s objectives for its investment portfolio are (1) the safety of principal, (2) liquidity maintenance, (3) yield maximization, and (4) the full investment of all available funds. The Company’s risk management policy further emphasizes superior credit quality (primarily based on short-term ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations) in selecting and maintaining investments in its portfolio and enforces limits on the proportion of funds invested with one issuer, one industry, or one type of instrument. The Company regularly assesses the market risks of its portfolio, and believes that its established policies and business practices adequately limit those risks. As a result, the Company does not anticipate any material adverse impact from these risks.  

 Significant Indebtedness and Future Financing Indebtedness is a significant risk to the Company as discussed in the Risk Factors listed in Item 1A. During the last five years, the Company raised an aggregate of approximately $8.8 billion in financing to fund operating losses, capital commitments (mainly for aircraft and ground properties), debt maturities, employee pension obligations and to bolster its liquidity. As of the date of this Form 10-K, the Company believes that it should have sufficient liquidity to fund its operations, including repayment of debt and capital leases, capital expenditures and other contractual obligations; however, there can be no assurances to that effect.  

 In addition, the Company has financing commitments covering all aircraft scheduled to be delivered to the Company in 2011 and 2012, except for the two Boeing 777-300ER aircraft recently ordered. Such financing commitments are subject to certain terms and conditions, including in some instances a condition that the Company have at least a certain minimum amount of liquidity.  

 In 2011, the Company will be required to make approximately $2.4 billion of principal payments on long-term debt and approximately $100 million in principal payments on capital leases, and the Company expects to spend approximately $1.6 billion on capital expenditures, including aircraft commitments. In addition, the fragile economy, rising fuel prices, the possibility of being required to post reserves under credit card processing    

 32   

 agreements, and the obligation to post cash collateral on fuel hedging contracts and fund pension plan contributions, among other things, may in the future negatively impact the Company’s liquidity. To maintain sufficient liquidity, and because the Company has significant debt, lease and other obligations in the next several years, including commitments to purchase aircraft, as well as significant pension funding obligations (refer to “Contractual Obligations” in Item 7), the Company will need access to substantial additional funding. An inability to obtain necessary additional funding on acceptable terms would have a material adverse impact on the Company and on its ability to sustain its operations.  

 On January 25, 2011, American closed on a $657 million offering of Class A and Class B Pass Through Trust Certificates (the Certificates). The equipment notes expected to be held by each pass through trust will be issued for each of (a) 15 Boeing 737-823 aircraft delivered new to American from 1999 to 2001, (b) six Boeing 757-223 aircraft delivered new to American in 1999 and 2001, (c) two Boeing 767-323ER aircraft delivered new to American in 1999 and (d) seven Boeing 777-223ER aircraft delivered new to American from 1999 to 2000. At closing, 27 of the aircraft were encumbered by either private mortgages or by liens to secure debt incurred in connection with the issuance of enhanced equipment trust certificates in 2001, all of which mature in 2011. As a result, the proceeds from the sale of the Certificates of each trust will initially be held in escrow with a depositary, pending the financing of each aircraft under an indenture relating to the Certificates. Interest of 5.25% and 7.00% per annum on the issued and outstanding Series A equipment notes and Series B equipment notes, respectively, will be payable semiannually on January 31 and July 31 of each year, commencing on July 31, 2011, and principal on such equipment notes is scheduled for payment on January 31 and July 31 of certain years, commencing on July 31, 2011. The payment obligations of American under the equipment notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by AMR Corporation.  

 The Company’s substantial indebtedness and other obligations have important consequences. For example, they: (i) limit the Company’s ability to obtain additional funding for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and general corporate purposes, as well as adversely affect the terms on which such funding could be obtained; (ii) require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on its indebtedness and other obligations, thereby reducing the funds available for other purposes; (iii) make the Company more vulnerable to economic downturns and catastrophic external events; and (iv) limit the Company’s ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce its flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.  

 The Company’s possible remaining financing sources primarily include: (i) a very limited amount of additional secured aircraft debt or sale leaseback transactions involving owned aircraft; (ii) debt secured by other assets; (iii) securitization of future operating receipts; (iv) the sale or monetization of certain assets; (v) unsecured debt; and (vi) issuance of equity or equity-like securities. Besides unencumbered aircraft, the Company’s most likely sources of liquidity include the financing of route authorities, takeoff and landing slots, spare parts, and the sale or financing of certain of AMR’s business units and subsidiaries, such as AMR Eagle. The Company’s ability to obtain future financing is limited by the value of its unencumbered assets. Almost all of the Company’s aircraft assets (including aircraft eligible for the benefits of Section 1110 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code) are encumbered. Also, the market value of these aircraft assets has declined in recent years, and may continue to decline. The Company believes it has at least $2 billion in assets that could be used as possible financing sources as of the date of this filing. However, many of these assets may be difficult to finance, and the availability and level of the financing sources described above cannot be assured. The Company also believes it has the ability to refinance aircraft as those aircraft become unencumbered.  

 In July 2010, the Company entered into an amendment to Purchase Agreement No. 1977 with The Boeing Company (Boeing) to exercise rights to acquire additional Boeing 737-800 aircraft. Pursuant to the amendment, American exercised rights to purchase 35 Boeing 737-800 aircraft for delivery in 2011 and 2012. In conjunction with this transaction, American has arranged for backstop financing of the additional Boeing 737-800 aircraft deliveries, subject to certain terms and conditions.  

 As of December 31, 2010, American had 15 Boeing 737-800 purchase commitments for 2011 and 28 Boeing 737-800 purchase commitments in 2012 and in addition to those commitments, American had firm commitments for eleven Boeing 737-800 aircraft and seven Boeing 777-200 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2013-2016.    

 33   

 AMR Eagle has firm commitments for 8 Bombardier CRJ-700 aircraft scheduled to be delivered in 2011. Payments for the Company’s aircraft purchase commitments will approximate $884 million in 2011, $951 million in 2012, $491 million in 2013, $291 million in 2014, $169 million for 2015, and $79 million for 2016. These amounts are net of purchase deposits currently held by the manufacturers.  

 On January 14, 2011, the Company entered into an amendment to Purchase Agreement No. 1980 with Boeing to exercise rights to acquire two Boeing 777-300ER aircraft for delivery in 2012. The Company’s total purchase commitments are expected to be approximately $2.8 billion as of the end of the first quarter 2011, reflecting this transaction and aircraft purchase deposits paid during that period.  

 In 2008, the Company entered into a new purchase agreement with Boeing for the acquisition of 42 firm Boeing 787-9 aircraft and purchase rights to acquire up to 58 additional B787 aircraft. Per the purchase agreement, the first such aircraft was scheduled to be delivered in 2012, and the last firm aircraft was scheduled to be delivered in 2018 with deliveries of additional aircraft, if any, scheduled between 2015 and 2020. In July 2010, the Company and Boeing agreed upon a revised delivery schedule due to the impact of the overall Boeing 787 program delay on American’s delivery positions. The first aircraft is currently scheduled to be delivered in 2014, and the last firm aircraft is scheduled to be delivered in 2018 with deliveries of additional aircraft, if any, scheduled between 2016 and 2021. Additionally, the revised delivery schedule includes terms and conditions consistent with the original agreement and allows the Company the confirmation rights described below.  

 Under the current 787-9 purchase agreement and supplemental agreement, except as described below, American will not be obligated to purchase a 787-9 aircraft unless it gives Boeing notice confirming its election to do so at least 18 months prior to the scheduled delivery date for that aircraft. If American does not give that notice with respect to an aircraft, the aircraft will no longer be subject to the 787-9 purchase agreement. These confirmation rights may be exercised until a specified date (May 1, 2014 under the current agreement) provided that those rights will terminate earlier if American reaches a collective bargaining agreement with its pilot union that includes provisions enabling American to utilize the 787-9 to American’s satisfaction in the operations desired by American, or if American confirms its election to purchase any of the initial 42 787-9 aircraft. While there can be no assurances, American expects that it will have reached an agreement as described above with its pilots union prior to the first notification date. In either of those events, American would become obligated to purchase all of the initial 42 aircraft then subject to the purchase agreement. If neither of those events occurs prior to the specified date (May 1, 2014 under the current agreement) then on that date American may elect to purchase all of the initial 42 aircraft then subject to the purchase agreement, and if it does not elect to do so, the purchase agreement will terminate in its entirety.  

 Credit Ratings AMR’s and American’s credit ratings are significantly below investment grade. Additional reductions in AMR’s or American’s credit ratings could further increase the Company’s borrowing or other costs and further restrict the availability of future financing.  

 Credit Card Processing and Other Reserves American has agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors to accept credit cards for the sale of air travel and other services. Under certain of these agreements, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from American’s credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including the failure of American to maintain certain levels of liquidity (as specified in each agreement).  

 Under such agreements, the amount of the reserve that may be required generally is based on the processor’s exposure to the Company under the applicable agreement and, in the case a reserve is required because of AMR’s failure to maintain a certain level of liquidity, the amount of such liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, the Company was not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. If circumstances were to occur that would allow the credit card processor to require the Company to maintain a reserve, the Company’s liquidity would be negatively impacted.  

 Cash Flow Activity The Company’s cash flow from operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2010 generated $1.2 billion, which is an increase of $311 million from the same period in 2009 primarily due to an improved revenue environment in 2010 as compared to 2009.   

 34   

 The Company made debt and capital lease payments of $1.2 billion in 2010 while capital expenditures during 2010 were $2.0 billion and primarily included new aircraft and aircraft modifications. Substantially all of the aircraft were financed through previously arranged financing transactions.  

 Due to the current value of the Company’s derivative contracts, some agreements with counterparties require collateral to be deposited by the counterparty. As of December 31, 2010, the cash collateral held by AMR from such counterparties was $73 million as compared to $14 million held by such counterparties at December 31, 2009. Cash held at December 31, 2010 from counterparties is included in short-term investments. As a result of movements in fuel prices, the cash collateral amounts held by AMR or the counterparties to such contracts, as the case may be, can vary significantly.  

 In the past, the Company has from time to time refinanced, redeemed or repurchased its debt and taken other steps to reduce its debt or lease obligations or otherwise improve its balance sheet. Going forward, depending on market conditions, its cash positions and other considerations, the Company may continue to take such actions.  

 Certain of the Company’s debt financing agreements contain loan to value ratio covenants and require the Company to periodically appraise the collateral. Pursuant to such agreements, if the loan to value ratio exceeds a specified threshold, the Company may be required to subject additional qualifying collateral (which in some cases may include cash collateral) or, in the alternative, to pay down such financing, in whole or in part, with premium (if any).  

 Compensation On January 18, 2011, the Company approved the 2011 Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) for American. All U.S. based employees of American are eligible to participate in the AIP. The AIP is American’s annual bonus plan and provides for the payment of awards in the event certain financial and/or customer service metrics are satisfied.  

 Working Capital AMR (principally American) historically operates with a working capital deficit, as do most other airline companies. In addition, the Company has historically relied heavily on external financing to fund capital expenditures. More recently, the Company has also relied on external financing to fund operating losses, employee pension obligations and debt maturities.  

 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements American has determined that it holds a significant variable interest in, but is not the primary beneficiary of, certain trusts that are the lessors under 83 of its aircraft operating leases. These leases contain a fixed price purchase option, which allows American to purchase the aircraft at a predetermined price on a specified date. However, American does not guarantee the residual value of the aircraft. As of December 31, 2010, future lease payments required under these leases totaled $1.1 billion.  

 Certain special facility revenue bonds have been issued by certain municipalities primarily to purchase equipment and improve airport facilities that are leased by American and accounted for as operating leases. Approximately $1.5 billion of these bonds (with total future payments of approximately $3.2 billion as of December 31, 2010) are guaranteed by American, AMR, or both. Approximately $177 million of these special facility revenue bonds contain mandatory tender provisions that require American to make operating lease payments sufficient to repurchase the bonds at various times: $112 million in 2014 and $65 million in 2015. Although American has the right to remarket the bonds, there can be no assurance that these bonds will be successfully remarketed. Any payments to redeem or purchase bonds that are not remarketed would generally reduce existing rent leveling accruals or are considered prepaid facility rentals and would reduce future operating lease commitments.  

 In addition, the Company had other operating leases, primarily for aircraft and airport facilities, with total future lease payments of $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2010. Entering into aircraft leases allows the Company to obtain aircraft without immediate cash outflows.   

 35   

 Contractual Obligations  

 The following table summarizes the Company’s obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2010 (in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

 36   

 Pension Obligations The Company is required to make minimum contributions to its defined benefit pension plans under the minimum funding requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), the Pension Funding Equity Act of 2004, the Pension Protection Act of 2006, and the Pension Relief Act of 2010. The Company estimates its 2011 required contribution to its defined benefit pension plans to be approximately $520 million under the provisions of these acts.  

 The Company’s obligation for pension and retiree medical and other benefits increased from $7.4 billion at December 31, 2009 to $7.9 billion at December 31, 2010, largely the result of a lower discount rate associated with declining interest rates in the bond markets in 2010. A significant portion of this increase is recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss, a component of stockholders’ equity.  

 Results of Operations  

 The Company recorded a net loss of $471 million in 2010 compared to a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009. The Company’s smaller net loss in 2010 reflects a strengthening of the revenue environment in a weak global economy which led to higher passenger revenues, partially offset by higher fuel prices. In addition to higher fuel expenses, the Company’s 2010 results were negatively impacted by $81 million in special items. The special items consist of $53 million related to the Venezuelan currency remeasurement in January 2010 and a $28 million non-cash impairment of certain routes in Latin America.  

 The Company recorded a net loss of $1.5 billion in 2009 compared to a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2008. The Company’s 2009 loss was primarily attributable to a significant decrease in passenger revenue due to lower traffic and passenger yield. The 2009 results were also negatively impacted by a net amount of $107 million in special items, restructuring charges and a non-cash tax item. 2009 special items of $184 million included the impairment of certain route and slot authorities, primarily in Latin America, and losses on certain sale leaseback transactions. Restructuring charges for 2009 were $171 million and related to announced capacity reductions, including the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the impairment of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft. Also included in 2009 results is a $248 million non-cash tax benefit resulting from the allocation of the tax expense to other comprehensive income items recognized during 2009. The 2009 restructuring charges, the 2009 non-cash tax item and the 2010 and 2009 route impairments are described in Notes 2, 8 and 11, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements.  

 The Company recorded a net loss of $2.1 billion in 2008. The Company’s 2008 results included an impairment charge of $1.1 billion to write the McDonnell Douglas MD-80 and Embraer RJ-135 fleets and certain related long-lived assets down to their estimated fair values, a $71 million accrual for employee severance cost and a $33 million expense related to the grounding of leased Airbus A300 aircraft prior to lease expiration, all in connection with announced capacity reductions and included in Special charges in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. In addition, the Company’s 2008 results included the sale of American Beacon for a net gain of $432 million included in Miscellaneous-net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the impact of a pension settlement charge of $103 million for one of the Company’s defined benefit plans included in Wages, salaries and benefits on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.  

 Revenues  

 2010 Compared to 2009 The Company’s revenues increased approximately $2.3 billion, or 11.3 percent, to $22.2 billion in 2010 compared to 2009 due to increased traffic and higher average fares. American’s passenger revenues increased by 11.5 percent, or $1.7 billion, on a capacity (ASM) increase of 1.0 percent. American’s passenger load factor increased approximately 1.2 points to 81.9 percent and passenger revenue yield per passenger mile increased 8.7 percent to 13.36 cents. This resulted in an increase in passenger revenue per available seat mile (RASM) of 10.4 percent to 10.94 cents. In 2010, American derived approximately 60 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and approximately 40 percent from international operations (flights serving    

 37   

 international destinations). Following is additional information regarding American’s domestic and international RASM and capacity:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Regional Affiliates’ passenger revenues, which are based on industry standard proration agreements for flights connecting to American flights, increased $315 million or 15.7 percent as a result of passenger yield increase of 8.4 percent. Regional Affiliates’ traffic increased 6.7 percent to 8.8 billion revenue passenger miles (RPMs), while capacity increased 5.3 percent to 12.2 billion ASMs, resulting in a 1.0 point increase in passenger load factor to 72.4 percent.  

 Cargo revenues increased 16.3 percent, or $94 million, primarily as a result of increased volume, particularly in the Latin America and Pacific regions.  

 Other revenues increased 5.3 percent, or $121 million, to $2.4 billion due to increases in certain passenger service charge volumes and fees and increased revenue associated with the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage frequent flyer program.  

 2009 Compared to 2008 The Company’s revenues decreased approximately $3.8 billion, or 16.2 percent, to $19.9 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. American’s passenger revenues decreased by 17.5 percent, or $3.2 billion, on a capacity decrease of approximately 7.2 percent year over year. Mainline passenger load factor increased approximately 0.1 points to 80.7 percent and passenger revenue yield per passenger mile decreased 11.2 percent to 12.28 cents. This resulted in a decrease in passenger revenue per available seat mile (RASM) of 11.1 percent to 9.91 cents. In 2009, American derived approximately 60 percent of its passenger revenues from domestic operations and approximately 40 percent from international operations (flights serving international destinations). Following is additional information regarding American’s domestic and international RASM and capacity:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Regional Affiliates’ passenger revenues, which are based on industry standard proration agreements for flights connecting to American flights, decreased by $474 million, or 19.1 percent, to $2.0 billion as a result of a reduction in capacity, decreased passenger traffic and lower yield. Regional Affiliates’ traffic decreased 6.7 percent to 8.3 billion revenue passenger miles (RPMs), while capacity decreased 8.2 percent to 11.6 billion ASMs, resulting in a 1.2 point increase in passenger load factor to 71.4 percent.  

 Cargo revenues decreased by 33.9 percent, or $296 million, primarily due to decreases in advertising mail and freight traffic resulting from the current economic downturn.  

 Other revenues increased 5.4 percent, or $118 million, to $2.3 billion due to increases in certain passenger service charges instituted throughout the year in 2008.   

 38   

 Operating Expenses  

 2010 Compared to 2009 The Company’s total operating expenses increased 4.5 percent, or $941 million, to $21.9 billion in 2010 compared to 2009. American’s mainline operating expenses per ASM in 2010 increased 3.2 percent compared to 2009 to 12.62 cents. The increase in operating expense was largely due to a year-over-year increase in fuel prices from $2.01 per gallon in 2009 to $2.32 per gallon in 2010, including the impact of fuel hedging. Fuel expense was the Company’s second largest single expense category in 2010 and the price increase resulted in $847 million in incremental year-over-year fuel expense in 2010 (based on the year-over-year increase in the average price per gallon multiplied by gallons consumed, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedging). A return to the recent historically high fuel prices and/or disruptions in the supply of fuel would further materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The remaining increase in operating expense was primarily due to revenue related expenses, such as credit card fees and booking fees and commissions, and increased aircraft rent related to the Company’s fleet renewal plan.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *    Not meaningful   

  (a)    Aircraft fuel expense increased primarily due to a 15.2 percent increase in the Company’s price per gallon of fuel (net of the impact of hedging losses of $142 million).  

  (b)    Commissions, booking fees and credit card expenses increased due to an 11.3 percent increase in operating revenues.  

  (c)    Aircraft rental expense increased principally due to new aircraft deliveries in 2009 and 2010.  

  (d)    Special charges in 2009 related to announced capacity reductions, the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the write down of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft to their estimated fair values.   

 .  

 2009 Compared to 2008 The Company’s total operating expenses decreased 18.5 percent, or $4.7 billion, to $20.9 billion in 2009 compared to 2008. American’s mainline operating expenses per ASM in 2009 decreased 11.9 percent compared to 2008 to 12.22 cents. The decrease in operating expense was largely due to a year-over-year decrease in AMR’s fuel prices from $3.03 per gallon in 2008 to $2.01 per gallon in 2009, including the impact of fuel hedging. The Company’s unit costs excluding fuel and special charges were greater for the year ended December 31, 2009 than the year ended December 31, 2008. Factors driving the increase include increased defined benefit pension expenses (due to the stock market decline in 2008), higher airport rent and landing fees and    

 39   

 cost pressures associated with the Company’s capacity reductions announced in 2008 and 2009 and dependability initiatives.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (a)    Aircraft fuel expense decreased primarily due to a 33.7 percent decrease in the Company’s price per gallon of fuel (net of the impact of fuel hedging) and a 7.0 percent decrease in the Company’s fuel consumption. The Company recorded $651 million in net losses and $380 million in net gains on its fuel hedging contracts for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

  (b)    Commissions, booking fees and credit card expense decreased in conjunction with the 16.2 percent decrease in the Company’s revenues.  

  (c)    Special charges in 2008 are related to an impairment charge of $1.1 billion to write down the Company’s McDonnell Douglas MD-80 and Embraer RJ-135 fleets and certain related long-lived assets to their estimated fair values. Special charges in 2009 relate to announced capacity reductions, the grounding of the Airbus A300 fleet and the write down of certain Embraer RJ-135 aircraft to their estimated fair values.  

  (d)    Other operating expenses in 2009 include $184 million for the impairment of certain route and slot authorities, primarily in Latin America, and losses on certain sale leaseback transactions.   

 Other Income (Expense)  

 Other income (expense) consists of Interest income and expense, Interest capitalized and Miscellaneous — net.  

 2010 Compared to 2009 Decreases in both short-term investment balances and interest rates caused a decrease in Interest income of $8 million, or 23.1 percent, to $26 million. Interest expense increased $79 million, or 10.7 percent, to $823 million primarily as a result of an increase in the Company’s long-term debt balance.  

 2009 Compared to 2008 Decreases in both short-term investment balances throughout most of 2009 and decreases in interest rates caused a decrease in Interest income of $147 million, or 81.2 percent, to $34 million. Interest expense decreased $59 million, or 7.3 percent, to $744 million primarily as a result of a decrease in the Company’s long-term debt balance throughout most of 2009 and decreases in interest rates on variable rate debt.  

 Income Tax Benefit  

 The Company has recorded in 2010 and 2009 an income tax expense credit of approximately $30 million and $36 million, respectively, resulting from the Company’s anticipated election under applicable sections of the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 and Section 3081 of the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (as extended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009),    

 40   

 allowing corporations to accelerate utilization of certain research and alternative minimum tax (AMT) credit carryforwards in lieu of applicable bonus depreciation on certain qualifying capital investments.  

 The Company did not record a net tax provision (benefit) associated with 2008 net loss due to the Company providing a valuation allowance, as discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. However, during 2009, the Company generated a pre-tax loss of $1.8 billion and other comprehensive income of approximately $701 million. In accordance with accounting standards, the net zero tax provision is required to be allocated between Operating loss and Accumulated other comprehensive income. Application of this guidance during 2009 resulted in a non-cash income tax benefit of $248 million, offset by a $248 million charge to other comprehensive income related to such items being recognized in 2009. See Note 8 for additional information regarding the allocation of income tax benefit to Operating income and Accumulated other comprehensive income.  

 Operating Statistics  

 The following table provides statistical information for American and Regional Affiliates for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (*)    Excludes $2.7 billion, $2.5 billion and $3.1 billion of expense incurred related to Regional Affiliates in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively   

 Outlook   

 The Company currently expects capacity for American’s mainline jet operations to increase by approximately 3.8% in the first quarter of 2011 versus first quarter 2010. American’s mainline capacity for the full year 2011 is expected to increase approximately 3.6% from 2010 with a 1% increase in domestic capacity and a 7.7% growth in international capacity.  

 The Company expects first quarter 2011 mainline unit costs to increase approximately 1.6 percent year over year. The first quarter 2011 unit cost expectations reflect the increase in the cost of fuel during the second half of 2010 and projected fuel prices in 2011. Despite anticipated higher revenue-related expenses (such as booking fees and commissions) and financing costs related to the Company’s new Boeing 737-800 aircraft, the Company expects first quarter mainline unit costs excluding fuel to be 3.2% lower than the prior year periods.   

 41   

 The Company’s results are significantly affected by the price of jet fuel, which is in turn affected by a number of factors beyond the Company’s control. Although fuel prices abated considerably from the record high prices recorded in July 2008, they have increased since the first quarter of 2009, particularly recently, and remain high and extremely volatile by historical standards.  

 Other Information  

 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of the Company’s financial statements in conformity with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The Company believes its estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, actual results and the timing of the recognition of such amounts could differ from those estimates. The Company has identified the following critical accounting policies and estimates used by management in the preparation of the Company’s financial statements: long-lived assets, routes, passenger revenue, frequent flyer program, stock compensation, pensions and retiree medical and other benefits, income taxes and derivatives accounting.  

 Long-lived assets — The Company has approximately $16 billion of long-lived assets as of December 31, 2010, including approximately $15 billion related to flight equipment and other fixed assets. In addition to the original cost of these assets, the recorded value of the Company’s fixed assets is impacted by a number of estimates made by the Company, including estimated useful lives, salvage values and the Company’s determination as to whether aircraft are temporarily or permanently grounded. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Company records impairment charges on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the assets may be impaired, the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets are less than the carrying amount of those assets and the net book value of the assets exceeds their estimated fair value. In making these determinations, the Company uses certain assumptions, including, but not limited to: (i) estimated fair value of the assets; and (ii) estimated future cash flows expected to be generated by the assets, generally evaluated at a fleet level, which are based on additional assumptions such as asset utilization, length of service and estimated salvage values. A change in the Company’s fleet plan has been the primary indicator that has resulted in an impairment charge in the past.  

 The majority of American’s fleet types are depreciated over 30 years. It is possible that the ultimate lives of the Company’s aircraft will be significantly different than the current estimate due to unforeseen events in the future that impact the Company’s fleet plan, including positive or negative developments in the areas described above. For example, operating the aircraft for a longer period will result in higher maintenance, fuel and other operating costs than if the Company replaced the aircraft. At some point in the future, higher operating costs, including higher fuel expense, and/or improvement in the Company’s economic condition, could change the Company’s analysis of the impact of retaining aircraft versus replacing them with new aircraft.  

 In the fourth quarter of 2009, due to the continuing severe downturn in the global economy and weakness in the regional jet aircraft market, the Company’s plan to sell certain of its Embraer RJ-135 aircraft was no longer feasible at the amount for which these aircraft had been valued. Consequently, the Company reclassified these aircraft from held for sale to held for use, tested them for impairment and concluded the carrying values of certain of its Embraer RJ-135 aircraft were no longer recoverable.  

 In the second quarter of 2008, due to the Company’s capacity reduction announcement, the Company concluded a triggering event had occurred and required that fixed assets be tested for impairment. As a result of that testing, the Company recorded impairment charges related to its McDonnell Douglas MD-80 aircraft and Embraer RJ-135 aircraft. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for more information.  

 International Slots and Route Authorities — AMR performs annual impairment tests on its international slots and route authorities, which are indefinite life intangible assets and as a result they are not amortized. As discussed above, the Company also performs impairment tests when events and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired. These tests are primarily based on estimates of discounted future cash flows, using assumptions based on historical results adjusted to reflect the Company’s best estimate of future market and operating conditions and also consideration of markets for these assets. The net carrying value of assets not recoverable is reduced to fair    

 42   

 value. The Company’s estimates of fair value represent its best estimate based on industry trends and reference to market rates and transactions.  

 During 2009, the Company adopted guidance on measuring the fair value of assets and liabilities. The guidance introduces a framework for measuring fair value primarily based on exit prices and expands required disclosure about fair value measurements of assets and liabilities.  

 The Company had recorded international slots and route authorities of $708 million as of December 31, 2010. The Company estimates the fair value of these assets based on market information and estimated future cash flows. The Company believes its estimates and assumptions are reasonable; however, given the significant uncertainty regarding how open skies agreements will ultimately affect the Company’s operations at Heathrow and Narita, and other international locations that are evaluating “open skies”, as well as volatility in the revenue and fuel environment, the actual results could differ from those estimates. Further, as a part of the annual impairment test, it was determined that the fair value of certain routes in Latin America was less than the carrying value, and therefore, the Company recorded an impairment charge. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the valuation of the Company’s routes.  

 Passenger revenue — Passenger ticket sales are initially recorded as a component of Air traffic liability. Revenue derived from ticket sales is recognized at the time service is provided. However, due to various factors, including the industry’s pricing structure and interline agreements throughout the industry, certain amounts are recognized in revenue using estimates regarding both the timing of the revenue recognition and the amount of revenue to be recognized, including breakage. These estimates are generally based upon the evaluation of historical trends, including the use of regression analysis and other methods to model the outcome of future events based on the Company’s historical experience, and are recognized at the scheduled time of departure. The Company’s estimation techniques have been applied consistently from year to year. However, due to changes in the Company’s ticket refund policy and changes in the travel profile of customers, historical trends may not be representative of future results.  

 Frequent flyer program — American uses the incremental cost method to account for the portion of its frequent flyer liability incurred when AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American or its regional affiliates.  

 The Company considers breakage in its incremental cost calculation and recognizes breakage on AAdvantage miles sold over the estimated period of usage for sold miles that are ultimately redeemed. The Company calculates its breakage estimate using separate breakage rates for miles earned by flying on American and miles earned through other companies who have purchased AAdvantage miles for distribution to their customers, due to differing behavior patterns. Management considers historical patterns of account breakage to be a useful indicator when estimating future breakage. Future program redemption opportunities can significantly alter customer behavior from historical patterns with respect to inactive accounts. Such changes may result in material changes to the frequent flyer liability, as well as recognized revenues from the program.  

 American includes fuel, food, and passenger insurance costs in the calculation of incremental cost. These estimates are generally updated based upon the Company’s 12-month historical average of such costs. American also accrues a frequent flyer liability for the mileage credits expected to be used for travel on participating airlines based on historical usage patterns and contractual rates.  

 Revenue earned from selling AAdvantage miles to other companies is recognized in two components. The first component represents the revenue for air transportation sold and is valued at fair value. This revenue is deferred along with revenue related to expected breakage of sold miles and recognized over the period the mileage is expected to be used, which is currently estimated to be 28 months. The second revenue component, based on the residual method and representing the marketing services sold, is recognized as related services are provided.  

 The Company’s total liability for future AAdvantage award redemptions for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle or participating airlines, as well as unrecognized revenue from selling AAdvantage miles to other companies, was approximately $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively (and is recorded as a component of Air traffic liability in the consolidated balance sheets),    

 43   

 representing 16.3 percent and 19.2 percent of AMR’s total current liabilities, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

 The approximate number of free travel awards used for travel on American and American Eagle was 5.6 million one-way travel awards in 2010 (or 2.8 million round trip awards) and 5.2 million one-way travel awards in 2009 (or 2.6 million round trip travel awards) representing approximately 8.8 and 8.9 percent of passengers boarded in each year, respectively. The Company believes displacement of revenue passengers is minimal given the Company’s load factors, its ability to manage frequent flyer seat inventory, and the relatively low ratio of free award usage to total passengers boarded.  

 Changes to the percentage of the amount of revenue deferred, deferred recognition period, percentage of awards expected to be redeemed for travel on participating airlines, breakage or cost per mile estimates could have a significant impact on the Company’s revenues or incremental cost accrual in the year of the change as well as in future years.  

 Stock Compensation — The Company grants awards under its various share based payment plans and utilizes option pricing models or fair value models to estimate the fair value of its awards. Certain awards contain a market performance condition, which is taken into account in estimating the fair value on the date of grant. The fair value of those awards is calculated by multiplying the stock price on the date of grant by the expected payout percentage and the number of shares granted. The Company accounts for these awards over the three year term of the award based on the grant date fair value, provided adequate shares are available to settle the awards. For awards where adequate shares are not anticipated to be available or that only permit settlement in cash, the fair value is re-measured each reporting period.  

 Pensions and retiree medical and other benefits — The Company recognizes the funded status (i.e., the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligations) of its pension and postretirement plans in the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding adjustment to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).  

 The Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit costs and liabilities are calculated using various actuarial assumptions and methodologies. The Company uses certain assumptions including, but not limited to, the selection of the: (i) discount rate; (ii) expected return on plan assets; and (iii) expected health care cost trend rate and, starting in 2007 (iv) the estimated age of pilot retirement (as discussed below).  

 These assumptions as of December 31 were:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 When establishing our discount rate, to measure our obligations, we match high quality corporate bonds available in the marketplace whose cash flows approximate our projected benefit disbursements. Lowering the discount rate by 50 basis points as of December 31, 2010 would increase the Company’s pension and postretirement benefits obligations by approximately $850 million and $170 million, respectively, and increase estimated 2011 pension and postretirement benefits expense by $80 million and less than $1 million, respectively.  

 The expected return on plan assets is based upon an evaluation of the Company’s historical trends and experience taking into account current and expected market conditions and the Company’s target asset allocation of    

 44   

 35 percent longer duration corporate and U.S. government/agency bonds, 28 percent U.S. value stocks, 20 percent developed international stocks, 6 percent emerging markets stocks and bonds and 11 percent alternative (private) investments. The expected return on plan assets component of the Company’s net periodic benefit cost is calculated based on the fair value of plan assets and the Company’s target asset allocation. The Company monitors its actual asset allocation and believes that its long-term asset allocation will continue to approximate its target allocation. The Company’s historical annualized ten-year rate of return on plan assets, calculated using a geometric compounding of monthly returns, is approximately 7.7 percent as of December 31, 2010. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets by 50 basis points as of December 31, 2010 would increase estimated 2011 pension expense by approximately $40 million.  

 The health care cost trend rate is based upon an evaluation of the Company’s historical trends and experience taking into account current and expected market conditions. Increasing the assumed health care cost trend rate by 100 basis points would increase estimated 2011 postretirement benefits expense by $22 million.  

 Income taxes — The Company generally believes that the positions taken on previously filed income tax returns are more likely than not to be sustained by the taxing authorities. The Company has recorded income tax and related interest liabilities where the Company believes its position may not be sustained or where the full income tax benefit will not be recognized. The effects of potential income tax benefits resulting from the Company’s unrecognized tax positions are not reflected in the tax balances of the financial statements. Recognized and unrecognized tax positions are reviewed and adjusted as events occur that affect the Company’s judgment about the recognizability of income tax benefits, such as lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, conclusion of tax audits, release of administrative guidance, or rendering of a court decision affecting a particular tax position. The Company records a deferred tax asset valuation allowance when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of its deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company considers its historical earnings, trends, and outlook for future years in making this determination. The Company had a deferred tax valuation allowance of $3.0 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2010 and 2009. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

 Derivatives — As required by U.S. GAAP, the Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. In doing so, the Company uses a regression model to determine the correlation of the change in prices of the commodities used to hedge jet fuel (e.g., NYMEX Heating oil) to the change in the price of jet fuel. The Company also monitors the actual dollar offset of the hedges’ market values as compared to hypothetical jet fuel hedges. The fuel hedge contracts are generally deemed to be “highly effective” if the R-squared is greater than 80 percent and the dollar offset correlation is within 80 percent to 125 percent. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively if it determines that a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective as a hedge or if it decides to discontinue the hedging relationship. The fair value of the Company’s hedging contracts is recorded in Current Assets or Current Liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and is recorded gross of the collateral posted and on a trade basis. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had derivative contracts in an asset position at fair value of $269 million including a liability related to contracts that settled in December. A deferred gain of $153 million was recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) at December 31, 2010 and will be recognized in future periods as contracts settle.  

 New Accounting Pronouncements  

 In November of 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new guidance that significantly changes the accounting for revenue in arrangements with multiple deliverables by requiring entities to separately account for individual deliverables in more of these arrangements and estimate the fair value of each component individually on a pro-rata basis. The guidance removes the criterion that entities must use vendor-specific objective and reliable evidence of fair value when separately accounting for deliverables, allowing for the recognition of revenue in a manner that more closely aligns with the economics of certain arrangements, based on management’s estimate of the selling price. The standard must be applied prospectively to revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. In addition, the FASB significantly expanded the disclosures related to multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. Although the Company continues to evaluate the impact of the adoption of this standard on its consolidated financial statements, the    

 45   

 Company believes the impact of adoption will not be material in 2011, but could have a significant impact on future results as new or materially modified revenue arrangements with certain partners are established in the normal course of business.  

 Glossary of Defined Terms  

 ASM — Available Seat Mile. A measure of capacity. ASMs equal the total number of seats available for transporting passengers during a reporting period multiplied by the total number of miles flown during that period.  

 CASM — (Operating) Cost per Available Seat Mile. The amount of operating cost incurred per ASM during a reporting period, also referred to as “unit cost.”  

 Passenger Load Factor — A measure of utilized available seating capacity calculated by dividing RPMs by ASMs for a reporting period.  

 Passenger Mile Yield or Yield — The amount of passenger revenue earned per RPM during a reporting period.  

 RASM— Passenger Revenue per ASM. The amount of passenger revenue earned per ASM during a reporting period. Passenger RASM is also referred to as “unit revenue.”  

 RPM — Revenue Passenger Mile. One revenue-paying passenger transported one mile. RPMs equal the number of revenue passengers during a reporting period multiplied by the number of miles flown by those passengers during that during that period. RPMs are also referred to as “traffic.”  

  ITEM 7(A).    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK    

 Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions   

 The risk inherent in the Company’s market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in the price of fuel, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates as discussed below. The sensitivity analyses presented do not consider the effects that such adverse changes may have on overall economic activity, nor do they consider additional actions management may take to mitigate the Company’s exposure to such changes. Therefore, actual results may differ. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for accounting policies and additional information regarding derivatives.  

 Aircraft Fuel The Company’s earnings are substantially affected by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. In order to provide a measure of control over price and supply, the Company trades and ships fuel and maintains fuel storage facilities to support its flight operations. The Company also manages the price risk of fuel costs primarily by using jet fuel and heating oil hedging contracts. Market risk is estimated as a hypothetical 10 percent increase in the December 31, 2010 and 2009 cost per gallon of fuel. Based on projected 2011 fuel usage, such an increase would result in an increase to Aircraft fuel expense of approximately $502 million in 2011, inclusive of the impact of effective fuel hedge instruments outstanding at December 31, 2010, and assumes the Company’s fuel hedging program remains effective. Such an increase would have resulted in an increase to projected Aircraft fuel expense of approximately $499 million in 2010, inclusive of the impact of fuel hedge instruments outstanding at December 31, 2009. As of January 2011, the Company had cash flow hedges, with collars and options, covering approximately 35 percent of its estimated 2011 fuel requirements. Comparatively, as of December 31, 2009, the Company had hedged, with collars and options, approximately 24 percent of its estimated 2010 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2011 by cash flow hedges is capped at an average price of approximately $2.52 per gallon of jet fuel, and the Company’s collars have an average floor price of approximately $1.92 per gallon of jet fuel (both the capped and floor price exclude taxes and transportation costs). The Company’s collars represent approximately 30 percent of its estimated 2011 fuel requirements. A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future.  

 Ineffectiveness is inherent in hedging jet fuel with derivative positions based in crude oil or other crude oil related commodities. The Company assesses, both at the inception of each hedge and on an ongoing basis, whether the derivatives that are used in its hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. In doing so, the Company uses a regression model to determine the correlation of the change in prices    

 46   

 of the commodities used to hedge jet fuel (e.g., NYMEX Heating oil) to the change in the price of jet fuel. The Company also monitors the actual dollar offset of the hedges’ market values as compared to hypothetical jet fuel hedges. The fuel hedge contracts are generally deemed to be “highly effective” if the R-squared is greater than 80 percent and the dollar offset correlation is within 80 percent to 125 percent. The Company discontinues hedge accounting prospectively if it determines that a derivative is no longer expected to be highly effective as a hedge or if it decides to discontinue the hedging relationship.  

 Foreign Currency The Company is exposed to the effect of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated operating revenues and expenses. The Company’s largest exposure comes from the British pound, Euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and various Latin American currencies. The Company does not currently have a foreign currency hedge program related to its foreign currency-denominated ticket sales. A uniform 10 percent strengthening in the value of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2010 and 2009 levels relative to each of the currencies in which the Company has foreign currency exposure would result in a decrease in operating income of approximately $170 million and $136 million for the years ending December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, due to the Company’s foreign-denominated revenues exceeding its foreign-denominated expenses. This sensitivity analysis was prepared based upon projected 2011 and 2010 foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  

 On January 11, 2010, the Venezuelan Government devalued its currency from 2.15 bolivars per U.S. dollar to 4.30 bolivars per U.S. dollar and the currency was designated as hyperinflationary. As a result, the Company recognized a loss of $53 million related to the currency remeasurement in January 2010. The Company does not expect any significant ongoing impact of the currency devaluation on its operations in Venezuela, but there can be no assurances to that effect.  

 Interest The Company’s earnings are also affected by changes in interest rates due to the impact those changes have on its interest income from cash and short-term investments, and its interest expense from variable-rate debt instruments. The Company’s largest exposure with respect to variable rate debt comes from changes in the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). The Company had variable rate debt instruments representing approximately 23 percent of its total long-term debt at December 31, 2010 and 2009. If the Company’s interest rates average 10 percent more in 2011 than they did at December 31, 2010, the Company’s interest expense would increase by approximately $7 million and interest income from cash and short-term investments would increase by approximately $3 million. In comparison, at December 31, 2009, the Company estimated that if interest rates averaged 10 percent more in 2010 than they did at December 31, 2009, the Company’s interest expense would have increased by approximately $8 million and interest income from cash and short-term investments would have increased by approximately $1 million. These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on the Company’s variable rate long-term debt and cash and short-term investment balances at December 31, 2010 and 2009.  

 Market risk for fixed rate long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates and amounts to approximately $237 million and $316 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The fair values of the Company’s long-term debt were estimated using quoted market prices or discounted future cash flows based on the Company’s incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements.   

 47   

  ITEM 8.    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS