PART I  

  ITEM 1.    BUSINESS    

 AMR Corporation (AMR or the Company) was incorporated in October 1982. Virtually all of AMR’s operations fall within the airline industry. AMR’s principal subsidiary, American Airlines, Inc. (American), was founded in 1934. At the end of 2010, American provided scheduled jet service to approximately 160 destinations throughout North America, the Caribbean, Latin America, Europe and Asia.  

 AMR Eagle Holding Corporation (AMR Eagle), a wholly-owned subsidiary of AMR, owns two regional airlines which do business as “American Eagle” — American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc. (collectively, the American Eagle® carriers). American also contracts with an independently owned regional airline, which does business as “AmericanConnection” (the AmericanConnection® carrier).  

 The AMR Eagle fleet is operated to feed passenger traffic to American pursuant to a capacity purchase agreement between American and AMR Eagle under which American receives all passenger revenue from flights and pays AMR Eagle a fee for each flight. The capacity purchase agreement reflects what the Company believes are current market rates received by other regional carriers for similar flying. Amounts paid to AMR Eagle under the capacity purchase agreement are available to pay for various operating expenses of AMR Eagle, such as crew expenses, maintenance and aircraft ownership. As of December 31, 2010, AMR Eagle operated approximately 1,500 daily departures, offering scheduled passenger service to over 175 destinations in North America, Mexico and the Caribbean. On a separate company basis, AMR Eagle reported $2.3 billion in revenue in 2010. However, this historical financial information is not indicative of what AMR Eagle’s future revenues might be if AMR Eagle were a stand-alone entity.  

 American, AMR Eagle and the AmericanConnection® airline serve more than 250 cities in approximately 50 countries with, on average, 3,400 daily flights. The combined network fleet numbers approximately 900 aircraft. American Airlines is also a founding member of oneworld® alliance, which enables member airlines to offer their customers more services and benefits than any member airline can provide individually. These services include a broader route network, opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles across the combined oneworld network and more airport lounges. Together, oneworld members serve 750 destinations in approximately 150 countries, with about 8,500 daily departures. American is also one of the largest scheduled air freight carriers in the world, providing a wide range of freight and mail services to shippers throughout its system onboard American’s passenger fleet.  

 Competition  

 Domestic Air Transportation  The domestic airline industry is fiercely competitive. Currently, any United States (U.S.) air carrier deemed fit by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its possessions. Most major air carriers have developed hub-and-spoke systems and schedule patterns in an effort to maximize the revenue potential of their service. American operates in five primary domestic markets: Dallas/Fort Worth (DFW), Chicago O’Hare, Miami, New York City and Los Angeles.  

 The American Eagle® carriers increase the number of markets the Company serves by providing connections at American’s primary markets. The AmericanConnection® carrier currently provides connecting service to American through Chicago O’Hare. American’s competitors also own or have marketing agreements with regional carriers which provide similar services at their major hubs and other locations.  

 On most of its domestic non-stop routes, the Company faces competing service from at least one, and sometimes more than one, domestic airline including: AirTran Airways (Air Tran), Alaska Airlines (Alaska), Continental Airlines (Continental), Delta Air Lines (including Northwest Airlines) (Delta), Frontier Airlines, JetBlue Airways (JetBlue), Hawaiian Airlines, Southwest Airlines (Southwest), Spirit Airlines, United Airlines (United), US Airways, Virgin America Airlines and their affiliated regional carriers. Competition is even greater between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs. In addition, the Company faces competition on some of its connecting routes from carriers operating point-to-point service on such    

 1   

 routes. The Company also competes with all-cargo and charter carriers and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation. On all of its routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines.  

 American commenced commercial collaboration in New York and Boston with JetBlue during 2010. American’s agreement with JetBlue provides customers with interline service in non-overlapping markets, letting customers connect between 15 of American’s international destinations from New York and Boston and 26 domestic cities flown by JetBlue. Further, American expanded its relationship with JetBlue so that AAdvantage members and members of JetBlue’s customer loyalty program will be able to earn AAdvantage miles or JetBlue points, respectively, when they fly on American and JetBlue cooperative interline routes.  

 Most of the Company’s largest domestic competitors and several smaller carriers have reorganized under the protection of Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Chapter 11) in recent years. It is possible that in the future one or more of the Company’s competitors may seek to reorganize in or out of Chapter 11. Successful reorganizations present the Company with competitors with significantly lower operating costs derived from renegotiated labor, supply and financing contracts.  

 International Air Transportation  In addition to its extensive domestic service, the Company provides international service to the Caribbean, Canada, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The Company’s operating revenues from foreign operations (flights serving international destinations) were approximately 40 percent of the Company’s total operating revenues in each of the three years 2010, 2009, and 2008. Additional information about the Company’s foreign operations is included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 In providing international air transportation, the Company competes with foreign investor-owned carriers, foreign state-owned carriers and U.S. airlines that have been granted authority to provide scheduled passenger and cargo service between the U.S. and various overseas locations. In general, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets beyond the nonstop city pair have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers’ rights to carry passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. To improve access to each other’s markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers — including American — have established marketing relationships with other airlines and rail companies. American currently has marketing relationships with Air Berlin, Air Pacific, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, China Eastern Airlines, Dragonair, Deutsche Bahn German Rail, EL AL, Etihad Airways, EVA Air, Finnair, GOL, Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Japan Airlines (JAL), Jet Airways, JetStar Airways, LAN (includes LAN Airlines, LAN Argentina, LAN Ecuador and LAN Peru), Malév Hungarian Airlines, Niki Airlines, Qantas Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, and Vietnam Airlines.  

 American is also a founding member of the oneworld alliance, which includes British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, LAN Airlines, Iberia, Qantas, JAL, Malév Hungarian, Mexicana, Royal Jordanian and S7 Airlines. S7 Airlines, which is Russia’s largest domestic airline, joined the oneworld alliance in November 2010. Kingfisher, India’s leading domestic airline, is scheduled to join the alliance in 2011 and Air Berlin, the 5th largest airline in Europe, is scheduled to join in 2012. The oneworld alliance links the networks of the member carriers to enhance customer service and smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers’ frequent flyer programs and access to the carriers’ airport lounge facilities.  

 In July 2010, American obtained clearance from the European Commission (EC) and approval by the DOT for antitrust immunity (ATI) for its cooperation with British Airways, Iberia, Finnair and Royal Jordanian. This approval enables American, British Airways and Iberia, through a joint business agreement (JBA), to cooperate on flights between North America and most countries in Europe, and allows pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, expanded codesharing, enhanced frequent flyer program reciprocity, and cooperation in other areas. American began implementation of the JBA with British Airways and Iberia and expanded cooperation with Finnair and Royal Jordanian in October 2010.  

 In February 2010, American and JAL entered into a JBA which will enhance their scope of cooperation on routes between North America and Asia through adjustments to their respective networks, flight schedules, and other business activities. This, in turn, will allow both carriers to better complement each other’s operations and to develop and offer competitive products and quality service to their customers. In the fourth quarter of 2010,    

 2   

 American and JAL received approval for ATI on certain routes between North America and Asia from the DOT and the Ministry of Land Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism of Japan (MLIT). Implementation of the JBA is subject to successful negotiation of certain detailed financial and commercial arrangements and other approvals. American expects to begin implementing the JBA with JAL in 2011.  

 Price Competition  The airline industry is characterized by substantial and intense price competition. Fare discounting by competitors has historically had a negative effect on the Company’s financial results because the Company is generally required to match competitors’ fares, as failing to match would provide even less revenue due to customers’ price sensitivity.  

 There are a number of low-cost carriers (LCCs) in the domestic market and the Company competes with LCCs over a very large part of its network. Several major airlines, including the Company, have implemented efforts to lower their costs since lower cost structures enable airlines to offer lower fares. In addition, several air carriers have reorganized in recent years under Chapter 11, including United, Delta and US Airways. These cost reduction efforts and bankruptcy reorganizations have allowed carriers to decrease operating costs. In the past, lower cost structures have generally resulted in fare reductions. If fare reductions by the Company are not offset by increases in passenger traffic, changes in the mix of traffic that improve yields and/or cost reductions, the Company’s operating results will be negatively impacted.  

 Regulation  

 General  The Airline Deregulation Act of 1978, as amended, eliminated most domestic economic regulation of passenger and freight transportation. However, DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) still exercise certain regulatory authority over air carriers. DOT maintains jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, certain consumer protection and competition matters, such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability.  

 The FAA regulates flying operations generally, including establishing standards for personnel, aircraft and certain security measures. As part of that oversight, the FAA has implemented a number of requirements that the Company has incorporated and is incorporating into its maintenance programs. The Company is progressing toward the completion of over 500 airworthiness directives, a number of which require the Company to perform significant maintenance work and to incur additional expenses. Based on its current implementation schedule, the Company expects to be in compliance with the applicable requirements within the required time periods. DOT and DOJ have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act, which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and collective bargaining agreements. In addition, as a result of heightened levels of concern regarding data privacy, the Company is subject to an increasing number of domestic and foreign laws regarding the privacy and security of passenger and employee data.  

 In December 2009, the DOT issued a new rule intended to enhance air passenger protections. The new rule, which went into effect in April 2010, created new areas of regulation in passenger protection, including a requirement that certain carriers, including American, adopt contingency plans for lengthy tarmac delays at most U.S. airports. A carrier’s failure to meet certain service performance criteria under the rule could subject it to substantial civil penalties.  

 On September 10, 2010, the FAA introduced a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) to change for all carriers certificated under Part 121 of the Federal Aviation Regulations, including American and the AMR Eagle carriers, the required amount and timing of rest periods for pilots between work assignments, modifying duty and rest requirements based on the time of day, number of scheduled segments, flight types, time zones and other factors. The Company and other carriers are seeking clarification with the FAA of certain provisions of the proposed rule changes to determine if the new requirements could have a material adverse impact on the Company. If these regulations were promulgated in their current form, we believe they could have a material adverse impact on the Company.   

 3   

 International  International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation. The Company’s operating authority in international markets is subject to aviation agreements between the U.S. and the respective countries or governmental authorities (such as the European Union), and in some cases, fares and schedules require the approval of DOT and/or the relevant foreign governments. Moreover, alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. Bilateral and multilateral agreements among the U.S. and various foreign governments of countries served by the Company are periodically subject to renegotiation. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of route authorities, or otherwise adversely affect the Company’s international operations. In addition, at some foreign airports, an air carrier needs slots (landing and take-off authorizations) before the air carrier can introduce new service or increase existing service. The availability of such slots is not assured and the inability of the Company to obtain and retain needed slots could therefore inhibit its efforts to compete in certain international markets.  

 In April 2007, the U.S. and the EU approved an open skies air services agreement that provides airlines from the U.S. and EU member states open access to each other’s markets, with freedom of pricing and unlimited rights to fly beyond the U.S. and any airport in the EU including London’s Heathrow Airport. The provisions of the agreement took effect on March 30, 2008. Under the agreement, every U.S. and EU airline is authorized to operate between airports in the U.S. and Heathrow. Notwithstanding the open skies agreement, Heathrow is a slot-controlled airport. The agreement has resulted in the Company facing increased competition in serving Heathrow. The Company is also facing competition in other European markets. In March 2010, the EU and the U.S. committed to the extension of the “open skies” air services agreement. The extension of this agreement reinforces the relationship between the EU and the U.S. and furthers the cause of aviation liberalization. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.  

 In December 2009, the U.S. and Japan reached a tentative open skies air services agreement that provides airlines from the U.S. and Japan open access to each other’s markets. The tentative agreement was signed by U.S. and Japanese representatives on October 25, 2010. The open skies agreement enables carriers of the two parties to operate between any two airports in the U.S. and Japan as well as fly to points beyond the two countries without restriction.  

 The U.S. and Colombia reached an open skies aviation pact in November 2010 that will remove restrictions between the two countries by the end of 2012. The proposed deal, which still needs to be finalized, will remove existing restrictions on the number of flights that can be operated between the countries. Also in 2010, the U.S. and Brazil entered into an open skies aviation services agreement that will provide for a phase-in of open skies by October 2015. The agreement immediately removes restrictions on pricing and on the routes between each country that can be served by U.S. and Brazilian scheduled and charter airlines.  

 Security  In November 2001, the Aviation and Transportation Security Act (ATSA) was enacted in the U.S. The ATSA created a new government agency, the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), which is part of the Department of Homeland Security and is responsible for aviation security. The ATSA mandates that the TSA provide for the screening of all passengers and property, including U.S. mail, cargo, carry-on and checked baggage, and other articles that will be carried aboard a passenger aircraft. The ATSA also provides for security in flight decks of aircraft and requires federal air marshals to be present on certain flights.  

 Effective February 1, 2002, the ATSA imposed a $2.50 per enplanement security service fee, which is being collected by the air carriers and submitted to the government to pay for these enhanced security measures. Additionally, air carriers are annually required to submit to the government an amount equal to what the air carriers paid for screening passengers and property in 2000. In recent years, the government has sought to increase both of these fees under spending proposals for the Department of Homeland Security. American and other carriers have announced their opposition to these proposals as there is no assurance that any increase in fees could be passed on to customers.  

 Airline Fares  Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which the Company serves. While air carriers are required to file and adhere to international fare    

 4   

 and rate tariffs, substantial commissions, fare overrides and discounts to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers characterize many international markets.  

 Airport Access  Operations at four major domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by the Company are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of “slots” or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period.  

 In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C., LaGuardia and JFK in New York, and Newark. The Company’s operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or analogous regulatory authorities. Similarly, the Company’s operations at Tokyo’s Narita Airport, London’s Heathrow Airport and other international airports are regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the International Air Transport Association’s Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. The Company currently has sufficient slots or analogous authorizations to operate its existing flights, and it has generally been able to obtain the rights to expand its operations and to change its schedules. There is no assurance, however, that the Company will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in governmental policies.  

 In 2006, the Wright Amendment Reform Act of 2006 (the Act) became law. The Act is based on an agreement by the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, DFW International Airport, Southwest, and the Company to modify the Wright Amendment, which authorizes certain flight operations at Dallas Love Field within defined geographic areas. Among other things, the Act eventually eliminates domestic geographic restrictions on operations while limiting the maximum number of gates at Love Field. The Company believes the Act is a pragmatic resolution of the issues related to the Wright Amendment and the use of Love Field.  

 Environmental Matters  The Company is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety and health in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on the Company include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 (ANCA), the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or the Superfund Act). Certain operations of the Company concerning employee safety and health matters are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on the Company’s operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.  

 The ANCA recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have promulgated aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. The ANCA generally requires FAA approval of local noise restrictions on aircraft. While the Company has had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions imposed to date, the Company’s operations could be adversely affected if locally-imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread.  

 Many aspects of the Company’s operations are subject to increasingly stringent environmental regulations. Concerns about climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, in particular, may result in the imposition of additional legislation or regulation. For example, the EU recently approved measures that impose emissions limits on airlines with operations to, from or within the EU as part of an emissions trading system beginning in 2012. The Company is continuing to assess the potential costs of the EU measures. Such legislative or regulatory action by the U.S., state or foreign governments currently or in the future may adversely affect the Company’s business and financial results. See Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information.  

 The environmental laws to which the Company is subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. The Company is conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. The Company    

 5   

 anticipates that the ongoing costs of such activities will be immaterial. The Company has also been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. The Company’s alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs and the Company expects that any future payments of its share of costs at such sites will be immaterial.  

 Labor   

 The airline business is labor intensive. Wages, salaries and benefits represented approximately 31 percent of the Company’s consolidated operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2010. The average full-time equivalent number of employees of the Company’s subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2010 was 78,250.  

 The majority of these employees are represented by labor unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements. Relations with such labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under this act, the collective bargaining agreements among the Company’s subsidiaries and these organizations generally do not expire but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed to by the parties. Under the RLA, after receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the NMB to appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no set timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation process. It is not unusual for those processes to last for many months, and even for several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare at some time that an impasse exists, and if an impasse is declared, the NMB proffers binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration. If arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During that period (or after), a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another “cooling off” period of 30 days. At the end of a “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.  

 In April 2003, American reached agreements (the Labor Agreements) with its three major unions: the Allied Pilots Association (the APA) which represents American’s pilots, the Transport Workers Union of America (AFL-CIO) (the TWU), which represents seven different employee groups, and the Association of Professional Flight Attendants (the APFA), which represents American’s flight attendants. The Labor Agreements substantially moderated the labor costs associated with the employees represented by the unions. In conjunction with the Labor Agreements, American also implemented various changes in the pay plans and benefits for non-unionized personnel, including officers and other management (the Management Reductions). The Labor Agreements became amendable in 2008 (although the parties agreed that they could begin the negotiations process as early as 2006).  

 In 2006, American and the APA commenced negotiations under the RLA. In April of 2008, following a request by the APA, a mediator was appointed by the NMB. The parties have been in mediated negotiations since that time. The APA has filed a number of grievances, lawsuits and complaints, most of which American believes are part of a corporate campaign related to the union’s labor agreement negotiations with American. While American is vigorously defending these claims, and has achieved favorable outcomes in many of them, a number still are ongoing and unfavorable outcomes of one or more of them could require American to incur additional costs, change the way it conducts some parts of its business, or otherwise adversely affect the Company.  

 Also in 2006, American and the TWU commenced negotiations with respect only to dispatchers, one of the seven groups at American represented by the TWU. Subsequently, following a request by the parties, a mediator was appointed by the NMB for the dispatcher negotiations. Thereafter, in November 2007, American and the TWU commenced negotiations under the RLA with respect to the other employee groups represented by the TWU. Direct negotiations between American and the TWU employees with respect to those other groups continued until December 2008, at which time the parties jointly filed with the NMB for mediation with respect to the fleet service, stores, ground school instructors, and simulator technician groups of employees. The NMB appointed a mediator soon thereafter. Then, in February 2009, following a request by the TWU, a mediator was appointed by the NMB    

 6   

 with respect to the mechanics and the technical specialists. The Company negotiated tentative agreements with several workgroups within the TWU, including the Maintenance Control Technician group, the Material Logistics Specialists group and the Mechanic and Related group. Agreements with the TWU groups are subject to ratification by the relevant membership of TWU, and while the Maintenance Control Technician group ratified their agreement, the Material Logistics Specialists group and the Mechanic and Related group tentative agreements were not ratified. Mediated negotiations with the TWU with respect to those groups continue.  

 American and the APFA commenced negotiations in the first half of 2008. Direct negotiations between the parties continued until December 2008, at which time the parties jointly filed an application to the NMB asking that a mediator be appointed. The NMB appointed a mediator soon thereafter. Since that time, the parties have been conducting mediated negotiations as scheduled by the NMB.  

 The Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA), which represents American Eagle pilots, reached agreement with American Eagle effective September 1, 1997, to have all of the pilots of the American Eagle® carriers (currently American Eagle Airlines, Inc. and Executive Airlines, Inc.) covered by a single contract. This agreement lasts until January 1, 2013. The agreement provided to the parties the right to seek limited changes in 2000, 2004 and 2008. If the parties were unable to agree on the limited changes, the agreement provided that any issues would be resolved by interest arbitration, without the exercise of self-help (such as a strike). ALPA and American Eagle negotiated a tentative agreement in 2000, but that agreement failed in ratification. Thereafter, the parties participated in interest arbitration. The interest arbitration panel determined the limited changes that should be made and these changes were appropriately effected. In 2004 and in 2008, the parties successfully negotiated limited changes. The pilot agreement is amendable January 1, 2013; however, the parties have agreed that contract openers may be exchanged 120 days prior to that date.  

 The Association of Flight Attendants (AFA) represents the flight attendants of the American Eagle carriers. The current agreement between the American Eagle carriers and the AFA became amendable on October 27, 2009. The parties are in direct negotiations.  

 The other union employees at the American Eagle carriers are covered by separate agreements with the TWU. The agreements between the American Eagle carriers and the TWU were amendable beginning on October 1, 2007, and the parties commenced negotiations. In January 2009, an application for mediation was filed with the NMB and a mediator was appointed to assist the parties. In January 2010, American Eagle and the TWU reached a tentative agreement with respect to aircraft maintenance technicians and fleet service clerks for 24 months, effective the date of signing. The mechanics ratified the tentative agreement in March of 2010. The fleet service clerks failed to ratify the January 2010 tentative agreement. A second tentative agreement was reached with the TWU with respect to the fleet service clerks in June of 2010; that tentative agreement also was not ratified. Mediation with the TWU concerning American Eagle’s dispatchers and fleet services clerks continues.  

 Fuel  

 The Company’s operations and financial results are significantly affected by the availability and price of jet fuel. The Company’s fuel costs and consumption for the years 2008 through 2010 were:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The impact of fuel price changes on the Company and its competitors depends on various factors, including hedging strategies. The Company has a fuel hedging program in which it enters into jet fuel and heating oil hedging contracts to dampen the impact of the volatility of jet fuel prices. The Company does not take a view on the direction of fuel prices; instead, the Company layers in fuel hedges on a systematic basis. As a result, the impact on the Company from its fuel hedging program can be very different from the impact of fuel hedging on the Company’s competitors who follow a different hedging philosophy. Depending on movements in the price of fuel, the Company’s fuel hedging program can result in gains or losses on its fuel hedges.   

 7   

 During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s fuel hedging program increased (decreased) the Company’s fuel expense by approximately $142 million, $651 million and ($380) million, respectively. As of January 2011, the Company had cash flow hedges, with option contracts, primarily heating oil collars and call options, covering approximately 35 percent of its estimated 2011 fuel requirements. The consumption hedged for 2011 by cash flow hedges is capped at an average price of approximately $2.52 per gallon of jet fuel, and the Company’s collars have an average floor price of approximately $1.92 per gallon of jet fuel (both the capped and floor price exclude taxes and transportation costs). A deterioration of the Company’s financial position could negatively affect the Company’s ability to hedge fuel in the future. See the Risk Factors under Item 1A for additional information regarding fuel.  

 Additional information regarding the Company’s fuel program is also included in Item 7(A) “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk,” Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.  

 Frequent Flyer Program   

 American established the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program (AAdvantage) to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. The Company believes that the AAdvantage program is one of its competitive strengths. AAdvantage benefits from a growing base of approximately 67 million members with desirable demographics who have demonstrated a strong willingness to collect AAdvantage miles over other loyalty program incentives and are generally disposed to adjusting their purchasing behavior in order to earn additional AAdvantage miles. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, American Eagle, and the AmericanConnection® carrier or by using services of other participants in the AAdvantage program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free, discounted or upgraded travel on American, American Eagle or other participating airlines, or for other awards. Once a member accrues sufficient mileage for an award, the member may book award travel. Most travel awards are subject to capacity controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months.  

 American sells mileage credits and related services to other participants in the AAdvantage program. There are over 1,000 program participants, including a leading credit card issuer, hotels, car rental companies and other products and services companies in the AAdvantage program. The Company believes that program participants benefit from the sustained purchasing behavior of AAdvantage members, which translates into a recurring stream of revenues for AAdvantage. Under its agreements with AAdvantage members and program participants, the Company reserves the right to change the AAdvantage program at any time without notice, and may end the program with six months notice. As of December 31, 2010, AAdvantage had approximately 67 million total members, and 587 billion outstanding award miles. During 2010, AAdvantage issued approximately 185 billion miles, of which approximately 62% were sold to program participants. See “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” under Item 7 for more information on AAdvantage.  

 Cargo  

 American Airlines Cargo, a division of American Airlines, Inc., provides over 90 million pounds of weekly cargo lift capacity to major cities in the United States, Europe, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, Latin America and Asia. American’s cargo network is one of the largest air cargo networks in the world, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. During 2010, American Airlines Cargo accounted for approximately 3.0% of the Company’s operating revenues by generating $672 million in freight and mail revenue, an increase of 16.3% versus 2009.  

 Other revenues  

 Other revenues, which approximate 10.8% of total revenues, includes revenue from the marketing services related to the sale of mileage credits in the AAdvantage program as discussed above, membership fees and related revenue from the Company’s Admirals Club operations, and other miscellaneous service revenue, including administrative service charges and baggage handling fees. Other revenues have been increasing as the Company unbundles its services and charges for ancillary services.   

 8   

 Other Matters  

 Seasonality and Other Factors  The Company’s results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year since the air transportation business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Higher demand for air travel has traditionally resulted in more favorable operating and financial results for the second and third quarters of the year than for the first and fourth quarters. Fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 2010 is included in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition, the results of operations in the air transportation business have also significantly fluctuated in the past in response to general economic conditions.  

 Insurance  The Company carries insurance for public liability, passenger liability, property damage and all-risk coverage for damage to its aircraft. As a result of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 (the Terrorist Attacks), aviation insurers significantly reduced the amount of insurance coverage available to commercial air carriers for liability to persons other than employees or passengers for claims resulting from acts of terrorism, war or similar events (war-risk coverage). At the same time, these insurers significantly increased the premiums for aviation insurance in general. While the price of commercial insurance has declined since the period immediately after the Terrorist Attacks, in the event commercial insurance carriers further reduce the amount of insurance coverage available to the Company, or significantly increase its cost, the Company would be adversely affected.  

 The U.S. government has agreed to provide commercial war-risk insurance for U.S. based airlines through September 30, 2011, covering losses to employees, passengers, third parties and aircraft. If the U.S. government were to cease providing such insurance in whole or in part, it is likely that the Company could obtain comparable coverage in the commercial market, but the Company would incur substantially higher premiums and more restrictive terms. There can be no assurance that comparable war-risk coverage will be available in the commercial market. If the Company is unable to obtain adequate war-risk coverage at commercially reasonable rates, the Company would be adversely affected.  

 Other Government Matters  In time of war or during a national emergency or defense oriented situation, American and other air carriers can be required to provide airlift services to the Air Mobility Command under the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program. In the event the Company has to provide a substantial number of aircraft and crew to the Air Mobility Command, its operations could be adversely impacted.  

 Available Information  The Company makes its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 available free of charge under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, the Company’s code of ethics (called the Standards of Business Conduct), which applies to all employees of the Company, including the Company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Controller, is posted under the Investor Relations page on its website, www.aa.com. The Company intends to disclose any amendments to the code of ethics, or waivers of the code of ethics on behalf of the CEO, CFO or Controller, under the Investor Relations page on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. The charters for the AMR Board of Directors’ standing committees (the Audit, Compensation, Diversity and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committees), as well as the Board of Directors’ Governance Policies (the Governance Policies), are likewise available on the Company’s website, www.aa.com. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated into or otherwise made a part of this Report.   

 9   

  ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS