Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Management believes the following sections summarize several of the most relevant matters necessary for an understanding of the financial aspects of Regions Financial Corporation’s (“Regions” or “the Company”) business, particularly regarding its 2015 results. Cross references to more detailed information regarding each topic within Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) and the consolidated financial statements are included. This summary is intended to assist in understanding the information provided, but should be read in conjunction with the entire MD&A and consolidated financial statements, as well as the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

2015 Results

Regions reported net income available to common shareholders from continuing operations of $1.0 billion, or $0.76 per diluted share, in 2015 compared to net income available to common shareholders from continuing operations of $1.1 billion, or $0.78 per diluted share, in 2014. 

Net interest income and other financing income (taxable-equivalent basis) from continuing operations totaled $3.4 billion in 2015 compared to $3.3 billion in 2014. The net interest margin (taxable-equivalent basis) was 3.13 percent in 2015, reflecting an 8 basis point decrease from 2014 primarily due to decreases in yields on earning assets exceeding the decline in funding costs. 

The provision for loan losses totaled $241 million in 2015 compared to $69 million in 2014. The increase in the provision for loan losses was primarily due to an increase in criticized and classified commercial loans in 2015 compared to 2014. The increase in the criticized and classified loans was isolated primarily to a small number of larger loans within the energy portfolio. Net charge-offs were 0.30 percent of average loans in 2015, compared to 0.40 percent in 2014. 

Non-interest income from continuing operations was $2.1 billion in 2015 compared to $1.9 billion in 2014. The increase from the prior year was driven primarily by $91 million of insurance proceeds recognized in 2015 related to the settlement of the previously disclosed and accrued 2010 class-action lawsuit. Capital markets fee income and other, as well as card and ATM fees also increased in 2015 compared to 2014. These increases more than offset a decline in service charges on deposit accounts year-over-year. See Table 5 "Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations" for further details. 

Non-interest expenses from continuing operations were $3.6 billion in 2015 compared to $3.4 billion in 2014. The increase from the prior year was driven by the following: $73 million increase in salaries and employee benefits primarily due to increases in base salaries; $56 million related to branch consolidation, property and equipment charges; $23 million of FDIC insurance assessment adjustments to prior assessments recorded in the third quarter of 2015; $43 million in early extinguishment of debt charges; and $48 million in net legal and regulatory charges related to previously disclosed matters. The 2014 period included $16 million in charges related to announced branch consolidations, $35 million in gains related to the subsequent sale of modified residential first mortgage loans transferred to held for sale in late 2013, and $100 million in legal and regulatory charges related to previously disclosed matters. See Table 6 "Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations" for further details.

A discussion of activity within discontinued operations is included at the end of "Operating Results" in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section of this report.

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•"Operating Results" section of MD&A

Capital

Capital Actions

As part of its 2015 CCAR submission, Regions' proposed capital plans included increasing its quarterly common stock dividend from $0.05 per share to $0.06 per share and the execution of up to $875 million in common share repurchases. The 2015 capital plans run from the second quarter of 2015 through the second quarter of 2016. The Federal Reserve did not object to these plans. 

Regions' Board declared the higher common stock dividend each quarter in 2015 beginning with the second quarter. Management expects to continue to evaluate the amount of the common stock dividend with the Board and in conjunction with regulatory supervisors, subject to the Company’s results of operations.

Regions’ Board also approved the share repurchase plan. The share repurchase authority granted by the Board was available at the beginning of the second quarter of 2015 and will continue through the second quarter of 2016. As of December 31, 2015, 

38

Table of Contents 

Regions had repurchased approximately 52 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $520 million under this plan. The Company continued to repurchase shares under this plan into the first quarter of 2016. These shares were immediately retired upon repurchase and therefore are not included in treasury stock.

For more information refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Stockholders’ Equity” discussion in MD&A

•Note 15 “Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” to the consolidated financial statements

Regulatory Capital

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with applicable capital adequacy standards established by the Federal Reserve. In 2013, the Federal Reserve published the final Basel III Rules establishing an updated comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations. The Basel III Rules substantially revised the regulatory capital requirements applicable to BHCs and depository institutions, including Regions and Regions Bank. The Basel III Rules were effective for Regions and Regions Bank beginning January 1, 2015 (subject to a phase-in period), and maintained the minimum guidelines for Regions to be considered well-capitalized for Tier 1 capital and Total capital at 6.0% and 10.0%, respectively. At December 31, 2015, Regions’ Basel III Tier 1 capital and Total capital ratios were estimated to be 11.65% and 13.88%, respectively. 

The Basel III Rules also officially defined “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”). When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets will be at least 4.5%, plus a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” (which is added to the 4.5% CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased in, effectively resulting in a minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% upon full implementation). Regions' Basel III CET1 ratio at December 31, 2015 on a transitional basis was 10.93%. Regions’ understanding of the framework is evolving and will likely change as analysis and discussions with regulators continue. Based on its current understanding, Regions estimates its fully phased-in CET1 ratio (non-GAAP) at December 31, 2015 to be 10.69%.

For more information refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Supervision and Regulation” discussion within Item 1. Business

•Table 2 - “GAAP to Non-GAAP reconciliation” in MD&A

•"Regulatory Requirements" section of MD&A

•Note 14 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements

Loan Portfolio and Credit

The Company grew total loans during 2015 by $3.9 billion or 5 percent compared to year-end 2014. Loan growth was led by the commercial and industrial portfolio which increased $3.1 billion in 2015 and the residential mortgage portfolio which grew $496 million in 2015. The Company had growth in all of its portfolios excluding owner-occupied commercial real estate and commercial investor real estate. The economy has been and will continue to be the primary factor which influences Regions’ loan portfolio. Customers benefitted from steady improvement in overall economic conditions in 2015, particularly low interest rates and sharp declines in retail gasoline prices. These factors generated excess cash that has been used to support spending in other areas including paying down debt and increasing savings. Labor market and housing market conditions continued to improve at a steady but somewhat slow pace over the course of 2015. Overall, the rate of economic growth in 2016 is expected to remain in line with the modest trend rate of growth that has prevailed since the end of the 2007-2009 recession, while acknowledging headwinds in the non-auto manufacturing and energy sectors.

During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company corrected the accounting for certain leases, for which Regions is the lessor. These leases had been previously classified as capital leases within total loans, but were subsequently determined to be operating leases and therefore were reclassified to other earning assets. These leases totaled approximately $834 million at December 31, 2015. The cumulative effect on pre-tax income lowered net interest income and other financing income $15 million. Management’s expectation for 2016 average loan growth, excluding the lease reclassification, is in the 3 percent to 5 percent range.

Net charge-offs totaled $238 million, or 0.30 percent of average loans, in 2015, compared to $307 million, or 0.40 percent in 2014. Net charge-offs increased within commercial and industrial and indirect-vehicles, but were lower across most other loan categories when comparing 2015 to the prior year. Other credit metrics, including non-accrual loans, past due loans, and troubled debt restructurings showed continued improvement in 2015 compared to 2014. However, criticized and classified commercial loans increased to $3.4 billion at December 31, 2015 from $2.7 billion at December 31, 2014. The increase in criticized and classified loans was primarily due to weakening in a small number of larger loans primarily within the energy portfolio. The allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2015 was 1.36 percent of total loans, net of unearned income, compared to 1.43 percent at December 31, 2014. The coverage ratio of allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans was 1.41x at December 31, 2015 compared to 1.33x at December 31, 2014.

39

Table of Contents 

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Allowance for Credit Losses” discussion within the “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” section of MD&A

•“Provision for Loan Losses” discussion within the “Operating Results” section of MD&A

•“Loans,” “Allowance for Credit Losses,” “Troubled Debt Restructurings” and “Non-performing Assets” discussions within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Credit Risk” discussion within the “Risk Management” section of MD&A

•Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 5 "Loans" to the consolidated financial statements 

•Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements

Net Interest Income and Other Financing Income, Margin and Interest Rate Risk

In 2015, the net interest margin decreased 8 basis points to 3.13 percent, largely due to a 13 basis points decline in yield on earning assets only partially offset by a 5 basis points decline on funding costs. Taxable-equivalent net interest income and other financing income increased $39 million in 2015, due primarily to a decline in both the volume of and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. This benefit was partially offset by a modest decline in interest income earned on approximately $3.8 billion of increased earning assets originated at lower interest rates. Despite the continued improvements in both cost and mix of interest-bearing liabilities, net interest income and other financing income and the resulting net interest margin continue to be pressured by a sustained low interest rate environment. 

The Company expects to increase net interest income and other financing income in the range of 2 percent to 4 percent in 2016, commensurate with average loan growth in the 3 percent to 5 percent range. The high end of the range assumes an interest rate scenario equal to the market forward interest rates as of November 6, 2015, while the low end of the range assumes interest rates remain relatively unchanged from current low levels. However, new information learned after the November 6, 2015 estimation date increases the risk to the Company that it can achieve the high end of the target range. The new information includes legislation signed into law setting the dividend paid to Regions on Federal Reserve stock at the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate. Based on that rate at December 31, 2015, the reduction in the dividend paid to Regions is estimated to be approximately $18 million annually. 

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Net Interest Income and Other Financing Income and Margin” discussion within the “Operating Results” section of MD&A

•“Interest Rate Risk” discussion within “Risk Management” section of MD&A

Liquidity

At the end of 2015, Regions Bank had over $3.9 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve and the loan-to-deposit ratio was 83 percent. Cash and cash equivalents at the parent company totaled $759 million. Regions' liquidity policy related to minimum holding company cash requirements requires the holding company to maintain cash sufficient to cover the greater of (1) 18 months of debt service and other cash needs or (2) a minimum cash balance of $500 million. 

At December 31, 2015, the Company’s borrowing capacity with the Federal Reserve was $21.5 billion based on available collateral. Borrowing availability with the Federal Home Loan Bank was $5.8 billion based on available collateral at the same date. The Company has approximately $11.7 billion of unencumbered liquid securities available for pledging. Regions also maintains a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that can be utilized by the Company to issue various debt and/or equity securities. Additionally, Regions' Board has approved a bank note program which would allow Regions Bank to issue up to $5 billion in aggregate principal amount of bank notes outstanding at any one time. As of December 31, 2015, no issues have been made under this program. 

In 2014, the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation approved a final rule implementing a minimum LCR requirement for certain large BHCs, savings and loan holding companies and depository institutions, and a less stringent LCR requirement (the "modified LCR") for other banking organizations, such as Regions, with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The final rule imposes a monthly calculation requirement. In January 2016, the minimum phased-in LCR requirement will be 90 percent, followed by 100 percent in January 2017. The regulatory agencies have released an NPR that would require public disclosures of certain LCR measures beginning in 2018. The comment period for this NPR ends in February 2016. At December 31, 2015, the Company was fully compliant with the LCR requirement. 

40

Table of Contents 

For more information, refer to the following additional sections within this Form 10-K:

•“Supervision and Regulation” discussion within Item 1. Business 

•“Short-Term Borrowings” discussion within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Long-Term Borrowings” discussion within the “Balance Sheet Analysis” section of MD&A

•“Regulatory Requirements” section of MD&A

•“Liquidity Risk” discussion within the “Risk Management” section of MD&A

•Note 12 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements

•Note 13 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements

GENERAL

The following discussion and financial information is presented to aid in understanding Regions’ financial position and results of operations. The emphasis of this discussion will be on continuing operations for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013; in addition, financial information for prior years will also be presented when appropriate. 

Effective January 1, 2015, the Company adopted new guidance related to the accounting for investments in qualified affordable housing projects. The guidance required retrospective application. All prior period amounts impacted by this guidance have been revised. Refer to Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 2 "Variable Interest Entities" to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Certain other amounts in prior year presentations have also been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation, except as otherwise noted.

Regions’ profitability, like that of many other financial institutions, is dependent on its ability to generate revenue from net interest income and other financing income as well as non-interest income sources. Net interest income and other financing income is primarily the difference between the interest income Regions receives on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense Regions pays on interest-bearing liabilities, principally deposits and borrowings. Regions’ net interest income and other financing income is impacted by the size and mix of its balance sheet components and the interest rate spread between interest earned on its assets and interest paid on its liabilities. Net interest income and other financing income also includes rental income and depreciation expense associated with operating leases for which Regions is the lessor. Non-interest income includes fees from service charges on deposit accounts, card and ATM fees, mortgage servicing and secondary marketing, investment management and trust activities, insurance activities, capital markets and other customer services which Regions provides. Results of operations are also affected by the provision for loan losses and non-interest expenses such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy, professional, legal and regulatory expenses, FDIC insurance assessments and other operating expenses, as well as income taxes.

Economic conditions, competition, new legislation and related rules impacting regulation of the financial services industry and the monetary and fiscal policies of the Federal government significantly affect most, if not all, financial institutions, including Regions. Lending and deposit activities and fee income generation are influenced by levels of business spending and investment, consumer income, consumer spending and savings, capital market activities, and competition among financial institutions, as well as customer preferences, interest rate conditions and prevailing market rates on competing products in Regions’ market areas.

Regions’ business strategy has been and continues to be focused on providing a competitive mix of products and services, delivering quality customer service and maintaining a branch distribution network with offices in convenient locations.

Recent Acquisitions

On October 23, 2015, Regions announced the acquisition of BlackArch Partners, a private, middle-market mergers and acquisitions advisory firm headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. BlackArch Partners will maintain its name, leadership and headquarters in Charlotte and will operate as a Regions' subsidiary reporting through the Corporate Bank.

On August 3, 2015, Regions announced the acquisition of The A.I. Group, Inc. The A.I. Group, Inc. has offices in greater Atlanta and Athens, Georgia and provides employee benefits consulting and insurance brokerage services focusing on mid-sized and large employers throughout the U.S.

Dispositions

On January 11, 2012, Regions entered into a stock purchase agreement to sell Morgan Keegan and related affiliates to Raymond James. The sale closed on April 2, 2012. Regions Investment Management, Inc. (formerly known as Morgan Asset Management, Inc.) and Regions Trust were not included in the sale. They are now included in the Wealth Management segment.

Results of operations for the entities sold are presented separately as discontinued operations for all periods presented on the consolidated statements of income. Other expenses related to the transaction are also included in discontinued operations. Refer to Note 3 “Discontinued Operations” and Note 24 “Commitments, Contingencies, and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for further details.

41

Table of Contents 

Business Segments

Regions provides traditional commercial, retail and mortgage banking services, as well as other financial services in the fields of asset management, wealth management, securities brokerage, insurance and other specialty financing. Regions carries out its strategies and derives its profitability from three reportable segments: Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management, with the remainder split between Discontinued Operations and Other. During the fourth quarter of 2014, Regions reorganized its internal management structure and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure. Previously, Regions’ three operating segments were Business Services, Consumer Services, and Wealth Management. Under the organizational realignment, Regions has created a Consumer Bank, which consists principally of the previous Consumer Services segment with businesses that serve retail and small business banking customers, and a Corporate Bank, which consists principally of the previous Business Services segment with businesses that serve middle-market and large commercial clients. Previously, small business banking was included within Business Services, but is now included in the Consumer Bank as its product set is more consistent with those offered in that segment. The Wealth Management segment remained unchanged during the reorganization. Segment results for all periods presented were recast in 2014 to reflect this organizational realignment.

See Note 23 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements for further information on Regions’ business segments.

42

Table of Contents 

Table 1—Financial Highlights

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

43

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

NM—Not meaningful

(1)See Table 2 for GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliations.

(2)Current year Basel III common equity Tier 1, Tier 1 capital, Total capital, and Leverage capital ratios are estimated.

(3)Regions' regulatory capital ratios for years prior to 2015 have not been revised to reflect the retrospective application of new accounting guidance related to investments in qualified affordable housing projects.

(4)Beginning in 2015, Regions' regulatory capital ratios are calculated pursuant to the phase-in provisions of the Basel III Rules. All prior period ratios were calculated pursuant to the Basel I capital rules. 

(5)High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices.

NON-GAAP MEASURES

The table below presents computations of earnings and certain other financial measures, which exclude certain significant items that are included in the financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include “adjusted fee income ratio”, “adjusted efficiency ratio”, “return on average tangible common stockholders’ equity”, average and end of period “tangible common stockholders’ equity”, and “Basel III CET1, on a fully phased-in basis” and related ratios. Regions believes that expressing earnings and certain other financial measures excluding these significant items provides a meaningful base for period-to-period comparisons, which management believes will assist investors in analyzing the operating results of the Company and predicting future performance. These non-GAAP financial measures are also used by management to assess the performance of Regions’ business because management does not consider the activities related to the adjustments to be indications of ongoing operations. Regions believes that presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures will permit investors to assess the performance of the Company on the same basis as that applied by management. Management and the Board utilize these non-GAAP financial measures as follows:

•Preparation of Regions’ operating budgets

•Monthly financial performance reporting

•Monthly close-out reporting of consolidated results (management only)

•Presentations to investors of Company performance

The adjusted efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), which is a measure of productivity, is generally calculated as non-interest expense divided by total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis. The adjusted fee income ratio (non-GAAP) is generally calculated as non-interest income divided by total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis. Management uses these ratios to monitor performance and believes these measures provide meaningful information to investors. Non-interest expense (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the adjusted efficiency ratio. Non-interest income (GAAP) is presented excluding adjustments to arrive at adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), which is the numerator for the adjusted fee income ratio. Net interest income and other financing income on a taxable-equivalent basis and non-interest income are added together to arrive at total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis. Adjustments are made to arrive at adjusted total revenue on a taxable-equivalent basis (non-GAAP), which is the denominator for the adjusted efficiency and adjusted fee income ratios. 

Tangible common stockholders’ equity ratios have become a focus of some investors in analyzing the capital position of the Company absent the effects of intangible assets and preferred stock. Traditionally, the Federal Reserve and other banking regulatory bodies have assessed a bank’s capital adequacy based on Tier 1 capital, the calculation of which is codified in federal banking regulations. Analysts and banking regulators have assessed Regions’ capital adequacy using the tangible common stockholders’ 

44

Table of Contents 

equity measure. Because tangible common stockholders’ equity is not formally defined by GAAP, this measure is considered to be a non-GAAP financial measure and other entities may calculate it differently than Regions’ disclosed calculations. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using tangible common stockholders’ equity, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors the ability to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on this same basis.

The Basel Committee's Basel III framework will strengthen international capital and liquidity regulations. When fully phased in, Basel III will increase capital requirements through higher minimum capital levels as well as through increases in risk-weights for certain exposures. Additionally, the Basel III rules place greater emphasis on common equity. The Federal Reserve released its final Basel III Rules detailing the U.S. implementation of Basel III in 2013. Regions, as a standardized approach bank, began transitioning to the Basel III framework in January 2015 subject to a phase-in period extending through January 2019. Because the Basel III implementation regulations will not be fully phased in until 2019 and, are not formally defined by GAAP, these measures are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures. Since analysts and banking regulators may assess Regions’ capital adequacy using the fully phased-in Basel III framework, Regions believes that it is useful to provide investors information enabling them to assess Regions’ capital adequacy on the same basis. 

Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by stakeholders in the evaluation of a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. In particular, a measure of earnings that excludes selected items does not represent the amount that effectively accrues directly to stockholders.

The following tables provide: 1) a reconciliation of net income (GAAP) to net income available to common shareholders (GAAP), 2) a reconciliation of non-interest expense from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest expense (non-GAAP), 3) a reconciliation of non-interest income from continuing operations (GAAP) to adjusted non-interest income (non-GAAP), 4) a computation of adjusted total revenue (non-GAAP), 5) a computation of the adjusted efficiency ratio (non-GAAP), 6) a computation of the adjusted fee income ratio (non-GAAP), 7) a reconciliation of average and ending stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to average and ending tangible common stockholders’ equity (non-GAAP) and calculations of related ratios (non-GAAP), 8) a reconciliation of stockholders’ equity (GAAP) to Basel III CET1, on a fully phased-in basis (non-GAAP), and calculation of the related ratio based on Regions’ current understanding of the Basel III requirements (non-GAAP). 

45

Table of Contents 

Table 2—GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

46

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

 _________

(1)Regions recorded $50 million and $100 million of contingent legal and regulatory accruals during the second quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2014, respectively, related to previously disclosed matters. The fourth quarter of 2014 accruals were settled in the second quarter of 2015 for $2 million less than originally estimated and a corresponding recovery was recognized.

(2) In the fourth quarter of 2013, Regions recorded a non-tax deductible charge of $58 million related to previously disclosed inquiries from government authorities concerning matters from 2009. The 2013 matters were settled in the second quarter of 2014 for $7 million less than originally estimated and a corresponding recovery was recognized. 

(3) In the fourth quarter of 2012, Regions entered into an agreement with a third party investor in Regions Asset Management Company, Inc., pursuant to which the investment was fully redeemed. This resulted in extinguishing a $203 million liability, including accrued, unpaid interest, as well as incurring early termination costs of approximately $42 million on a pre-tax basis ($38 million after tax).

(4) Insurance proceeds recognized in 2015 are related to the settlement of the previously disclosed 2010 class-action lawsuit.

(5) In the third quarter of 2013, Regions recorded a $24 million gain on sale of a non-core portion of a Wealth Management business.

(6) The 2015 amounts and the resulting ratio are estimated. Regulatory capital measures for periods prior to 2015 were not revised to reflect the retrospective application of new accounting guidance related to investments in qualified affordable housing projects. As a result, those calculations are not included in the table.

(7) Regions continues to develop systems and internal controls to precisely calculate risk-weighted assets as required by Basel III on a fully phased-in basis. The amounts included above are a reasonable approximation, based on our understanding of the requirements.

47

Table of Contents 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND RELATED POLICIES

In preparing financial information, management is required to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for the periods shown. The accounting principles followed by Regions and the methods of applying these principles conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. and general banking practices. Estimates and assumptions most significant to Regions are related primarily to the allowance for credit losses, fair value measurements, intangible assets (goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets), residential MSRs and income taxes, and are summarized in the following discussion and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses (“allowance”) consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. 

The allowance is sensitive to a variety of internal factors, such as modifications in the mix and level of loan balances outstanding, portfolio performance and assigned risk ratings, as well as external factors, such as the general health of the economy, as evidenced by changes in real estate demand and values, interest rates, unemployment rates, bankruptcy filings, fluctuations in the GDP, commodity prices and the effects of weather and natural disasters such as droughts, floods and hurricanes. Management considers these variables and all other available information when establishing the final level of the allowance. These variables and others have the ability to result in actual loan losses that differ from the originally estimated amounts. 

Management’s estimate of the allowance for the commercial and investor real estate portfolio segments could be affected by estimates of losses inherent in various product types as a result of fluctuations in the general economy, developments within a particular industry, or changes in an individual customer’s credit due to factors particular to that credit, such as competition, management or business performance. For non-accrual commercial and investor real estate loans equal to or greater than $2.5 million, the allowance for loan losses is based on note-level evaluation considering the facts and circumstances specific to each borrower. For all other commercial and investor real estate loans, the allowance for loan losses is based on statistical models using a PD and an LGD. Historical default information for similar loans is used as an input for the statistical model. A 5 percent increase in the PD for non-defaulted commercial and investor real estate accounts and a 5 percent increase in the LGD for all accounts would result in an increase to estimated inherent losses of approximately $55 million.

For residential real estate mortgages, home equity lending and other consumer-related loans, individual products are reviewed on a group basis or in loan pools (e.g., residential real estate mortgage pools). Losses can be affected by such factors as collateral value, loss severity, the economy and other uncontrollable factors. A 5 percent increase or decrease in the estimated loss rates on these loans would change estimated inherent losses by approximately $11 million.

The pro forma inherent loss analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of the allowance to key assumptions. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. A full discussion of these assumptions and other factors is included in the “Allowance for Credit Losses” section within the discussion of “Credit Risk”, found in a later section of this report, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”, and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

Fair Value Measurements

A portion of the Company’s assets and liabilities is carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recorded either in earnings or accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). These include trading account securities, securities available for sale, mortgage loans held for sale, residential MSRs and derivative assets and liabilities. From time to time, the estimation of fair value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. Fair value determination is also relevant for certain other assets such as foreclosed property and other real estate, which are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loan/property or fair value, less estimated costs to sell the property. For example, the fair value of other real estate is determined based on recent appraisals by third parties and other market information, less estimated selling costs. Adjustments to the appraised value are made if management becomes aware of changes in the fair value of specific properties or property types. The determination of fair value also impacts certain other assets that are periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value estimates, including goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets.

Fair value is generally defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) as opposed to the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability (an entry price), in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. While management uses judgment when determining the price at which willing market participants would transact when there has been a significant decrease in the volume or level of activity for the asset or liability in relation to “normal” market activity, management’s objective is to determine the point within the range of fair value estimates that is most representative of a sale to a third-party investor under current market conditions. The value to the Company if the asset or liability were held to maturity is not included in the fair value estimates.

A fair value measure should reflect the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including the assumptions about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the effect of a restriction on the sale or use 

48

Table of Contents 

of an asset and the risk of nonperformance. Fair value is measured based on a variety of inputs the Company utilizes. Fair value may be based on quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities traded in active markets (Level 1 valuations). If market prices are not available, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market are used (Level 2 valuations). Where observable market data is not available, the valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market, but observable based on Company-specific data (Level 3 valuations). These unobservable assumptions reflect the Company’s own estimates for assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation techniques typically include option pricing models, discounted cash flow models and similar techniques, but may also include the use of market prices of assets or liabilities that are not directly comparable to the subject asset or liability.

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed discussion of determining fair value, including pricing validation processes.

Intangible Assets 

Regions’ intangible assets consist primarily of the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets of acquired businesses (“goodwill”) and other identifiable intangible assets (primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships). Goodwill totaled $4.9 billion and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and is allocated to each of Regions’ reportable segments (each a reporting unit: Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management). Refer to Note 23 “Business Segment Information” to the consolidated financial statements for discussion of Regions' reorganization of its management reporting structure during the fourth quarter of 2014 and, accordingly, its segment reporting structure and goodwill reporting units. In connection with the reorganization, management reallocated goodwill to the new reporting units using a relative fair value approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 or more often if events and circumstances indicate impairment may exist (refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion). 

A test of goodwill for impairment consists of two steps. In Step One, the fair value of the reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount, including goodwill. To the extent that the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value, impairment is not indicated and no further testing is required. Conversely, if the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is below its carrying amount, Step Two must be performed. Step Two consists of determining the implied estimated fair value of goodwill, which is the net difference between the valuation adjustments of assets and liabilities excluding goodwill and the valuation adjustment to equity (from Step One) of the reporting unit. The carrying value of equity for each reporting unit is determined from an allocation based upon risk weighted assets. Adverse changes in the economic environment, declining operations of the reporting unit, or other factors could result in a decline in the estimated implied fair value of goodwill. If the estimated implied fair value of goodwill is less than the carrying amount, a loss would be recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the estimated implied fair value.

The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is determined using a blend of both income and market approaches. Within the income approach, which is the primary valuation approach, Regions utilizes the CAPM in order to derive the base discount rate. The inputs to the CAPM include the 20-year risk-free rate, 5-year beta for a select peer set specific to each reporting unit, and a market risk premium, all based on published data. To determine the estimated cost of equity for each reporting unit, a size premium is added (also based on a published source) as well as a company-specific risk premium for each reporting unit, which is an estimate determined by the Company and meant to compensate for the risk inherent in the future cash flow projections and inherent differences (such as business model and market perception of risk) between Regions and the peer set. Regions evaluates the appropriateness of the inputs to the CAPM at each test date. Company specific factors considered during recent evaluation periods include positive results of operations, stable asset quality and strong capital and liquidity positions. 

In estimating future cash flows, a balance sheet as of the test date and statements of income for the last twelve months of activity for each reporting unit is compiled. From that point, future balance sheets and statements of income are projected based on the inputs. Cash flows are based on expected future capitalization requirements due to balance sheet growth and anticipated changes in regulatory capital requirements. The baseline cash flows utilized in all models correspond to the most recent internal forecasts and/or budgets. These internal forecasts range from 1 to 3 years and are based on inputs developed in the Company’s internal strategic planning processes.

Regions uses the GCM and the GTM as its market approaches. The GCM applies a value multiplier derived from each reporting unit’s peer group to a financial metric and an implied control premium to the respective reporting units. The control premium is evaluated and compared to similar financial services transactions considering the absolute and relative potential revenue synergies and cost savings. The GTM applies a value multiplier to a financial metric of the reporting unit based on comparable observed purchase transactions in the financial services industry for the reporting unit.

Refer to Note 10 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these approaches and related assumptions. The fair values of assets and liabilities in Step Two, if applicable, are determined using an exit price concept. Refer to the discussion of fair value in Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements for discussions of the exit price concept and the determination of fair values of financial assets and liabilities.

49

Table of Contents 

 The results of the calculations for the fourth quarter of 2015 indicated that the estimated fair values of the Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank and Wealth Management reporting units were $9.1 billion, $7.9 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively, which were greater than their carrying amounts of $8.1 billion, $6.8 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. Therefore, the goodwill of each reporting unit was considered not impaired as of the testing date, and Step Two of the goodwill impairment test was not required. Refer to Note 10 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for the key assumptions used in estimating the fair value of each reporting unit as of fourth quarter 2015 and fourth quarter 2014.

Specific factors as of the date of filing the financial statements that could negatively impact the assumptions used in assessing goodwill for impairment include: a protracted decline in the Company’s market capitalization; disparities in the level of fair value changes in net assets (especially loans) compared to equity; increases in book values of equity of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in fair value of equity; adverse business trends resulting from litigation and/or regulatory actions; higher loan losses; lengthened forecasts of high unemployment levels; future increased minimum regulatory capital requirements above current thresholds (refer to Note 14 “Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions” to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of current minimum regulatory requirements); future federal rules and regulations (e.g., such as those resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act); and/or a protraction in the current low level of interest rates significantly beyond 2016.

For sensitivity analysis, a discount rate of 12.0 percent for the Corporate Bank and Consumer Bank reporting units and 13.0 percent for the Wealth Management reporting unit would result in estimated fair values of equity of $8.3 billion, $7.2 billion, and $1.9 billion, respectively. All three reporting units' estimated fair value would continue to exceed the book value by approximately $167 million, $431 million, and $679 million, respectively, and would not require Step Two procedures. This assumes all other assumptions would remain unchanged in the fourth quarter of 2015 calculation.

If the prior year inputs for GCM and GTM had remained the same for the fourth quarter of 2015, the estimated fair value would continue to exceed book value for the Corporate Bank, Consumer Bank, and Wealth Management reporting units by approximately $667 million, $730 million, and $880 million, respectively. This assumes all other assumptions would remain unchanged in the fourth quarter of 2015 calculation.

Sensitivity calculations are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future performance. Changes in implied fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the implied fair value of goodwill is calculated without changing any other assumption, while in reality changes in one factor may result in changes in another which may either magnify or counteract the effect of the change.

Other material identifiable intangible assets, primarily core deposit intangibles and purchased credit card relationships, are reviewed at least annually (usually in the fourth quarter) for events or circumstances which could impact the recoverability of the intangible asset. These events could include loss of core deposits, significant losses of credit card accounts and/or balances, increased competition or adverse changes in the economy. To the extent an other identifiable intangible asset is deemed unrecoverable, an impairment loss would be recorded to reduce the carrying amount. These events or circumstances, if they occur, could be material to Regions’ operating results for any particular reporting period but the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated.

Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights

Regions has elected to measure and report its residential MSRs using the fair value method. Although sales of residential MSRs do occur, residential MSRs do not trade in an active market with readily observable market prices and the exact terms and conditions of sales may not be readily available, and are therefore Level 3 valuations in the fair value hierarchy previously discussed in the “Fair Value Measurements” section. Specific characteristics of the underlying loans greatly impact the estimated value of the related residential MSRs. As a result, Regions stratifies its residential mortgage servicing portfolio on the basis of certain risk characteristics, including loan type and contractual note rate, and values its residential MSRs using discounted cash flow modeling techniques. These techniques require management to make estimates regarding future net servicing cash flows, taking into consideration historical and forecasted residential mortgage loan prepayment rates, discount rates, escrow balances and servicing costs. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds or other factors impact the fair value of residential MSRs which impacts earnings. The carrying value of residential MSRs was $252 million at December 31, 2015. Based on a hypothetical sensitivity analysis, Regions estimates that a reduction in primary mortgage market rates of 25 basis points and 50 basis points would reduce the December 31, 2015 fair value of residential MSRs by approximately 5 percent ($13 million) and 11 percent ($27 million), respectively. Conversely, 25 basis point and 50 basis point increases in these rates would increase the December 31, 2015 fair value of residential MSRs by approximately 5 percent ($12 million) and 9 percent ($23 million), respectively. Regions also estimates that an increase in servicing costs of approximately $10 per loan, or 17 percent, would result in a decline in the value of the residential MSRs by approximately $8 million.

The pro forma fair value analysis presented above demonstrates the sensitivity of fair values to hypothetical changes in primary mortgage rates. This sensitivity analysis does not reflect an expected outcome. Refer to the “Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights” discussion in the “Balance Sheet” analysis section found later in this report.

50

Table of Contents 

Income Taxes

Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets and reflect management’s estimate of income taxes to be paid or received.

Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or received and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. The net balance is reported as a component of either other assets or other liabilities, as appropriate, in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company determines the realization of the deferred tax asset based upon an evaluation of the four possible sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In projecting future taxable income, the Company utilizes forecasted pre-tax earnings, adjusts for the estimated book-tax differences and incorporates assumptions, including the amounts of income allocable to taxing jurisdictions. These assumptions require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates the Company uses to manage the underlying businesses. The realization of the deferred tax assets could be reduced in the future if these estimates are significantly different than forecasted. For a detailed discussion of realization of deferred tax assets, refer to the “Income Taxes” section found later in this report.

The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S. and multiple state and local jurisdictions. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in a range of outcomes. Thus, the Company is required to exercise judgment regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. The Company will evaluate and recognize tax liabilities related to any tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities.

The Company’s estimate of accrued income taxes, deferred income taxes and income tax expense can also change in any period as a result of new legislative or judicial guidance impacting tax positions, as well as changes in income tax rates. Any changes, if they occur, can be significant to the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

OPERATING RESULTS

NET INTEREST INCOME AND OTHER FINANCING INCOME AND MARGIN 

Net interest income and other financing income is Regions’ principal source of income and is one of the most important elements of Regions’ ability to meet its overall performance goals. Net interest income and other financing income (taxable-equivalent basis) increased approximately $39 million, or 1 percent in 2015 from 2014, driven primarily by loan growth, balance sheet management strategies, and modest reductions in liability costs. The net interest margin decreased to 3.13 percent in 2015 from 3.21 percent in 2014, due to a decrease in yields on earning assets exceeding the decline in total funding costs during 2015, coupled with increases in high quality liquid asset balances.

Comparing 2015 to 2014, average earning asset yields were lower, decreasing 13 basis points. However, interest-bearing liability rates were also lower, declining by 6 basis points. As a result, the net interest rate spread decreased 7 basis points to 2.99 percent in 2015 compared to 3.06 percent in 2014.

An accommodative monetary policy stance pursued by the Federal Reserve for the majority of 2015, as well as the modest pace of economic recovery resulted in continued low levels of both long and short-term interest rates in 2015, both of which have influence on net interest margin and net interest income and other financing income. Long-term interest rates are generally represented by the yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note. The 10-year U.S. Treasury note was 2.12 percent at the beginning of 2015 and ended the year at 2.27 percent. The average yield on the benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury note decreased to 2.14 percent in 2015 compared to 2.54 percent in 2014. Earning asset yields on fixed-rate loans and securities remained under pressure by the continuation of historically low long-term interest rates. One way in which long-term interest rates affect asset yields is through their influence on prepayment activity. Low levels of long-term interest rates generate higher levels of prepayments, particularly within fixed-rate loan and securities portfolios, which has resulted in the replacement of these assets at lower rates of interest. Additionally, the Federal Reserve's Large-Scale Asset Purchase program along with other government programs such as HARP have influenced levels of interest rates and prepayments among loans and securities in a similar fashion. As a result of lower interest rates, lower reinvestment yields and prepayments, the taxable investment securities portfolio, which contains significant residential fixed-rate exposure, decreased in yield to 2.34 percent in 2015 from 2.47 percent in 2014. The Company's loan pricing is also influenced by short-term interest rates such as the 30-day LIBOR, which on average was 20 basis points in 2015, compared to 16 basis points in 2014, and therefore had minimal impact on changes in the net interest margin. 

The negative impact of low, long-term interest rates on earning asset yields was somewhat offset by improvements in liability costs in 2015. The rates that most directly influence deposits costs (such as the Federal Reserve’s Rate of Interest on Excess Reserves and the Prime rate) remained low throughout 2015, even with the 0.25 percent increase in rates during the fourth quarter. With this, deposit costs remained at the historical low level of 11 basis points for both 2015 and 2014. The improvement in funding costs was primarily due to changes in long-term borrowings. Average long-term borrowings increased to $5.0 billion in 2015 as compared to $4.1 billion in 2014, but the cost on these borrowings decreased 184 basis points. See the "Long-Term Borrowings" section in Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 13 "Long-Term Borrowings" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

51

Table of Contents 

See also the "Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk" section in Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information.

Management expects to increase net interest income and other financing income in the range of 2 percent to 4 percent in 2016, commensurate with average loan growth in the 3 percent to 5 percent range. The high end of the range assumes an interest rate scenario equal to the market forward interest rates as of November 6, 2015, while the low end of the range assumes interest rates remaining relatively unchanged from current low levels. However, new information learned after the November 6, 2015 estimation date increases the risk to the Company that it can achieve the high end of the target range. The new information includes legislation signed into law setting the dividend paid to Regions on Federal Reserve stock at the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate. Based on that rate at December 31, 2015, the reduction in the dividend paid to Regions is estimated to be approximately $18 million annually. 

52

Table of Contents 

Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations” presents a detail of net interest income and other financing income (on a taxable-equivalent basis), the net interest margin, and the net interest spread.

Table 3—Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

53

Table of Contents 

_______ 

(1)Investments in FRB and FHLB stock were reclassified from securities available for sale to other earning assets during the fourth quarter of 2015. All periods presented have been revised to reflect this presentation. 

(2)During the fourth quarter of 2015, Regions corrected the accounting for approximately $214 million of year-to-date average balances of leases, for which Regions is the lessor. These leases had been previously classified as capital leases but were subsequently determined to be operating leases. 

(3)Loans, net of unearned income include non-accrual loans for all periods presented.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(5)In the first quarter of 2015, the Company adopted new guidance related to the accounting for investments in qualified affordable housing projects. The guidance required retrospective application. All prior period amounts impacted by this guidance have been revised.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

(7)The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income and other financing income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.

Table 4—Volume and Yield/Rate Variances from Continuing Operations

Table 4 “Volume and Yield/Rate Variances from Continuing Operations” provides additional information with which to analyze the changes in net interest income and other financing income.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

______ 

Notes:

•The change in interest not due solely to volume or yield/rate has been allocated to the volume column and yield/rate column in proportion to the relationship of the absolute dollar amounts of the change in each.

•The computation of taxable-equivalent net interest income and other financing income is based on the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit.

•Investments in FRB and FHLB stock were reclassified from securities available for sale to other earning assets during the fourth quarter of 2015. Current and prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to current period classification.

•In the first quarter of 2015, the Company adopted new guidance related to the accounting for investments in qualified affordable housing projects. The guidance required retrospective application. All prior period amounts impacted by this guidance have been revised.

54

Table of Contents 

The mix of earning assets can also affect the interest rate spread. Regions’ primary types of earning assets are loans and investment securities. Certain types of earning assets have historically generated larger spreads; for example, loans typically generate larger spreads than other assets, such as securities, Federal funds sold or securities purchased under agreements to resell. The spread on loans remained depressed in 2015 primarily due to the low interest rate environment. Average earning assets in 2015 totaled $107.9 billion, an increase of $3.8 billion as compared to the prior year. 

Average loans as a percentage of average earning assets were 74 percent in 2015 and 73 percent in 2014. The remaining categories of earning assets are shown in Table 3 “Consolidated Average Daily Balances and Yield/Rate Analysis for Continuing Operations”. The proportion of average earning assets to average total assets, which was 88 percent in both 2015 and 2014, measures the effectiveness of management’s efforts to invest available funds into the most profitable earning vehicles. Funding for Regions’ earning assets comes from interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing sources. Another significant factor affecting the net interest margin is the percentage of earning assets funded by interest-bearing liabilities. The percentage of average earning assets funded by average interest-bearing liabilities was 64 percent in 2015 and 66 percent in 2014.

PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSES

The provision for loan losses is used to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level that in management’s judgment is appropriate to absorb probable losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date. During 2015, the provision for loan losses totaled $241 million and net charge-offs were $238 million. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $69 million and net charge-offs of $307 million in 2014. The increase in the provision for loan losses reflects loan growth, increased reserves for energy related loans and the results of the Shared National Credit industry-wide examination.

For further discussion and analysis of the total allowance for credit losses, see the "Allowance for Credit Losses" and “Risk Management” sections found later in this report. See also Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

NON-INTEREST INCOME

Table 5—Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Service Charges on Deposit Accounts

Service charges on deposit accounts include non-sufficient fund fees and other service charges. The decrease during 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to a $28 million reduction of fees resulting from a product discontinuation that concluded in the fourth quarter of 2014. Service charges were also impacted by posting order process changes for customer deposit accounts that were tested in select markets during the year and fully implemented in early November 2015, reducing service charges by approximately $10 million. The ongoing impact of this change is expected to be at the lower end of the previously disclosed range of $10 million to $15 million per quarter.

55

Table of Contents 

Card and ATM Fees

Card and ATM fees include the combined amounts of credit card/bank card income and debit card and ATM related revenue. The increase in 2015 compared to 2014 was a result of increased checking accounts, as well as increased transactions driven in part by the continued migration of transactions from cash and checks to cards. Additionally, an increase in active credit cards generated greater purchase activity resulting in higher interchange income.

Investment Management and Trust Fee Income

Investment management and trust fee income represents income from asset management services provided to individuals, businesses and institutions. The increase in investment management and trust fees during 2015 compared to 2014 was driven primarily by stronger organic growth.

Mortgage Income

Mortgage income is generated through the origination and servicing of residential mortgage loans for long-term investors and sales of residential mortgage loans in the secondary market. The increase in mortgage income during 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily driven by higher mortgage production and related secondary marketing gains, which was partially offset by a modest decrease in loan servicing income.

Insurance Commissions and Fees

Regions sells property and casualty, life and health, mortgage, and other specialty insurance and credit related products to businesses and individuals. The increase in 2015 compared to 2014 was partially due to the third quarter of 2015 acquisition of an insurance team from Atlanta, Georgia that specializes in group employee benefits.

Capital Markets Fee Income and Other 

Capital markets fee income and other primarily relates to capital raising activities that includes securities underwriting and placement, loan syndication and placement, as well as foreign exchange, derivatives and advisory services. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015, this category also includes revenue derived from the purchase of BlackArch Partners, a private, middle-market mergers and acquisitions advisory firm headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina. The increase in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to increased loan syndication fees, securities underwriting and placement fees, and mergers and acquisitions advisory fees which the Company began recognizing in 2015.

Insurance Proceeds

Insurance proceeds recognized in 2015 were related to the settlement of the previously disclosed and accrued 2010 class-action lawsuit.

Commercial Credit Fee Income

Commercial credit fee income includes letters of credit fees and unused commercial commitment fees. The increase in 2015 compared to 2014 included the reclassification of unused commitment fees from interest income starting in the second quarter of 2015. Prior period amounts remain in interest income.

Bank-owned Life Insurance

Bank-owned life insurance declined in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to lower crediting rates.

Investment Services Fee Income

Investment services fee income represents income earned through investment advisory services. Primary revenue streams include sales of annuity and brokerage products. The increase in investment services fee income during 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily driven by an increase in sales resulting from an increased number of licensed agents and financial consultants.

Securities Gains, Net

Net securities gains result from the Company's asset/liability management process. See Note 4 "Securities" to the consolidated financial statements for more information.

Other Miscellaneous Income

Other miscellaneous income includes fees from safe deposit boxes, check fees and income from assets held for employee benefit purposes. The decrease in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to lower commercial leasing residual gains and decreased asset values held for employee benefit purposes.

56

Table of Contents 

NON-INTEREST EXPENSE

Table 6—Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_____

NM - Not Meaningful

(1)Prior to December 31, 2015, this was referred to as "deposit administrative fee".

Salaries and Employee Benefits

Salaries and employee benefits are comprised of salaries, incentive compensation, long-term incentives, payroll taxes, and other employee benefits such as 401(k), pension, and medical, life and disability insurance, as well as, expenses from liabilities held for employee benefit purposes. Salaries and employee benefits increased during 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to increases in base salaries. Also contributing to the increase was higher pension, health insurance and severance expenses, as well as higher incentives concurrent with increased revenue. Headcount increased to 23,916 at December 31, 2015 from 23,723 at December 31, 2014.

On December 31, 2015, Regions changed the basis for determining the assumption used to estimate the service and interest components of net periodic pension costs from a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the benefit obligation at the beginning of the period, to a disaggregated approach in the estimation of these components by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. Additionally, Regions separated the Regions Financial Corporation Retirement Plan into two plans, effective January 1, 2016. A new plan was created primarily for participants who were actively employed at January 1, 2016, and all other participants were retained in the existing plan. Including the impact of these changes, Regions expects total net periodic pension costs to decrease by approximately $20 million to $25 million in 2016 compared to 2015. Refer to Note 18 "Employee Benefit Plans" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Net Occupancy Expense

Net occupancy expense includes rent, depreciation and amortization, utilities, maintenance, insurance, taxes, and other expenses of premises occupied by Regions and its affiliates. Net occupancy expense was down modestly in 2015 compared to 2014.

Furniture and Equipment Expense

Furniture and equipment expense includes depreciation, maintenance and repairs, rent, taxes and other expenses of equipment utilized by Regions and its affiliates. Furniture and equipment expense increased during 2015 compared to 2014 primarily driven by increased depreciation on new technology-related assets placed in service as well as higher maintenance and repairs during 2015.

Outside Services

Outside services consists of expenses related to routine services provided by third parties, such as contract labor, servicing costs, data processing, loan pricing and research, data license purchases, data subscriptions, and check printing. Outside services increased during 2015 when compared to 2014 due to increases in certain fees paid in connection with revenue growth as well as increased servicing costs related to continued purchases of indirect loans from third parties.

57

Table of Contents 

Professional, Legal and Regulatory Expenses

Professional, legal and regulatory expenses consist of amounts related to legal, consulting, other professional fees and regulatory charges. Professional, legal and regulatory expenses decreased during 2015 compared to 2014. Regions recorded $50 million and $100 million of contingent legal and regulatory accruals during the second quarter of 2015 and the fourth quarter of 2014, respectively, related to previously disclosed matters. The fourth quarter of 2014 accruals were settled in the second quarter of 2015 for $2 million less than originally estimated and a corresponding recovery was recognized. Excluding these items, professional, legal and regulatory expenses decreased $46 million during 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to lower consulting fees and lower legal fees resulting from a declining case load as well as legal fee recoveries.

FDIC Insurance Assessments

FDIC insurance assessments (referred to as "deposit administrative fees" prior to December 31, 2015) increased during 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily due to a $23 million adjustment to prior assessments recorded in the third quarter of 2015 that exceeded the benefit of refunds of previously incurred fees recognized in prior quarters. The expected run rate for this expense is in the $22 million to $24 million range per quarter, excluding the impact of the recently proposed surcharge by the FDIC. The surcharge, if implemented as proposed, would increase the FDIC insurance assessments by approximately $5 million per quarter.

Branch Consolidation, Property and Equipment Charges

Branch consolidation, property and equipment charges include valuation adjustments related to owned branches when the decision to close them is made. Accelerated depreciation and lease write-off charges are recorded for leased branches through and at the actual branch close date. In 2015, additional charges resulted from the transfer of land, previously held for future branch expansion, to held for sale based on changes in management's intent. As part of the Company's ongoing retail network strategy, management identified certain parcels of land that are no longer intended to be developed. 

Credit/Checkcard Expenses

Credit/Checkcard expenses increased in 2015 when compared to 2014 primarily due to increases in transactions and fraud losses.

Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt

During the first quarter of 2015, Regions redeemed approximately $250 million of its 7.50% subordinated notes, incurring a related early extinguishment charge.

Gain on Sale of TDRs Held for Sale, Net

 During the fourth quarter of 2013, Regions transferred approximately $535 million of certain primarily accruing residential first mortgage loans classified as TDRs to loans held for sale. During the first quarter of 2014, substantially all of these loans were sold resulting in a $35 million pre-tax net gain.

Other Miscellaneous Expenses

Other miscellaneous expenses include expenses related to communications, postage, supplies, certain credit-related costs, foreclosed property expenses and mortgage repurchase costs. Other miscellaneous expenses increased during 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to decreased gains on sales of non-performing loans held for sale.

INCOME TAXES

The Company’s income tax expense from continuing operations was $455 million and $548 million for 2015 and 2014, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 29.7 percent and 32.6 percent, respectively. Several items, although not individually significant, had an overall favorable impact on the effective tax rate in 2015 including: audit settlements reached with the IRS and certain state taxing authorities, a tax benefit related to state deferred taxes and lower pre-tax income. 

The Company’s effective tax rate is affected by recurring items such tax benefits related to affordable housing investments, bank-owned life insurance and tax-exempt income. Bank-owned life insurance and tax-exempt income are expected to be generally consistent in the near term. The effective tax rate is also affected by items that may occur in any given period but are not consistent from period to period, such as the termination of certain leveraged leases. Accordingly, future period effective tax rates may not be comparable to the current period.

In the first quarter of 2015, the Company adopted new accounting guidance that allows companies with qualified affordable housing investments to apply a proportional amortization method that recognizes the cost of the investment as a component of income tax expense. This election resulted in an increase to income tax expense, and the resulting effective tax rate. Prior periods have been restated for this change. Refer to Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

58

Table of Contents 

 At December 31, 2015, the Company reported a net deferred tax asset of $254 million, compared to $368 million at December 31, 2014. The decrease in the net deferred tax asset was primarily due to a decrease related to employee benefits and accrued expenses, partially offset by an increase in unrealized losses related to securities available for sale.

The Company continually assesses the realizability of its deferred tax assets based on an evaluative process that considers all available positive and negative evidence. As part of this evaluative process, the Company considers the following sources of taxable income: 1) the future reversals of taxable temporary differences; 2) future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards; 3) taxable income in prior carryback years; and 4) tax-planning strategies. In making a conclusion, the Company has evaluated all available positive and negative evidence impacting these sources of taxable income. The primary sources of evidence impacting the Company's judgment regarding the realization of its deferred tax assets are summarized below.

•History of earnings - In 2015, the Company has continued its positive earnings trend with positive earnings from 2012 through 2015. All federal net operating losses and federal tax credit carryforwards with expiration dates have been utilized. There is no history of significant tax carryforwards expiring unused.

•Reversals of taxable temporary differences - The Company anticipates that future reversals of taxable temporary differences, including the accretion of taxable temporary differences related to leveraged leases acquired in a prior business combination, can absorb up to approximately $696 million of deferred tax assets.

•Creation of future taxable income - The Company has projected future taxable income that will be sufficient to absorb the remaining deferred tax assets after the reversal of future taxable temporary differences.

•Ability to implement tax-planning strategies - The Company has the ability to implement tax planning strategies such as asset sales to maximize the realization of deferred tax assets.

Based on this evaluative process, the Company has established a valuation allowance in the amount of $29 million at December 31, 2015 and $32 million at December 31, 2014 because the Company believes that a portion of the state net operating loss carryforwards and state tax credit carryforwards will not be utilized. 

See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 20 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about income taxes.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

Morgan Keegan was sold on April 2, 2012. Regions' results from discontinued operations are presented in Note 3 "Discontinued Operations" to the consolidated financial statements. During 2015, the loss from discontinued operations was primarily the result of legal fees incurred during the year. During 2014, income from discontinued operations reflected further reductions in the indemnification liability based on updated assumptions, as well as insurance proceeds recognized. 

BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS

The following sections provide expanded discussion of significant changes in certain line items in asset, liability, and equity categories. 

Cash and Cash Equivalents

At December 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents totaled $5.3 billion as compared to $4.0 billion at December 31, 2014. The year-over-year increase was driven by an increase in interest-bearing deposits in other banks as a result of normal day-to-day operating variations, as well as the positioning of the Company's balance sheet related to the implementation of the liquidity coverage ratio. Refer to the "Regulatory Requirements" discussion later in this report for more information.

Securities

Regions utilizes the securities portfolio to manage liquidity, interest rate risk, and regulatory capital, as well as to take advantage of market conditions to generate a favorable return on investments without undue risk. 

The “Market Risk-Interest Rate Risk” and "Liquidity Risk" sections, found later in this report, further explain Regions’ interest rate and liquidity risk management practices. The weighted-average yield earned on securities, less equities, was 2.49 percent in 2015 and 2.58 percent in 2014. Table 7 “Securities” details the carrying values of securities, including both available for sale and held to maturity.

59

Table of Contents 

Table 7—Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Regions maintains a highly rated securities portfolio consisting primarily of agency mortgage-backed securities. The securities at December 31, 2015 increased $428 million from year-end 2014 primarily due to additional portfolio purchases that were offset by changes in the fair value of the available for sale portfolio.

Maturity Analysis—The average life of the securities portfolio (excluding equities) at December 31, 2015 was estimated to be 5.4 years, with a duration of approximately 3.8 years. These metrics compare with an estimated average life of 5.0 years, with a duration of approximately 3.4 years for the portfolio at December 31, 2014. Table 8 “Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities” provides additional details.

Table 8—Relative Contractual Maturities and Weighted-Average Yields for Securities

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)Equity stock of other corporations held by Regions are not included in the table.

(2)The weighted-average yields are calculated on the basis of the yield to maturity based on the book value of each security. Weighted-average yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a taxable-equivalent basis using a tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes net of the related federal tax benefit. Average tax-exempt securities were maintained at such a small balance in 2015 that the taxable-equivalent adjustments for the calculation of yields amounted to zero for the year ended December 31, 2015. Yields on tax-exempt obligations have not been adjusted for the non-deductible portion of interest expense used to finance the purchase of tax-exempt obligations.

Portfolio Quality—Regions’ investment policy emphasizes credit quality and liquidity. Securities rated in the highest category by nationally recognized rating agencies and securities backed by the U.S. Government and government sponsored agencies, both on a direct and indirect basis, represented approximately 93 percent of the investment portfolio at December 31, 2015. All other securities rated below AAA, not backed by the U.S. Government or government sponsored agencies, or which are not rated represented approximately 7 percent of total securities at year-end 2015.

60

Table of Contents 

Loans Held For Sale

At December 31, 2015, loans held for sale totaled $448 million, consisting of $354 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $56 million of commercial mortgage loans and $38 million of non-performing loans. At December 31, 2014, loans held for sale totaled $541 million, consisting of $442 million of residential real estate mortgage loans, $61 million of commercial mortgage loans, and $38 million of non-performing loans. The level of residential real estate mortgage loans held for sale that are part of the Company's mortgage originations to be sold in the secondary market fluctuates depending on the timing of the origination and sale to third parties. 

Loans

GENERAL

Average loans, net of unearned income, represented 74 percent of average interest-earning assets for the year ended December 31, 2015, compared to 73 percent for the year ended December 31, 2014. Lending at Regions is generally organized along three portfolio segments: commercial loans (including commercial and industrial, and owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans), investor real estate loans (commercial real estate mortgage and construction loans) and consumer loans (residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect-vehicles, indirect-other consumer, consumer credit card and other consumer loans).

Table 9 illustrates a year-over-year comparison of loans, net of unearned income, by portfolio segment and class and Table 10 provides information on selected loan maturities.

Table 9—Loan Portfolio 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

61

Table of Contents 

Table 10—Selected Loan Maturities 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1) Excludes residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect-vehicles, indirect-other consumer, consumer credit card and other consumer loans.

(2) Excludes $144 million of small business credit card accounts.

Loans, net of unearned income, totaled $81.2 billion at December 31, 2015, an increase of $3.9 billion from year-end 2014 levels. Regions manages loan growth with a focus on risk management and risk-adjusted return on capital. Loan balances increased year over year in most of the portfolio classes with the largest increase in commercial and industrial. The increase was partially offset by continued decreases in commercial real estate mortgage owner-occupied and commercial investor real estate mortgage. 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company corrected the accounting for certain leases, for which Regions is the lessor. These leases had been previously classified as capital leases within total loans, but were subsequently determined to be operating leases and therefore were reclassified to other earning assets. These leases totaled approximately $834 million at December 31, 2015. The cumulative effect on pre-tax income lowered net interest income and other financing income $15 million. Management’s expectation for 2016 average loan growth, excluding the lease reclassification, is in the 3 percent to 5 percent range.

PORTFOLIO CHARACTERISTICS

The following sections describe the composition of the portfolio segments and classes disclosed in Table 9, explain changes in balances from the 2014 year-end, and highlight the related risk characteristics. Regions believes that its loan portfolio is well diversified by product, client, and geography throughout its footprint. However, the loan portfolio may be exposed to certain concentrations of credit risk which exist in relation to individual borrowers or groups of borrowers, certain types of collateral, certain types of industries, certain loan products, or certain regions of the country. See Note 5 “Loans” and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion.

Commercial

The commercial portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases and other expansion projects. Commercial and industrial loans increased $3.1 billion or 9 percent since year-end 2014 driven primarily by Regions’ market-based corporate and commercial bankers serving middle market clients and the Company's asset based lending and corporate real estate groups. The operating lease reclassification discussed above was transferred from the commercial and industrial loan portfolio. Commercial also includes owner-occupied commercial real estate mortgage loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long-term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. These loans declined $725 million or 9 percent from year-end 2014 as a result of continued customer deleveraging. Owner-occupied construction loans are made to commercial businesses for the development of land or construction of a building where the repayment is derived from revenues generated from the business of the borrower. During 2015, total commercial loan balances increased approximately $2.4 billion, or 6 percent. 

62

Table of Contents 

The commercial portfolio segment has generated the majority of the Company's loan growth in 2015, particularly commercial and industrial loans. The commercial portfolio segment comprised approximately 54 percent of total loans at both December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. 

The following table provides detail of Regions' commercial lending balances in selected industries as of December 31:

Table 11—Selected Industry Balances 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

(1)As customers' businesses evolve (e.g. up or down the vertical manufacturing chain), Regions may need to change the assigned business industry code used to define the customer relationship. When these changes occur, Regions does not recast the customer history for prior periods into the new classification because the business industry code used in the prior period was deemed appropriate. As a result, year over year changes may be impacted.

(2)Regions' definition of indirect energy-related lending includes certain balances within each of these selected industry categories. As of December 31, 2015, total indirect energy-related lending was approximately $519 million, with approximately $497 million included in commercial loans and $22 million in investor real estate loans.

In 2015, Regions experienced loan growth in most industry classifications compared to a year ago. The most significant growth occurred in the real estate industry with year over year growth of $894 million or 16 percent. This industry represented 14.7 percent and 13.4 percent of total commercial lending at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increases in real estate and government and public sector represented 57 percent of the overall commercial lending growth in 2015. This was partially offset by decreases in the energy, wholesale goods, healthcare, as well as, agriculture sectors.

Regions continues to monitor the low price of oil for both direct and indirect impacts on its energy lending portfolio. As shown in Table 11, Regions’ energy industry loan balances at December 31, 2015 were approximately $2.5 billion, consisting of loans directly related to energy, such as oilfield services, exploration and production, and pipeline transportation of gas and crude oil. Other types of lending are tangentially impacted by the energy portfolio, such as petroleum wholesalers, oil and gas equipment manufacturing, air transportation, and petroleum bulk stations and terminals. These indirect energy exposures were approximately $519 million at December 31, 2015. The entire energy-related portfolio, combining direct and indirect exposures, was approximately $3.1 billion at December 31, 2015.

Regions' energy-related portfolio is geographically concentrated primarily in Texas and, to a lesser extent, in south Louisiana. Regions employs a variety of risk management strategies, including the use of concentration limits and continuous monitoring, as well as utilizing underwriting with borrowing base structures tied to energy commodity reserve bases or other tangible assets. 

63

Table of Contents 

Additionally, heightened credit requirements have been adopted for select segments of the portfolio. Regions also employs experienced lending and underwriting teams including petroleum engineers, all with extensive energy sector experience through multiple economic cycles. If the current low level of oil prices continues, this energy-related portfolio may be subject to additional pressure on credit quality metrics including past due, criticized, and non-performing loans, as well as net charge-offs. A relatively small number of customers comprises Regions' energy-related portfolio, which provides the Company granular insight into the financial health of those borrowers. Through its ongoing portfolio credit quality assessment, Regions has and will continue to assess the impact to the loan loss allowance and make adjustments as appropriate. As of December 31, 2015, Regions' allowance for loan losses includes a quantitative and qualitative reserve specifically related to energy exposures of approximately 6 percent of its direct energy portfolio. See the "Allowance For Credit Losses" discussion within Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Investor Real Estate

Loans for real estate development are repaid through cash flow related to the operation, sale or refinance of the property. This portfolio segment includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. A portion of Regions’ investor real estate portfolio segment is comprised of loans secured by residential product types (land, single-family and condominium loans) within Regions’ markets. Additionally, this category includes loans made to finance income-producing properties such as apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, and retail shopping centers. Total investor real estate loans increased $134 million from 2014 year-end balances.

Due to the nature of the cash flows typically used to repay investor real estate loans, these loans are particularly vulnerable to weak economic conditions. As a result, this loan type has a higher risk of non-collection than other loans. 

Residential First Mortgage

Residential first mortgage loans represent loans to consumers to finance a residence. These loans are typically financed over a 15 to 30 year term and, in most cases, are extended to borrowers to finance their primary residence. These loans experienced a $496 million or 4 percent increase from year-end 2014, as prepayments have slowed. Approximately $2.9 billion in new loan originations were retained on the balance sheet during 2015.

Home Equity

Home equity lending includes both home equity loans and lines of credit. This type of lending, which is secured by a first or second mortgage on the borrower's residence, allows customers to borrow against the equity in their homes. The home equity portfolio totaled $11.0 billion at December 31, 2015 as compared to $10.9 billion at December 31, 2014. Substantially all of this portfolio was originated through Regions’ branch network. 

The following table presents information regarding the future principal payment reset dates for the Company's home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2015. The balances presented are based on maturity date for lines with a balloon payment and draw period expiration date for lines that convert to a repayment period.

Table 12—Home Equity Lines of Credit - Future Principal Payment Resets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Of the $11.0 billion home equity portfolio at December 31, 2015, approximately $7.9 billion were home equity lines of credit and $3.1 billion were closed-end home equity loans (primarily originated as amortizing loans). Beginning in May 2009, new home equity lines of credit have a 10-year draw period and a 10-year repayment period. Previously, the home equity lines of credit had a 20-year term with a balloon payment upon maturity or a 5-year draw period with a balloon payment upon maturity. The term “balloon payment” means there are no principal payments required until the balloon payment is due for interest-only lines of credit. As of December 31, 2015, none of Regions' home equity lines of credit have converted to mandatory amortization under the 

64

Table of Contents 

contractual terms. As presented in the table above, the majority of home equity lines of credit will either mature with a balloon payment or convert to amortizing status after fiscal year 2020.

Of the $7.9 billion of home equity lines of credit as of December 31, 2015, approximately 90 percent require monthly interest-only payments while the remaining approximately 10 percent require a payment equal to 1.5 percent of the outstanding balance, which would include some principal repayment. As of December 31, 2015, approximately 30 percent of borrowers were only paying the minimum amount due on the home equity line. In addition, approximately 62 percent of the home equity lines of credit balances have the option to amortize either all or a portion of their balance. As of December 31, 2015, approximately $265 million of the home equity line of credit balances have elected this option.

Regions is unable to track payment status on first liens held by another institution, including payment status related to loan modifications. When Regions’ second lien position becomes delinquent, an attempt is made to contact the first lien holder and inquire as to the payment status of the first lien. However, Regions does not continuously monitor the payment status of the first lien position. Short sale offers and settlement agreements are often received by the home equity junior lien holders well before the loan balance reaches the delinquency threshold for charge-off consideration, potentially resulting in a full balance payoff/charge-off. Regions is presently monitoring the status of all first lien position loans that the Company owns or services and has a second lien, and is taking appropriate action when delinquent. Regions services the first lien on approximately 25 percent of the entire second lien home equity portfolio as of December 31, 2015. 

Other Consumer Credit Quality Data

The Company calculates an estimate of the current value of property secured as collateral for both residential first mortgage and home equity lending products (“current LTV”). The estimate is based on home price indices compiled by a third party. The third party data indicates trends for MSAs. Regions uses the third party valuation trends from the MSAs in the Company's footprint in its estimate. The trend data is applied to the loan portfolios taking into account the age of the most recent valuation and geographic area.

The following table presents current LTV data for components of the residential first mortgage and home equity classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current LTV data for the remaining loans in the portfolio is not available, primarily because some of the loans are serviced by others. Data may also not be available due to mergers and systems integrations. The amounts in the table represent the entire loan balance. For purposes of the table below, if the loan balance exceeds the current estimated collateral, the entire balance is included in the “Above 100%” category, regardless of the amount of collateral available to partially offset the shortfall. The balances in the "Above 100%" category as a percentage of the portfolio balances declined to 2 percent in the residential first mortgage portfolio and to 5 percent in the home equity portfolio at December 31, 2015.

Table 13—Estimated Current Loan to Value Ranges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Indirect—Vehicles

Indirect-vehicles lending, which is lending initiated through third-party business partners, largely consists of loans made through automotive dealerships. This portfolio class increased $342 million from year-end 2014, reflecting continued growing demand for automobile loans.

Indirect—Other Consumer

Indirect-other consumer lending represents other point of sale lending through third parties. This portfolio class increased $339 million from year-end 2014 primarily due to new point of sale initiatives.

Consumer Credit Card

Consumer credit card lending represents primarily open-ended variable interest rate consumer credit card loans. These balances increased $66 million during 2015.

65

Table of Contents 

Other Consumer

Other consumer loans primarily include direct consumer loans, overdrafts and other revolving loans. Other consumer loans increased $52 million during 2015.

Regions qualitatively considers factors such as periodic updates of FICO scores, unemployment, home prices, and geography as credit quality indicators for consumer loans. FICO scores are obtained at origination as part of Regions' formal underwriting process. Refreshed FICO scores are obtained by the Company quarterly for all revolving accounts and home equity lines of credit and semi-annually for all other consumer loans. Residential first mortgage FICO scores were refreshed in June of 2015. Home equity, indirect, consumer credit card and other consumer FICO scores were refreshed in December of 2015. The following tables present estimated current FICO score data for components of classes of the consumer portfolio segment. Current FICO data is not available for the remaining loans in the portfolio for various reasons; for example, if customers do not use sufficient credit, an updated score may not be available. Residential first mortgage and home equity balances with FICO scores below 620 were 6 percent of the combined portfolios for both December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014.

Table 14—Estimated Current FICO Score Ranges

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

(1)Amount represents both indirect-vehicles and indirect-other consumer portfolio classes.

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses ("allowance") consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. Regions determines its allowance in accordance with applicable accounting literature as well as regulatory guidance related to receivables and contingencies. Binding unfunded credit commitments include items such as letters of credit, financial guarantees and binding unfunded loan commitments. Additional discussion of the methodology used to calculate the allowance is included in Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements, as well as related discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

The allowance for loan losses totaled $1.1 billion at both December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014. Although the balance remained constant, the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of net loans declined from 1.43 percent at December 31, 2014 to 1.36 percent at December 31, 2015. The decrease in the percentage is primarily attributable to growth in the loan portfolio. Management expects that net loan charge-offs for 2016 will range from 0.25 percent to 0.35 percent. Given the current price of oil, management expects to be at the top end of that range. Economic trends such as interest rates, unemployment, volatility in 

66

Table of Contents 

commodity prices and real estate valuations will impact the future levels of net charge-offs and may result in volatility during 2016. 

Although, Regions' allowance for loan losses as a percentage of net loans decreased, the provision for loan losses increased for 2015 as compared to 2014. During 2015, the provision for loan losses exceeded net charge-offs by approximately $3 million. The increase in loan loss provision reflects loan growth, increased reserves for energy related loans and the results of the Shared National Credit industry-wide examination. 

Management considers the current level of the allowance appropriate to absorb losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios. Management’s determination of the appropriateness of the allowance requires the use of judgments and estimations that may change in the future. Changes in the factors used by management to determine the appropriateness of the allowance or the availability of new information could cause the allowance to be increased or decreased in future periods. Management expects the allowance for credit losses to total loans ratio to vary over time due to changes in portfolio balances, economic conditions, loan mix and collateral values, or variations in other factors that may affect inherent losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies, as part of their examination process, may require changes in the level of the allowance based on their judgments and estimates. Given the current phase of the credit cycle, volatility in certain credit metrics is to be expected. Additionally, changes in circumstances related to individually large credits or certain portfolios may result in volatility. Details regarding the allowance and net charge-offs, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s totals, are included in Table 15 “Allowance for Credit Losses.”

67

Table of Contents 

The table below summarizes activity in the allowance for credit losses for the years ended December 31:

Table 15—Allowance for Credit Losses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

68

Table of Contents 

Allocation of the allowance for loan losses by portfolio segment and class is summarized as follows:

Table 16—Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

TROUBLED DEBT RESTRUCTURINGS (TDRs) 

TDRs are modified loans in which a concession is provided to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty. Residential first mortgage, home equity, indirect-vehicles, consumer credit card and other consumer TDRs are consumer loans modified under the CAP. Commercial and investor real estate loan modifications are not the result of a formal program, but represent situations where modifications were offered as a workout alternative. Renewals of classified commercial and investor real estate loans are considered to be TDRs, even if no reduction in interest rate is offered, if the existing terms are considered to be below market.

More detailed information regarding Regions’ TDRs is included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes the loan balance and related allowance for accruing and non-accruing TDRs for the periods ending December 31:

69

Table of Contents 

Table 17—Troubled Debt Restructurings 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

Note: All loans listed in the table above are considered impaired under applicable accounting literature. 

The following table provides an analysis of the changes in commercial and investor real estate TDRs. TDRs with subsequent restructurings that meet the definition of a TDR are only reported as TDR inflows in the period they were first modified. Other than resolutions such as charge-offs, foreclosures, payments, sales and transfers to held for sale, Regions may remove loans from TDR classification, if the borrower's financial condition improves such that the borrower is no longer in financial difficulty, the loan has not had any forgiveness of principal or interest, and the loan is subsequently refinanced or restructured at market terms and qualifies as a new loan.

For the consumer portfolio, changes in TDRs are primarily due to inflows from CAP modifications and outflows from payments and charge-offs. Given the types of concessions currently being granted under the CAP, as detailed in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements, Regions does not expect that the market interest rate condition will be widely achieved. Therefore, Regions expects consumer loans modified through CAP to continue to be identified as TDRs for the remaining term of the loan.

Table 18—Analysis of Changes in Commercial and Investor Real Estate TDRs 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

70

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

_________

(1) The majority of this category consists of payments and sales. "Other" outflows include normal amortization/accretion of loan basis adjustments and loans transferred to held for sale. It also includes $44 million of commercial loans and $58 million of investor real estate loans refinanced or restructured as new loans and removed from TDR classification during 2015. During 2014, $105 million of commercial loans and $60 million of investor real estate loans were refinanced or restructured as new loans and removed from TDR classification.

71

Table of Contents 

NON-PERFORMING ASSETS

The following table presents non-performing assets as of December 31: 

Table 19—Non-Performing Assets

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)Excludes accruing loans 90 days past due.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The decrease in total non-performing assets during 2015 reflects the Company's continued efforts to work through problem assets and manage the riskiest exposures. Non-performing commercial and industrial loans have increased over this period primarily as a result of pressure on the energy lending portfolio as discussed in the "Portfolio Characteristics" section. Economic trends such as interest rates, unemployment, volatility in commodity prices and real estate valuations will impact the future level of non-performing assets. Circumstances related to individually large credits could also result in volatility throughout 2016.

72

Table of Contents 

Loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing, excluding government guaranteed loans, were $213 million at December 31, 2015, a decrease from $222 million at December 31, 2014.

At December 31, 2015, Regions had approximately $150 million to $225 million of potential problem commercial and investor real estate loans that were not included in non-accrual loans, but for which management had concerns as to the ability of such borrowers to comply with their present loan repayment terms. This is a likely estimate of the amount of commercial and investor real estate loans that have the potential to migrate to non-accrual status in the next quarter.

In order to arrive at the estimate of potential problem loans, personnel from geographic regions forecast certain larger dollar loans that may potentially be downgraded to non-accrual at a future time, depending on the occurrence of future events. These personnel consider a variety of factors, including the borrower’s capacity and willingness to meet the contractual repayment terms, make principal curtailments or provide additional collateral when necessary, and provide current and complete financial information including global cash flows, contingent liabilities and sources of liquidity. Based upon the consideration of these factors a probability weighting is assigned to loans to reflect the potential for migration to the pool of potential problem loans during this specific time period. Additionally, for other loans (for example, smaller dollar loans), a trend analysis is incorporated to determine the estimate of potential future downgrades. Because of the inherent uncertainty in forecasting future events, the estimate of potential problem loans ultimately represents the estimated aggregate dollar amounts of loans as opposed to an individual listing of loans.

The majority of the loans on which the potential problem loan estimate is based are considered criticized and classified. Detailed disclosures for substandard accrual loans (as well as other credit quality metrics) are included in Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements.

The following table provides an analysis of non-accrual loans (excluding loans held for sale) by portfolio segment for the periods presented: 

Table 20—Analysis of Non-Accrual Loans

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

73

Table of Contents 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

________

(1)All net activity within the consumer portfolio segment other than sales and transfers to held for sale (including related charge-offs) is included as a single net number within the additions line.

(2)Includes charge-offs on loans on non-accrual status and charge-offs taken upon sale and transfer of non-accrual loans to held for sale.[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Other Earning Assets

Other earning assets consist primarily of investments in FRB stock, FHLB stock, and operating lease assets. The balance at December 31, 2015 was approximately $1.7 billion compared to $616 million at December 31, 2014. The current year increase was primarily due to the leasing reclassification adjustment discussed below.

During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Company corrected the accounting for certain leases, for which Regions is the lessor. These leases had been previously classified as capital leases but were subsequently determined to be operating leases and totaled approximately $834 million at December 31, 2015. The adjustment resulted in a reclassification of these leases out of loans into other earning assets. 

During the fourth quarter of 2015, Regions also reclassified its investments in FRB and FHLB stock from securities available for sale to other earning assets on its consolidated balance sheets. This reclassification was made for all periods presented.

Refer to Note 8 "Other Earning Assets" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Premises and Equipment

Premises and equipment at December 31, 2015 decreased $41 million to $2.2 billion compared to year-end 2014. This decrease primarily resulted from depreciation expense on existing assets.

Goodwill

Goodwill totaled $4.9 billion and $4.8 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and was reallocated to the new reporting units during 2014. Refer to the “Critical Accounting Policies” section earlier in this report for detailed discussions of the Company’s methodology for testing goodwill for impairment. Refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 10 “Intangible Assets” to the consolidated financial statements for the methodologies and assumptions used in Step One of the goodwill impairment test and further details on the reallocation. Additionally, Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to the consolidated financial statements includes information related to the fair value measurements of certain assets and liabilities and the valuation methodology of such measurements, which is also used for testing goodwill for impairment.

Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights

Residential MSRs decreased approximately $5 million from December 31, 2014 to December 31, 2015. The year-over-year decrease is primarily due to the economic amortization associated with borrower repayments exceeding the value of additions resulting from loans sold during the period. An analysis of residential MSRs is presented in Note 7 “Servicing of Financial Assets” to the consolidated financial statements. 

Foreclosed Properties

Foreclosed properties at December 31, 2015 decreased $24 million to $100 million compared to year-end 2014. This decrease reflects the Company's continued efforts to effectively manage its foreclosed commercial and consumer properties.

74

Table of Contents 

Other Assets

Other assets decreased $92 million to $5.9 billion as of December 31, 2015. Timing differences between settlement and trade date accounting primarily drove the decrease. The decrease was offset by increases in the cash surrender value of investments in bank-owned life insurance and additional investments in affordable housing.

Deposits

Regions competes with other banking and financial services companies for a share of the deposit market. Regions’ ability to compete in the deposit market depends heavily on the pricing of its deposits and how effectively the Company meets customers’ needs. Regions employs various means to meet those needs and enhance competitiveness, such as providing a high level of customer service, competitive pricing and providing convenient branch locations for its customers. Regions also serves customers through providing centralized, high-quality banking services and alternative product delivery channels such as internet banking.

Deposits are Regions’ primary source of funds, providing funding for 90 percent of average earning assets in both 2015 and 2014. Table 21 “Deposits” details year-over-year deposits on a period-ending basis. Total deposits at December 31, 2015 increased approximately $4.2 billion compared to year-end 2014 levels. The increase in deposits was primarily driven by increases in non-interest-bearing demand, interest-bearing transaction and money market accounts. These increases were partially offset by continued declines in time deposits.

Due to liquidity in the market, Regions has been able to steadily grow its low-cost customer deposits and reduce its total deposit costs from 15 basis points in 2013 to 11 basis points in both 2014 and 2015. The following table summarizes deposits by category as of December 31:

Table 21—Deposits

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Within customer deposits, non-interest-bearing demand deposits increased $3.1 billion to $34.9 billion. Non-interest-bearing deposits accounted for approximately 35 percent of total deposits at year-end 2015 compared to 34 percent at year-end 2014. Savings balances increased $634 million to $7.3 billion, generally reflecting continued consumer savings trends, spurred by economic uncertainty. Interest-bearing transaction accounts increased $358 million to $21.9 billion. Interest-bearing transaction deposits accounted for approximately 22 percent and 23 percent of total deposits at year-end 2015 and 2014, respectively.

Domestic money market products, which exclude foreign money market accounts, are one of Regions’ most significant funding sources. These balances accounted for 27 percent of total deposits in both 2015 and 2014.

Included in customer time deposits are certificates of deposit and individual retirement accounts. The balance of customer time deposits decreased 13 percent in 2015 to $7.5 billion compared to $8.6 billion in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to maturities with minimal reinvestment by customers as a result of the continued decline in interest rates offered on these products. Customer time deposits accounted for 8 percent of total deposits in 2015 compared to 9 percent in 2014. See Table 22 “Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More” for maturity information.

During 2015, corporate treasury deposits remained at low levels as the Company continued to utilize customer-based funding and other sources. 

The sensitivity of Regions’ deposit rates to changes in market interest rates is reflected in Regions’ average interest rate paid on interest-bearing deposits. The rate paid on interest-bearing deposits remained consistent at 0.17 percent in 2015 compared to 2014, driven by the expiration of time deposits, the positive mix shift to lower cost customer products, and continuation of the low interest rate environment throughout much of 2015. 

75

Table of Contents 

Table 22—Maturity of Time Deposits of $100,000 or More 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Short-Term Borrowings

See Note 12 “Short-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of these borrowings at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The levels of these borrowings can fluctuate depending on the Company’s funding needs and the sources utilized, as well as a result of customers’ activity. 

Company Funding Sources

In the near term, Regions expects the use of wholesale unsecured borrowings to remain low. Short-term secured borrowings, such as securities sold under agreements to repurchase and FHLB advances, are a core portion of Regions' funding strategy and quantities of advances vary depending on the different funding needs of the Bank. 

Regions has taken an approach to maintain higher levels of cash at the Federal Reserve Bank. The securities financing market and specifically short-term FHLB advances, however, continue to provide reliable funding at attractive rates. See the "Liquidity Risk" section for further detail of Regions' borrowing capacity with the FHLB.

Customer-Related Borrowings

Repurchase agreements were offered as short-term investment opportunities for customers. As a result of Regions' work toward compliance with the new liquidity coverage ratio regulatory requirements, customer repurchase agreement products and balances were fully phased out effective July 1, 2015. See the "Liquidity Coverage Ratio" discussion within the "Regulatory Requirements" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information.

Long-Term Borrowings

Total long-term borrowings increased $4.9 billion to $8.3 billion at December 31, 2015. The increase between years was primarily the result of a $5.2 billion increase in FHLB advances and an issuance of $750 million of 2.25% senior bank notes that occurred during the third quarter of 2015. These increases were offset by approximately $850 million in maturities of senior and subordinated notes during the second quarter of 2015 and the repurchase of approximately $250 million of subordinated notes during the first quarter of 2015. The first quarter repurchase was a result of a tender offer that Regions Bank launched in February of 2015 for a portion of its outstanding 7.50% subordinated notes due 2018. Pre-tax losses on early extinguishment related to the execution of this tender offer were $43 million. 

On February 8, 2016, Regions issued $500 million of 3.20% senior notes due February 8, 2021. The Company simultaneously entered into an interest rate swap effectively converting the instrument to a floating rate tied to three-month LIBOR. See Note 13 “Long-Term Borrowings” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion and detailed listing of outstandings and rates.

Other Liabilities

Other liabilities decreased $358 million to $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2015 compared to the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by lower employee benefit liabilities related to qualified plans (see Note 18 “Employee Benefit Plans” to the consolidated financial statements for further details) and a decrease in the indemnification obligation related to Morgan Keegan (see Note 24 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for further details).

76

Table of Contents 

Ratings

Table 23 “Credit Ratings” reflects the debt ratings information of Regions Financial Corporation and Regions Bank by Standard and Poor's ("S&P"), Moody’s, Fitch and Dominion Bond Rating Service ("DBRS") as of December 31, 2015 and 2014.

Table 23—Credit Ratings 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)S&P does not provide a rating for Long-term bank deposits therefore the rating is N/A.

On May 14, 2015, Moody's upgraded its rating on Regions Financial Corporation's senior and subordinated notes. At the same time Moody's also upgraded its rating on Regions Bank's long-term bank deposits and short-term debt, long-term debt, and subordinated debt. The upgrades are attributed to the Bank's enhanced risk management infrastructure and a decline in asset concentrations.

On December 18, 2015, DBRS revised the trend for all Regions Financial Corporation’s ratings to Positive from Stable with the exception of Regions Bank's short-term instruments rating, which remains Stable. The positive trend is attributed to the progress the Company has made improving its asset quality and reducing its risk profile. 

In general, ratings agencies base their ratings on many quantitative and qualitative factors, including capital adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, business mix, probability of government support, and level and quality of earnings. Any downgrade in credit ratings by one or more ratings agencies may impact Regions in several ways, including, but not limited to, Regions’ access to the capital markets or short-term funding, borrowing cost and capacity, collateral requirements, acceptability of its letters of credit, and funding of VRDNs, thereby potentially adversely impacting Regions’ financial condition and liquidity. See the “Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information.

A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and the ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.

Stockholders' Equity

Stockholders’ equity was $16.8 billion at December 31, 2015 compared to $16.9 billion at December 31, 2014. During 2015, net income increased stockholders’ equity by $1.1 billion, while shares repurchased reduced equity by $623 million, cash dividends on common stock reduced equity by $304 million and cash dividends on preferred stock reduced equity by $64 million. Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income reduced equity by $142 million, primarily due to the net change in the value of available for sale securities.

77

Table of Contents 

As part of its 2015 CCAR submission, Regions' Board authorized a new $875 million common stock purchase plan, permitting repurchases from the beginning of the second quarter of 2015 through the end of the second quarter of 2016. As of December 31, 2015, Regions had repurchased approximately 52 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $520 million under this plan. The Company continued to repurchase shares under this plan in the first quarter of 2016, and as of February 12, 2016, Regions had additional repurchases of approximately 17.8 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $135.3 million. These shares were immediately retired upon repurchase and therefore will not be included in treasury stock.

As part of its 2014 CCAR submission, Regions' Board approved the issuance of $500 million of the Company's 6.375% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, an additional increase to its quarterly common stock dividend, as well as, an additional common stock repurchase plan up to $350 million. Net proceeds from the Series B preferred stock issuance increased equity by approximately $486 million. As of December 31, 2014, Regions had repurchased approximately 25 million shares of common stock at a total cost of approximately $248 million under the approved share repurchase plan. The Company continued to repurchase shares under this plan in the first quarter of 2015 and concluded the plan in February of 2015 with the repurchase of approximately 11 million shares at a total cost of approximately $102 million. These shares were immediately retired upon repurchase and therefore are not included in treasury stock.

Regions increased its annual dividend to $0.23 per common share for 2015, compared to $0.18 per common share for 2014 and $0.10 per common share for 2013. Because the Company was in a retained deficit position, the common stock dividends were recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in-capital. Management will continue to execute the capital planning process, including evaluation of the amount of the common stock dividend, with the Board and in conjunction with regulatory supervisors, subject to the Company’s results of operations.

Total cash dividends on preferred stock reduced equity by $64 million in 2015 and $52 million in 2014. Because the Company was in a retained deficit position, preferred dividends were recorded as a reduction of preferred stock, including related surplus.

See Note 15 “Stockholders’ Equity and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)” to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS 

CAPITAL RULES

Regions and Regions Bank are required to comply with regulatory capital requirements established by Federal and State banking agencies. These regulatory capital requirements involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, and also qualitative judgments by the regulators. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can subject the Company to a series of increasingly restrictive regulatory actions. See Note 14 "Regulatory Capital Requirements and Restrictions" to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the applicable holding company and bank regulatory capital requirements.

In 2013, the Federal Reserve released its final rules detailing the U.S. implementation of the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision’s Basel III framework (“Basel III Rules”). Under the Basel III Rules, Regions is designated as a standardized approach bank and, as such, began transitioning to the Basel III Rules in January 2015 subject to a phase-in period extending through January 2019. When fully phased in, the Basel III Rules will increase capital requirements through higher minimum capital levels as well as through increases in risk-weights for certain exposures. Additionally, the Basel III Rules place greater emphasis on common equity. The Basel III Rules substantially revise the regulatory capital requirements applicable to BHCs and depository institutions, including Regions and Regions Bank. The Basel III Rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios. The Basel III Rules also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios to incorporate a more risk-sensitive approach. The Basel III Rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal banking agencies' rules. 

The Basel III Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a measure called CET1, (ii) specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the deductions/adjustments to capital as compared to prior regulations.

Under the Basel III Rules, the initial minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2015 were as follows:

•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets.

•6.0% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets.

•8.0% Total capital to risk-weighted assets.

The Basel III Rules also introduce a new capital conservation buffer designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress. The capital conservation buffer is on top of these minimum risk-weighted asset ratios. In addition, the Basel III Rules provide for a countercyclical capital buffer applicable only to advanced approach institutions. Currently the countercyclical capital buffer is not applicable to Regions or Regions Bank. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the 

78

Table of Contents 

minimum but below the combined capital conservation buffer and capital will face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.

When fully phased in on January 1, 2019, the Basel III Rules will require Regions and Regions Bank to maintain an additional capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of CET1 to risk-weighted assets, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of (i) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7%, (ii) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%, and (iii) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%.

The Basel III Rules provide for a number of deductions from and adjustments to CET1. For example, goodwill and certain other intangible assets, as well as certain deferred tax assets are deducted. MSRs, certain other deferred tax assets and significant investments in non-consolidated financial entities are also deducted from CET1 to the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under the Basel III Rules, the effects of certain accumulated other comprehensive items are included; however, standardized approach banking organizations, including Regions and Regions Bank, may make a one-time permanent election to exclude these items. Regions and Regions Bank made this election in order to avoid significant variations in the level of capital depending upon the impact of interest rate fluctuations on the fair value of their securities portfolios.

Implementation of the deductions and other adjustments to CET1 began on January 1, 2015 and will be phased in over a 4-year period (beginning at 40% on January 1, 2015 and an additional 20% per year thereafter). The implementation of the capital conservation buffer will begin on January 1, 2016 at the 0.625% level and be phased in over a 4-year period (increasing by that amount on each subsequent January 1, until it reaches 2.5% on January 1, 2019).

With respect to Regions Bank, the Basel III Rules also revise the prompt corrective action regulations pursuant to Section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, by (i) introducing a CET1 ratio requirement at each level (other than critically undercapitalized), with the required CET1 ratio being 6.5% for well-capitalized status; (ii) increasing the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio requirement for each category, with the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio for well-capitalized status being 8% (as compared to the previous 6%); and (iii) eliminating the provision that provides that a bank with a composite supervisory rating of 1 may have a 3% leverage ratio and still be adequately capitalized. The Basel III Rules do not change the total capital requirement for any prompt corrective action category.

The Basel III Rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expands the risk-weighting categories from the previous four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 1,250% for certain equity exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. Specific changes to the prior capital rules impacting Regions' determination of risk-weighted assets include, among other things:

•Applying a 150% risk weight for certain high volatility commercial real estate acquisition, development and construction exposures (previously set at 100%).

•Assigning a 150% risk weight to exposures (other than residential mortgage exposures) that are on non-accrual status or 90 days or more past due (previously set at 100%).

•Providing for a 20% credit conversion factor for the unused portion of a loan commitment with an original maturity of less than one year that is not unconditionally cancellable (previously set at 0%). 

•Eliminating the previous 50% cap on the risk weight for derivative exposures.

•Replacing the previous Ratings Based Approach for certain asset-backed securities with a Simplified Supervisory Formula Approach ("SSFA") which results in risk weights ranging from 20% to 1,250% (previously ranged from 100% to 1,250%).

•Effective January 1, 2018, applying a 250% risk weight to the portion of MSRs and deferred tax assets that are includible in capital (previously set at 100%).

In addition, the Basel III Rules also provide more advantageous risk weights for derivatives and repurchase-style transactions cleared through a qualifying central counterparty and increase the scope of eligible guarantors and eligible collateral for purposes of credit risk mitigation.

The Company’s estimated CET1 ratio on a fully phased-in basis as of December 31, 2015 was approximately 10.69% and therefore exceeded the Basel III minimum of 7% for CET1. Because the Basel III capital calculations will not be fully phased in until 2019 and are not formally defined by GAAP, this measure is considered to be non-GAAP financial measure, and other entities may calculate it differently than Regions’ disclosed calculation (see Table 2 “GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation” for further details).

LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO ("LCR")

The Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC approved a final rule in 2014 implementing a minimum LCR requirement for certain large BHCs, savings and loan holding companies and depository institutions, and a less stringent LCR requirement (the 

79

Table of Contents 

"modified LCR") for other banking organizations, such as Regions, with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets. The final rule imposes a monthly calculation requirement. In January 2016, the minimum phased-in LCR requirement will be 90 percent, followed by 100 percent in January 2017. The regulatory agencies have released an NPR that would require public disclosures of certain LCR measures beginning in 2018. The comment period for this NPR ends in February 2016.

At December 31, 2015, the Company was fully compliant with the LCR requirements. However, should the Company's cash position or investment mix change in the future, the Company's ability to meet the LCR requirement may be impacted, and additional funding would need to be sourced to remain compliant.

See the “Supervision and Regulation-Liquidity Regulation” subsection of the “Business” section and the “Risk Factors” section for more information.

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS

Regions periodically invests in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects, which are funded through a combination of debt and equity. See Note 2 “Variable Interest Entities” to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.

Regions' off-balance sheet credit risk includes obligations for loans sold with recourse, unfunded loan commitments, and letters of credit. See Note 7 "Servicing of Financial Assets" and Note 24 "Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees" to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION

The majority of assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature; therefore, a financial institution differs greatly from most commercial and industrial companies, which have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories that are greatly impacted by inflation. However, inflation does have an important impact on the growth of total assets in the banking industry and the resulting need to increase equity capital at higher than normal rates in order to maintain an appropriate equity-to-assets ratio. Inflation also affects other expenses that tend to rise during periods of general inflation.

Management believes the most significant potential impact of inflation on financial results is a direct result of Regions’ ability to manage the impact of changes in interest rates. Management attempts to maintain an essentially balanced position between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in order to minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income and other financing income. However, this goal can be difficult to completely achieve in times of rapidly changing rate structure and is one of many factors considered in determining the Company’s interest rate positioning. The Company is moderately asset sensitive as of December 31, 2015. Refer to Table 24 “Interest Rate Sensitivity” for additional details on Regions’ interest rate sensitivity.

EFFECTS OF DEFLATION

A period of deflation would affect all industries, including financial institutions. Potentially, deflation could lead to lower profits, higher unemployment, lower production and deterioration in overall economic conditions. In addition, deflation could depress economic activity and impair bank earnings through increasing the value of debt while decreasing the value of collateral for loans. If the economy experienced a severe period of deflation, then it could depress loan demand, impair the ability of borrowers to repay loans and sharply reduce bank earnings.

Management believes the most significant potential impact of deflation on financial results relates to Regions’ ability to maintain a sufficient amount of capital to cushion against future losses. However, the Company can utilize certain risk management tools to help it maintain its balance sheet strength even if a deflationary scenario were to develop.

RISK MANAGEMENT

Regions is exposed to various risks as part of the normal course of operations. The exposure to risk requires sound risk management practices that comprise an integrated and comprehensive set of programs and processes that apply to the entire Company. Accordingly, Regions has established a risk management framework to manage risks and provide reasonable assurance of the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives.

The primary risk exposures identified and managed through the Company’s risk management framework are market risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, operational risk, legal risk, compliance risk, reputational risk, and strategic risk. 

•Market risk is the risk to Regions’ financial condition resulting from adverse movements in market rates or prices, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates or equity prices. 

•Liquidity risk is the potential that the Company will be unable to meet its obligations as they come due because of an inability to liquidate assets or obtain adequate funding (referred to as "funding liquidity risk") or that it cannot easily unwind or offset specific exposures without significantly lowering market prices because of inadequate market depth or market disruptions ("market liquidity risk"). 

•Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet a contractual obligation. 

80

Table of Contents 

•Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, and systems or from external events.

•Legal risk arises from the potential that lawsuits, adverse judgments or unenforceable contracts can disrupt or otherwise negatively affect the operations or financial condition of the Company. 

•Compliance risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings or capital arising from violations of laws, rules, or regulations, or from non-conformance with prescribed practices, internal policies and procedures, or ethical standards.

•Reputational risk is the potential that negative publicity regarding Regions' business practices, whether true or not, will cause a decline in the customer base, costly litigation, or revenue reductions. 

•Strategic risk is the risk to current or anticipated earnings, capital, or franchise or enterprise value arising from adverse business decisions, poor implementation of business decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in the banking industry and operating environment.

Several of these primary risk exposures are expanded upon further within the remaining sections of Management's Discussion and Analysis.

Regions’ risk management framework outlines the Company’s approach for managing risk that includes the following four components:

•Culture - A strong, collaborative risk culture ensures focus on risk in all activities and encourages the necessary mindset and behavior to enable effective risk management and promote sound risk-taking within the bounds of the Company’s risk appetite. Our risk culture requires that risks be promptly identified, escalated, and challenged; thereby, benefiting the overall performance of the Company.

•Appetite - The Company's Risk Appetite Statements define the types and levels of risk the Company is willing to take to achieve its objectives.

•Process - Effective risk management requires sustainable processes and tools to effectively identify, measure, mitigate, monitor, and report risk.

•Governance - Governance serves as the foundation for comprehensive management of risks facing the Company. It outlines clear responsibility and accountability for managing, monitoring, escalating, and reporting both existing and emerging risks.

Clearly defined roles and responsibilities are critical to the effective management of risk and are central to the four components of the Company’s approach to risk management. Regions utilizes the Three Lines of Defense concept to clearly designate risk management activities within the Company.

•1st Line of Defense activities provide for the identification, acceptance and ownership of risks.

•2nd Line of Defense activities provide for objective oversight of the Company’s risk-taking activities and assessment of the Company’s aggregate risk levels.

•3rd Line of Defense activities provide for independent reviews and assessments of risk management practices across the Company.

The Board provides the highest level of risk management governance. The principal risk management functions of the Board are to oversee processes for evaluating the adequacy of internal controls, risk management, financial reporting and compliance with laws and regulations. The Board has designated an Audit Committee of outside directors to focus on oversight of management's establishment and maintenance of appropriate disclosure controls and procedures over financial reporting. See the "Financial Disclosures and Internal Controls" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information. The Board has also designated a Risk Committee of outside directors to focus on Regions’ overall risk profile. The committee annually approves a Risk Appetite Statement that reflects core business principles and strategic vision by including quantitative limits and qualitative statements that are organized by risk type. This statement is designed to be a high-level document that sets the tone for the Board’s risk appetite, which is the maximum amount of risk the Company is willing to accept in pursuit of its business objectives. By establishing boundaries around risk taking and business decisions, and by incorporating the needs and goals of its stockholders, regulators, customers and other stakeholders, the Company’s risk appetite is aligned with its strategic priorities and goals.

The Risk Management Group, led by the Company’s Chief Risk Officer, ensures the consistent application of Regions’ risk management approach within the structure of the Company’s operating, capital and strategic plans. The primary activities of the Risk Management Group include:

•Interpreting internal and external signals that point to possible risk issues for the Company;

•Identifying risks and determining which Company areas and/or products will be affected;

81

Table of Contents 

•Ensuring there are mechanisms in place to specifically determine how risks will affect the Company as a whole and the individual area and or product;

•Assisting business groups in analyzing trends and ensuring Company areas have appropriate risk identification and mitigation processes in place; and

•Reviewing the limits, parameters, policies, and procedures in place to ensure the continued appropriateness of risk controls.

As part of its ongoing assessment process, the Risk Management Group makes recommendations to management and the Risk Committee of the Board regarding adjustments to these controls as conditions or risk tolerances change. In addition, the Internal Audit division provides an independent assessment of the Company’s internal control structure and related systems and processes.

Management, with the assistance of the Risk Management Group, follows a formal process for identifying, measuring and documenting key risks facing each business group and determining how those risks can be controlled or mitigated, as well as how the controls can be monitored to ensure they are effective. The Risk Committee receives reports from management to ensure operations are within the limits established by the Committee’s Risk Appetite Statement.

Some of the more significant processes used by management to manage and control risks are described in the remainder of this report. External factors beyond management’s control may result in losses despite the Risk Management Group’s efforts.

MARKET RISK—INTEREST RATE RISK 

Regions’ primary market risk is interest rate risk, including uncertainty with respect to absolute interest rate levels as well as uncertainty with respect to relative interest rate levels, which is impacted by both the shape and the slope of the various yield curves that affect the financial products and services that the Company offers. To quantify this risk, Regions measures the change in its net interest income and other financing income in various interest rate scenarios compared to a base case scenario. Net interest income and other financing income sensitivity is a useful short-term indicator of Regions’ interest rate risk.

Sensitivity Measurement—Financial simulation models are Regions’ primary tools used to measure interest rate exposure. Using a wide range of sophisticated simulation techniques provides management with extensive information on the potential impact to net interest income and other financing income caused by changes in interest rates. Models are structured to simulate cash flows and accrual characteristics of Regions’ balance sheet. Assumptions are made about the direction and volatility of interest rates, the slope of the yield curve, and the changing composition of the balance sheet that result from both strategic plans and from customer behavior. Among the assumptions are expectations of balance sheet growth and composition, the pricing and maturity characteristics of existing business and the characteristics of future business. Interest rate-related risks are expressly considered, such as pricing spreads, the pricing of deposit accounts, prepayments and other option risks. Regions considers these factors, as well as the degree of certainty or uncertainty surrounding their future behavior.

The primary objective of asset/liability management at Regions is to coordinate balance sheet composition with interest rate risk management to sustain a reasonable and stable net interest income and other financing income throughout various interest rate cycles. In computing interest rate sensitivity for measurement, Regions compares a set of alternative interest rate scenarios to the results of a base case scenario based on “market forward rates.” The standard set of interest rate scenarios includes the traditional instantaneous parallel rate shifts of plus 100 and 200 basis points. Regions also prepares a minus 50 basis points scenario, as minus 100 and 200 basis scenarios are of limited use in the current rate environment. Up-rate scenarios of greater magnitude are also analyzed, and are of increased importance as the current and historic low levels of interest rates increase the relative likelihood of a rapid and substantial increase in interest rates. Regions also includes simulations of gradual interest rate movements that may more realistically mimic potential interest rate movements. These gradual scenarios include curve steepening, flattening, and parallel movements of various magnitudes phased in over a six-month period, and include rate shifts of minus 50 basis points and plus 100 and 200 basis points.

Exposure to Interest Rate Movements—As of December 31, 2015, Regions was moderately asset sensitive to both gradual and instantaneous parallel yield curve shifts as compared to the base case for the measurement horizon ending December 2016. The estimated exposure associated with the parallel yield curve shift of minus 50 basis points in the table below reflects the combined impacts of movements in short-term and long-term rates. Long-term interest rate reductions will drive yields lower on certain fixed rate loans newly originated or renewed, and on prospective yields of certain investment portfolio purchases, as well as drive higher amortization of premium on existing securities in the investment portfolio. A decline in short-term interest rates (such as the Federal Funds rate and the rate of Interest on Excess Reserves) will lead to a reduction of yield on assets and liabilities contractually tied to such rates, but since rates have been at low levels for such an extended period, it is expected that declines in deposit costs will only partially offset the decline in asset yields. 

Long-term interest rates increased modestly during the fourth quarter of 2015, however they continue to remain low by historical standards. Similarly, short-term interest rates increased modestly during the fourth quarter of 2015 as the Federal Reserve raised the Fed funds target range by 25 basis points in December. As described above, with respect to sensitivity to long-term rates, 

82

Table of Contents 

the balance sheet is estimated to be moderately asset sensitive. Current simulation models estimate that, as compared to the base case, net interest income and other financing income over a 12 month horizon would respond favorably by approximately $112 million if long-term rates were to immediately and on a sustained basis exceed the base scenario by 100 basis points. Conversely, if long-term rates were to immediately and on a sustained basis underperform the base case by 50 basis points, then net interest income and other financing income, as compared to the base case, would decline by approximately $66 million. The table below summarizes Regions' positioning in various parallel yield curve shifts (i.e. including both long-term and short-term interest rates). The scenarios are inclusive of all interest rate risk hedging activities. 

Table 24—Interest Rate Sensitivity 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

As discussed above, the interest rate sensitivity analysis presented in Table 24 is informed by a variety of assumptions and estimates regarding the course of the balance sheet in both the baseline scenario as well as the scenarios of instantaneous and gradual shifts in the yield curve. Though there are many assumptions which affect the estimates for net interest income and other financing income, those pertaining to deposit pricing, deposit mix and overall balance sheet composition are particularly impactful. Given the uncertainties associated with the prolonged period of low interest rates, management evaluates the impact to its sensitivity analysis of these key assumptions. 

The Company’s baseline balance sheet growth assumptions include continued moderate loan and deposit growth with a composition largely reflecting a continuation of recent trends. The behavior of deposits in response to changes in interest rate levels is largely informed by analyses of prior rate cycles, but with suitable adjustments based on management’s expectations in the current rate environment. In the + 200 basis point gradual interest rate change scenario in Table 24, the total cumulative interest bearing deposit re-pricing sensitivity is expected to be approximately 60 percent of changes in short-term market rates (e.g. Federal Funds), as compared to approximately 55 percent in the 2004 to 2007 historical timeframe. A 5 percentage point higher sensitivity than the 60 percent baseline would reduce 12 month net interest income and other financing income in the gradual +200 basis points scenario by approximately $58 million. 

Similarly, management assumes that the change in the mix of deposits in a rising rate environment versus the baseline balance sheet growth assumptions is informed by analyses of prior rate cycles. Management assumes that in rising rate scenarios, some shift from non-interest bearing to interest-bearing products will occur. The magnitude of the shift is rate dependent, but equates to approximately $3.5 billion over 12 months in the gradual +200 basis point scenario in Table 24. In the event this shift increased by an additional $3.0 billion over 12 months, the result would be a reduction of 12 month net interest income and other financing income in the gradual +200 basis points scenario by approximately $29 million. Sensitivity calculations are hypothetical and should not be considered to be predictive of future results.

Management expects to increase net interest income and other financing income in the range of 2 percent to 4 percent in 2016, commensurate with average loan growth in the 3 percent to 5 percent range. The high end of the range assumes an interest rate scenario equal to the market forward interest rates as of November 6, 2015, while the low end of the range assumes interest rates remaining relatively unchanged from current low levels. However, new information learned after the November 6, 2015 estimation date increases the risk to the Company that it can achieve the high end of the target range. The new information includes legislation signed into law setting the dividend paid to Regions on Federal Reserve stock at the 10-year U.S. Treasury rate. Based on that rate at December 31, 2015, the reduction in the dividend paid to Regions is estimated to be approximately $18 million annually. 

Interest rate movements may also have an impact on the value of Regions’ securities portfolio, which can directly impact the carrying value of stockholders’ equity. Regions from time to time may hedge these price movements with derivatives (as discussed below). 

83

Table of Contents 

Derivatives—Regions uses financial derivative instruments for management of interest rate sensitivity. ALCO, which consists of members of Regions’ senior management team, in its oversight role for the management of interest rate sensitivity, approves the use of derivatives in balance sheet hedging strategies. The most common derivatives Regions employs are forward rate contracts, Eurodollar futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and floors, and forward sale commitments. Derivatives are also used to offset the risks associated with customer derivatives, which include interest rate, credit and foreign exchange risks.

Forward rate contracts are commitments to buy or sell financial instruments at a future date at a specified price or yield. A Eurodollar futures contract is a future on a Eurodollar deposit. Eurodollar futures contracts subject Regions to market risk associated with changes in interest rates. Because futures contracts are cash settled daily, there is minimal credit risk associated with Eurodollar futures. Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements typically entered into to exchange fixed for variable (or vice versa) streams of interest payments. The notional principal is not exchanged but is used as a reference for the size of interest settlements. Interest rate options are contracts that allow the buyer to purchase or sell a financial instrument at a predetermined price and time. Forward sale commitments are contractual obligations to sell market instruments at a future date for an already agreed-upon price. Foreign currency contracts involve the exchange of one currency for another on a specified date and at a specified rate. These contracts are executed on behalf of the Company's customers and are used to manage fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company is subject to the credit risk that another party will fail to perform.

Regions has made use of interest rate swaps to effectively convert a portion of its fixed-rate funding position and available for sale securities portfolio to a variable-rate position and, in some cases, to effectively convert a portion of its variable-rate loan portfolio to fixed-rate. Regions also uses derivatives to manage interest rate and pricing risk associated with its mortgage origination business. In the period of time that elapses between the origination and sale of mortgage loans, changes in interest rates have the potential to cause a decline in the value of the loans in this held-for-sale portfolio. Futures contracts and forward sale commitments are used to protect the value of the loan pipeline and loans held for sale from changes in interest rates and pricing. 

The following table presents additional information about the interest rate derivatives used by Regions to manage interest rate risk:

Table 25—Hedging Derivatives by Interest Rate Risk Management Strategy 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Regions manages the credit risk of these instruments in much the same way as it manages credit risk of the loan portfolios by establishing credit limits for each counterparty and through collateral agreements for dealer transactions. For non-dealer transactions, the need for collateral is evaluated on an individual transaction basis and is primarily dependent on the financial strength of the counterparty. Credit risk is also reduced significantly by entering into legally enforceable master netting agreements. When there is more than one transaction with a counterparty and there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement in place, the exposure represents the net of the gain and loss positions with and collateral received from and/or posted to that counterparty. The majority of interest rate derivatives traded by Regions are subject to mandatory clearing. The counterparty risk for cleared trades effectively moves from the executing broker to the clearinghouse allowing Regions to benefit from the risk mitigation controls in place at the respective clearinghouse. The “Credit Risk” section in this report contains more information on the management of credit risk.

Regions also uses derivatives to meet the needs of its customers. Interest rate swaps, interest rate options and foreign exchange forwards are the most common derivatives sold to customers. Other derivatives instruments with similar characteristics are used to hedge market risk and minimize volatility associated with this portfolio. Instruments used to service customers are held in the trading account, with changes in value recorded in the consolidated statements of income.

The primary objective of Regions’ hedging strategies is to mitigate the impact of interest rate changes, from an economic perspective, on net interest income and other financing income and the net present value of its balance sheet. The overall effectiveness 

84

Table of Contents 

of these hedging strategies is subject to market conditions, the quality of Regions’ execution, the accuracy of its valuation assumptions, counterparty credit risk and changes in interest rates. See Note 21 “Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities” to the consolidated financial statements for a tabular summary of Regions’ year-end derivatives positions and further discussion.

Regions accounts for residential MSRs at fair market value with any changes to fair value being recorded within mortgage income. Regions enters into derivative and balance sheet transactions to mitigate the impact of market value fluctuations related to residential MSRs. Derivative instruments entered into in the future could be materially different from the current risk profile of Regions’ current portfolio.

MARKET RISK—PREPAYMENT RISK 

Regions, like most financial institutions, is subject to changing prepayment speeds on mortgage-related assets under different interest rate environments. Prepayment risk is a significant risk to earnings and specifically to net interest income and other financing income. For example, mortgage loans and other financial assets may be prepaid by a debtor, so that the debtor may refinance its obligations at lower rates. As loans and other financial assets prepay in a falling rate environment, Regions must reinvest these funds in lower-yielding assets. Prepayments of assets carrying higher rates reduce Regions’ interest income and overall asset yields. Conversely, in a rising rate environment, these assets will prepay at a slower rate, resulting in opportunity cost by not having the cash flow to reinvest at higher rates. Prepayment risk can also impact the value of securities and the carrying value of equity. Regions’ greatest exposures to prepayment risks primarily rest in its mortgage-backed securities portfolio, the mortgage fixed-rate loan portfolio and the residential mortgage servicing asset, all of which tend to be sensitive to interest rate movements. Each of these assets is also exposed to prepayment risk due to factors which are not necessarily the result of interest rates, but rather due to changes in policies or programs related, either directly or indirectly, to the U.S. Government's governance over certain lending and financing within the mortgage market. Such policies can work to either encourage or discourage financing dynamics and represent a risk that is extremely difficult to forecast and may be the result of non-economic factors. The Company attempts to monitor and manage such exposures within reasonable expectations while acknowledging all such risks cannot be foreseen or avoided. Further, Regions has prepayment risk that would be reflected in non-interest income in the form of servicing income on loans sold. Regions actively monitors prepayment exposure as part of its overall net interest income and other financing income forecasting and interest rate risk management. In particular, because current interest rates are relatively low, Regions is actively managing exposure to declining prepayments that may occur in the loan and securities portfolio in the event of increasing market interest rates. 

LIQUIDITY RISK

Liquidity is an important factor in the financial condition of Regions and affects Regions’ ability to meet the borrowing needs and deposit withdrawal requirements of its customers. In 2014, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC released the final version of the liquidity coverage ratio rule, which is designed to ensure that financial institutions have the necessary assets on hand to withstand short-term liquidity disruptions. See the "Liquidity Coverage Ratio" discussion included in the "Regulatory Requirements" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information.

Regions intends to fund its obligations primarily through cash generated from normal operations. In addition to these obligations, Regions has obligations related to potential litigation contingencies. See Note 24 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Company’s funding requirements.

Assets, consisting principally of loans and securities, are funded by customer deposits, borrowed funds and stockholders’ equity. Regions’ goal in liquidity management is to satisfy the cash flow requirements of depositors and borrowers, while at the same time meeting the Company’s cash flow needs. Having and using various sources of liquidity to satisfy the Company’s funding requirements is important.

In order to ensure an appropriate level of liquidity is maintained, Regions performs specific procedures including scenario analyses and stress testing at the bank, holding company, and affiliate levels. Regions' liquidity policy requires the holding company to maintain cash sufficient to cover the greater of (1) 18 months of debt service and other cash needs or (2) a minimum cash balance of $500 million. Compliance with the holding company cash requirements is reported to the Risk Committee of the Board on a quarterly basis. Regions also has minimum liquidity requirements for the Bank and subsidiaries. The Bank's funding and contingency planning does not currently include any reliance on short-term unsecured sources. Risk limits are established within the Company's ALCO, which regularly reviews compliance with the established limits. 

The securities portfolio is one of Regions’ primary sources of liquidity. Proceeds from maturities and principal and interest payments of securities provide a constant flow of funds available for cash needs (see Note 4 “Securities” to the consolidated financial statements). The agency guaranteed mortgage-backed securities portfolio is another source of liquidity in various secured borrowing capacities.

Maturities in the loan portfolio also provide a steady flow of funds. Additional funds are provided from payments on consumer loans and one-to-four family residential first mortgage loans. Regions’ liquidity is further enhanced by its relatively stable customer 

85

Table of Contents 

deposit base. Liquidity needs can also be met by borrowing funds in state and national money markets, although Regions does not currently rely on short-term unsecured wholesale market funding. 

The balance with the Federal Reserve Bank is the primary component of the balance sheet line item, “interest-bearing deposits in other banks.” At December 31, 2015, Regions had approximately $3.9 billion in cash on deposit with the Federal Reserve, up approximately 71 percent from 2014. However, the average balance held with the Federal Reserve was approximately $2.6 billion during 2015, down approximately 10 percent compared to the average balance held during 2014.

Regions’ borrowing availability with the Federal Reserve Bank as of December 31, 2015, based on assets pledged as collateral on that date, was $21.5 billion.

Regions’ financing arrangement with the FHLB adds additional flexibility in managing the Company's liquidity position. As of December 31, 2015, Regions’ outstanding balance of FHLB borrowings was $5.3 billion and its total borrowing capacity from the FHLB totaled $12.1 billion. FHLB borrowing capacity is contingent on the amount of collateral pledged to the FHLB. Regions Bank pledged certain residential first mortgage loans on one-to-four family dwellings and home equity lines of credit as collateral for the FHLB advances outstanding. Additionally, investment in FHLB stock is required in relation to the level of outstanding borrowings. Refer to Note 8 "Other Earning Assets" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. The FHLB has been and is expected to continue to be a reliable and economical source of funding.

Regions maintains a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that can be utilized by Regions to issue various debt and/or equity securities. Regions may also issue bank notes from time to time, either as part of a bank note program or as stand-alone issuances. Refer to Note 13 "Long-Term Borrowings" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 

Regions may, from time to time, consider opportunistically retiring outstanding issued securities, including subordinated debt in privately negotiated or open market transactions for cash or common shares. Regulatory approval would be required for retirement of some instruments.

Table 26—Contractual Obligations 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

_________

(1)See Note 24 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for the Company’s commercial commitments at December 31, 2015.

(2)Deposits with indeterminable maturity include non-interest bearing demand, savings, interest-bearing transaction accounts and money market accounts.

(3)Amounts only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified pension plan and postretirement health care plan.

(4)Commitments to fund low income housing partnerships includes commitments to make future investments, short-term construction loans and letters of credit, as well as the funded portions of these loans and letters of credit. All of these items are short-term in nature and the majority do not have defined maturity dates. Therefore, they have all been considered due on demand, maturing one year or less. See Note 2 "Variable Interest Entities" to the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

(5)Includes liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $38 million and tax-related interest and penalties of $3 million. See Note 20 “Income Taxes” to the consolidated financial statements.

(6)See Note 24 “Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees” to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the indemnification obligation to Raymond James, and the rationale for the expected payment timeframe.

86

Table of Contents 

CREDIT RISK

Regions’ objective regarding credit risk is to maintain a high-quality credit portfolio that provides for stable credit costs with acceptable volatility through an economic cycle. Regions has a diversified loan portfolio in terms of product type, collateral and geography. See the “Portfolio Characteristics” section found earlier in this report for further information. 

Management Process

Regions employs a credit risk management process in the second line of defense which is driven by a strong credit culture. This culture includes defined policies, which provide for a consistent and prudent approach to underwriting and credit approval, accountability, and reporting to manage credit risk in the loan portfolio. Within Credit Risk Management, procedures exist that elevate the approval requirements as credits become larger and more complex. Generally, consumer credits and smaller commercial credits are centrally underwritten based on credit matrices and policies that are modified as appropriate. Larger commercial and investor real estate transactions are individually underwritten, risk-rated, approved and monitored.

Responsibility and accountability for adherence to underwriting policies and accurate risk ratings lies with the first line of defense with oversight from Credit Risk Management. For consumer and small business portfolios, the credit risk management process focuses on managing customers who become delinquent in their payments and managing performance of the credit scorecards, which are periodically adjusted based on actual credit performance. The Credit Risk Management division works with commercial relationship teams to analyze and underwrite new business opportunities, manage the overall loan portfolio, and perform ongoing credit servicing activities utilizing a risk-based approach which incorporates quantitative and qualitative factors.

To ensure problem commercial credits are identified on a timely basis, several specific portfolio reviews occur each quarter to assess the larger adversely rated credits for accrual status and, if necessary, to ensure such individual credits are transferred to Regions’ Problem Asset Management division, which specializes in managing distressed credit exposures.

There are also separate and independent commercial credit, business banking and private wealth management credit, and consumer credit risk management organizational groups. These second line of defense functions oversee the risk-taking activities and assess the risks and issues of the first line of defense. This oversight includes the review and approval of new business and ongoing assessments of existing loans in the portfolio, provides for more accurate risk ratings, aids in the timely identification of problem credits, and provides oversight for the Chief Credit Officer on conditions and trends in the credit portfolios.

Credit quality and trends in the loan portfolio are measured and monitored regularly and detailed reports by product, business unit and geography are reviewed by business group personnel and the Chief Credit Officer. The Chief Credit Officer reviews summaries of these credit reports with executive management and the Board. Finally, the Credit Risk Review function provides ongoing oversight, as a third line of defense function, of the credit portfolios to ensure policies are followed, credits are properly risk-rated and that key credit control processes are functioning as intended.

Risk Characteristics of the Loan Portfolio

In order to assess the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio, Regions considers the current U.S. economic environment and that of its primary banking markets, as well as risk factors within the major categories of loans. See Table 9 "Loan Portfolio" and the related "Portfolio Characteristics" discussion found earlier in this report for further information on the major categories of loans.

Economic Environment in Regions’ Banking Markets 

One of the primary factors influencing the credit performance of Regions’ loan portfolio is the overall economic environment in the U.S. and the primary markets in which it operates. In 2015 the U.S. economy experienced a continuation of the steady but modest growth that has prevailed since the end of the 2007 to 2009 recession. Preliminary data show real GDP growth of 2.4 percent for 2015 as a whole. Unusually harsh winter weather and the adverse economy-wide impacts of the West Coast port strike led to a contraction in real GDP in the first quarter of 2015. Growth in the fourth quarter of 2015 slowed significantly primarily due to an ongoing inventory correction in the private non-farm business sector, while growth in the middle two quarters of 2015 was more robust. Despite the quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in top-line real GDP growth, growth in real private domestic demand was far more stable and topped 3.0 percent for 2015 as a whole. 

There were, however, persistent headwinds for growth in 2015 and these headwinds are expected to remain drags on growth over much of 2016. The energy sector continues to struggle under the weight of sharp price declines, which has led to cutbacks in planned capital expenditures and significant reductions in industry headcounts. The impacts of sharply lower energy prices are felt among energy producers, energy service providers and manufacturers of energy-related equipment and machinery. Additionally, a weak global growth environment has led to declines in exports of U.S. goods, which are made more expensive in global markets by a stronger U.S. dollar. This has been a persistent drag on the manufacturing sector, with the notable exception of manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts. 

Steady growth in consumer spending, residential investment, and business investment offset the weakness from energy and non-auto manufacturing in 2015. The combination of persistently low inflation and steady improvement in labor market conditions led to 2015 being the strongest year for growth in inflation adjusted disposable personal income since 2006, which was also the 

87

Table of Contents 

case for growth in inflation adjusted consumer spending. The housing market experienced further steady, but somewhat slow, growth in single family construction and sales, while multi-family construction experienced robust growth. Business investment in equipment and machinery grew at a modest rate in 2015. While growth in business investment spending is expected to be uneven over the course of 2016, and thereby provide less support for top-line growth, inflation adjusted consumer spending and residential investment will remain key drivers of overall growth. Additionally, after being a persistent drag on growth since the end of the 2007 to 2009 recession, government spending has transitioned to being a modest support for growth.

The FOMC felt confident enough in the progress made to date coupled with their expectation of further progress over coming quarters to increase the federal funds rate at their December 2015 meeting. Information released in conjunction with that meeting showed the collective expectation that there would be four additional federal funds rate hikes over the course of 2016. At present, however, the financial markets have priced in a much more modest trajectory of federal funds rate increases, expecting only two 25-basis point hikes over the course of 2016. One key factor in these divergent views is inflation expectations, with market participants being far less confident than the FOMC that inflation will steadily move towards the FOMC’s 2.0 percent target range over coming quarters.

Real growth in the 2 percent to 2.5 percent range is expected for 2016, supported by growth in domestic demand and the government sector while net exports and energy remain drags. But, while the baseline forecast calls for above-trend economic growth in the U.S. in 2016, Regions' assessment of risks to the baseline forecast shows risks to be tilted to the downside, with most of the risks stemming from a weak global growth environment and the potential for considerable volatility in global financial markets to the extent the Federal Reserve and foreign central banks follow divergent policy paths over the course of 2016. Uneven rates of economic growth across the globe and divergent central bank policy paths could foster considerable volatility in capital flows, equity prices, and returns on asset prices over the course of 2016. Thus, while long-term interest rates are expected to trend mildly higher in 2016, any such increase will probably not occur on a straight-line path. 

Within the Regions footprint, rates of job, income, and overall economic growth have been and are expected to remain broadly consistent with those seen nationally. There are, however, differences in rates of growth among the individual states and metropolitan areas across the footprint. Markets with exposure to energy and trade underperformed in 2015 and are likely to do so again in 2016. In contrast, those markets with more diverse economies and positive demographic trends and those markets with higher exposure to healthcare, technology, and transportation have been and are expected to remain among the better performing markets within Regions' footprint. Housing market activity appears to be picking up at a steady pace within Regions' footprint. As is the case for the U.S. as a whole, multi-family construction has rebounded far more rapidly than has single family construction. Over the course of 2016, it is expected there will be a better balance between single family and multi-family construction, particularly to the extent improved job and income growth along with still favorable mortgage interest rates stimulate demand for home purchases.

In summation, real GDP growth is expected to be in the 2 percent to 2.5 percent range for 2016 and 2017 as a whole. It is expected that in both years growth in real private domestic demand will be greater than the rate of growth in top-line real GDP. While Regions expects moderate growth in the domestic economy in 2016, a highly uncertain global growth outlook poses a downside risk to the U.S. economy, and global factors will continue to weigh on inflation and long-term interest rates in the U.S. The continuing challenge of a prolonged low interest rate environment is expected in 2016 with only gradual increases in the federal funds rate expected over the course of the year while global factors are expected to weigh on long-term rates. 

Allowance for Credit Losses

The allowance for credit losses ("allowance") consists of two components: the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded credit commitments. The allowance represents management’s estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the loan and credit commitment portfolios as of period end. 

Allowance Process—Factors considered by management in determining the adequacy of the allowance include, but are not limited to: 1) detailed reviews of individual loans; 2) historical and current trends in gross and net loan charge-offs for the various classes of loans evaluated; 3) the Company’s policies relating to delinquent loans and charge-offs; 4) the level of the allowance in relation to total loans and to historical loss levels; 5) levels and trends in non-performing, criticized, classified and past due loans; 6) collateral values of properties securing loans; 7) the composition of the loan portfolio, including unfunded credit commitments; 8) management’s analysis of current economic conditions; 9) migration of loans between risk rating categories; and 10) estimation of inherent credit losses in the portfolio.

Commercial, Business Banking, Private Wealth, and Consumer Credit Risk Management and Problem Asset Management are all involved in the credit risk management process to assess the accuracy of risk ratings, the quality of the portfolio and the estimation of inherent credit losses in the loan portfolio. This comprehensive process also assists in the prompt identification of problem credits. The Company has taken a number of measures to manage the portfolios and reduce risk, particularly in the more problematic portfolios. In addition, a strong Customer Assistance Program for consumer lending is in place which educates customers about options and initiates early contact with customers to discuss solutions when a loan first becomes delinquent.

In support of collateral values, Regions obtains updated valuations for non-performing loans on at least an annual basis. For real estate loans that are individually identified for impairment, those valuations are currently discounted from the most recent 

88

Table of Contents 

appraisal to consider continued declines in property values. The discounted valuations are utilized in the measurement of the level of impairment in the allowance calculation. For loans that are not individually identified for impairment and secured by real estate, Regions considers the impact of declines in real estate valuations in the loss given default estimates within the allowance calculation.

As a matter of business practice, Regions may require some form of credit support, such as a guarantee. Guarantees are legally binding and entered into simultaneously with the primary loan agreements. Regions underwrites the ability of each guarantor to perform under its guarantee in the same manner and to the same extent as would be required to underwrite the repayment plan of a direct obligor. This entails obtaining sufficient information on the guarantor, including financial and operating information, to sufficiently measure the guarantor’s ability to perform under the guarantee. Evaluation of guarantors’ ability and willingness to pay is considered as part of the risk rating process, which provides the basis for the allowance for loan losses for the commercial and investor real estate portfolios. In some cases, the credit support provided by the guarantor is integral to the risk rating. In concluding that the risk rating is appropriate, Regions considers a number of factors including whether underlying cash flow is adequate to service the debt, payment history, and whether there is appropriate guarantor support. Accordingly, Regions has concluded that the impact of credit support provided by guarantors has been appropriately considered in the calculation and assessment of the allowance for loan losses.

For a discussion of the methodology used to calculate the allowance for credit losses refer to Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 6 “Allowance for Credit Losses” to the consolidated financial statements. Details regarding the allowance for credit losses, including an analysis of activity from the previous year’s total, are included in Table 15 “Allowance for Credit Losses.” Also, refer to Table 16 “Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses” for details pertaining to management’s allocation of the allowance for loan losses to each loan category.

Counterparty Risk

Counterparty risk within Regions Bank is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction or contract could be unable or unwilling to fulfill its contractual or legal obligations. Exposure may be to a financial institution (such as commercial banks, insurance companies, broker dealers, etc.) or a corporate client. 

Regions has a centralized approach to approval, management, and monitoring of counterparty exposure. Counterparty Risk Management, housed within Capital Markets Risk Management, is responsible for the independent credit risk management of financial institution counterparties and their affiliates. Market Risk Management is responsible for the suitability, measurement, and stress testing of counterparty exposures. Business Services Credit is responsible for the independent credit risk management of client side counterparties.

Financial institution exposure may result from a variety of transaction types generated in one or more departments of the Company. Exposure limits are established to manage the exposure generated by various areas of the Company. Counterparty client credit risk arises when Regions sells a risk management product to hedge risks in the client’s business. Exposures to counterparties are aggregated across departments and regularly reported to senior management.

INFORMATION SECURITY RISK

Operational risks comprise several elements, including information security risks. Information security risks such as evolving and adaptive cyber attacks, for large financial institutions such as Regions, have generally increased in recent years and will continue to increase in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of mobile devices, the internet, and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists and other external parties or fraud on the part of employees. Regions spends significant resources to identify and mitigate threats to the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our information systems. 

Regions is a member of the FS-ISAC. The FS-ISAC is a nonprofit organization and is funded entirely by its member firms and sponsors. The overall objective of FS-ISAC is to protect the financial services sector against cyber and physical threats and risk. It acts as a trusted third party that provides anonymity to allow members to submit threat, vulnerability and incident information in a non-attributable and trusted manner so information that would normally not be shared is instead provided for the good of the membership. In addition to FS-ISAC, Regions is a member of BITS, the technology arm of the Financial Services Roundtable. BITS serves the financial community and its members by providing industry best practices on a variety of security and fraud topics.

Even if Regions successfully prevents data breaches to its own networks, the Company may still incur losses that result from customers' account information obtained through breaches of retailers' networks where customers have transacted business. The fraud losses, as well as the costs of investigations and re-issuing new customer cards impact Regions' financial results. In addition, Regions also relies on some vendors to provide certain components of our business infrastructure, which may also increase information security risk.

Regions will continue to commit the resources necessary to mitigate these growing risks, as well as continue to develop and enhance controls, processes and systems to protect our networks, computers, and data from attacks or unauthorized access in addition to our strong commitment to comprehensive risk management and oversight of third-party relationships involving vendors. Moreover, Regions has contracts with vendors to provide denial of service mitigation and these vendors have also continued to commit the necessary resources to support Regions in the event of an attack. Even though Regions devotes significant resources 

89

Table of Contents 

to combat cyber security risks, there is no guarantee that these measures will provide absolute security. As an additional security measure, Regions has placed a computer forensics firm and an industry-leading consulting firm on retainer in case of a breach event.

REGULATORY RISK

In 2014, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta began a regularly scheduled CRA examination of Regions Bank covering 2012 and 2013 performance. This review included, among other things, a review of Regions Bank's previously disclosed public consent orders. As a result of the examination, the results of which were communicated during the fourth quarter of 2015, Regions Bank received "High Satisfactory" ratings on its CRA components, but its overall CRA rating was downgraded from "Satisfactory" to “Needs to Improve.” The downgrade was attributed to the matters underlying Regions Bank’s April 2015 public consent order with the CFPB related to overdrafts and Regulation E. Regions Bank had self-reported these matters and provided remuneration during 2011 and 2012. This downgrade imposes restrictions on the Company's ability to undertake certain activities, including mergers and acquisitions of insured depository institutions and applications to open branches or certain other facilities until such time as the rating is improved. Regions Bank's next CRA examination is expected to commence during 2016, although the actual timing of the examination and any results therefrom will not be known until later.

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE AND INTERNAL CONTROLS

Regions has always maintained internal controls over financial reporting, which generally include those controls relating to the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Regions’ process for evaluating internal controls over financial reporting starts with understanding the risks facing each of its functions and areas, how those risks are controlled or mitigated, and how management monitors those controls to ensure that they are in place and effective. These risks, control procedures and monitoring tools are documented in a standard format. This format not only documents the internal control structures over all significant accounts, but also places responsibility on management for establishing feedback mechanisms to ensure that controls are effective.

Regions has also established processes to ensure appropriate disclosure controls and procedures are maintained. These controls and procedures as defined by the SEC are generally designed to ensure that financial and non-financial information required to be disclosed in reports filed with the SEC is reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms, and that such information is communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.

Regions’ Disclosure Review Committee, which includes representatives from the legal, risk management, accounting, investor relations, treasury and audit departments, meets quarterly to review recent internal and external events to determine whether all appropriate disclosures have been made in reports filed with the SEC. In addition, the CEO and CFO meet quarterly with the SEC Filings Review Committee, which includes senior representatives from accounting, legal, risk management, audit, treasury, and the business groups. The SEC Filings Review Committee reviews certain reports to be filed with the SEC, including Forms 10-K and 10-Q and evaluates the adequacy and accuracy of the disclosures. As part of this process, certifications of internal control effectiveness are obtained from accounting, treasury, legal, audit, risk management, and the business groups. These certifications are reviewed and presented to the CEO and CFO as support of the Company’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting. The Form 10-K is presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors for approval, and the Forms 10-Q are reviewed by the Audit Committee. Financial results and other financial information are also reviewed with the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.

As required by applicable regulatory pronouncements, the CEO and the CFO review and make various certifications regarding the accuracy of Regions’ periodic public reports filed with the SEC, as well as the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. With the assistance of the financial review committees noted in the previous paragraph, Regions will continue to assess and monitor disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and will make refinements as necessary.

COMPARISON OF 2014 WITH 2013—CONTINUING OPERATIONS

Regions reported net income available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.79 per diluted common share, in 2014 compared to $1.1 billion, or $0.75 per diluted share, in 2013. Regions reported income from continuing operations available to common shareholders of $1.1 billion, or $0.78 per diluted common share, in 2014 compared to $1.1 billion, or $0.76 per diluted share, in 2013. 

Net interest income and other financing income from continuing operations was $3.3 billion in both 2014 and 2013. The net interest margin from continuing operations (taxable-equivalent basis) was 3.21 percent in 2014, compared to 3.20 percent during 2013. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a favorable mix shift from higher-cost time deposits to lower-cost deposit products, resulting in deposit costs decreasing to 0.11 percent in 2014 from 0.15 percent in 2013. 

Non-interest income from continuing operations decreased $193 million to $1.9 billion in 2014 compared to 2013. The year-over-year decrease was due to a decrease in mortgage income, service charges on deposits, leveraged lease termination gains and gain on sale of other assets. See Table 5 "Non-Interest Income from Continuing Operations" for additional information.

90

Table of Contents 

In 2014, mortgage income decreased $87 million, or 37 percent to $149 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower mortgage production as consumer demand for residential mortgage loans slowed due to rising mortgage interest rates. A decline in the market valuation of the residential mortgage servicing portfolio, net of hedging activity, also contributed to the year-over-year decline.

Service charges on deposit accounts decreased $39 million in 2014 compared to 2013. The decline in 2014 compared to 2013 was primarily driven by continued changes in customer behavior, an $8 million reserve for customer reimbursements recorded in 2014, and the Company's decision to transition out of certain small credit product offerings.

Leveraged lease termination gains decreased $29 million in 2014 compared to 2013. Regions terminated certain leveraged leases in 2014 and 2013. The related net termination gains were largely offset by increases in income tax expense.

During 2013, the Company divested a non-core portion of a Wealth Management business which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $24 million.

Non-interest expense from continuing operations decreased $124 million in 2014 compared to 2013. Non-interest expense in 2014 included a $35 million gain on sale of TDRs held for sale. Additional decreases in non-interest expense in 2014 included decreases of $50 million in FDIC insurance assessments, $61 million in loss on early extinguishment of debt and $53 million in other miscellaneous expenses. These decreases were offset by increases of $45 million in professional, legal and regulatory expenses, $25 million in outside services, and $11 million in branch consolidation, property and equipment charges. See Table 6 “Non-Interest Expense from Continuing Operations” for additional information.

During the fourth quarter of 2013, Regions transferred approximately $535 million of certain primarily accruing residential first mortgage loans classified as TDRs to loans held for sale. During the first quarter of 2014, substantially all of these loans were sold resulting in a $35 million net gain.

FDIC insurance assessments decreased $50 million, or 40 percent, in 2014. The decrease is primarily due to as a result of continued improvement in performance metrics and a reduction in Regions' risk profile including a decline in higher risk loans, all of which impact the fee calculation. 

During 2013, the Company incurred $61 million in losses related to the early extinguishment of certain other long-term debt, the tender or redemption of certain senior debt securities and preferred stock, as well as the redemption of selected trust preferred securities. There were no debt extinguishments in 2014. 

Other miscellaneous expenses decreased $53 million, or approximately 11 percent, in 2014. Other miscellaneous expenses include expenses related to communications, postage, supplies, certain credit-related costs, foreclosed property expenses, amortization of other intangibles and mortgage repurchase costs. Other miscellaneous expenses decreased in 2014 as compared to 2013 primarily due to declines in mortgage repurchase costs reflecting lower losses.

Professional, legal, and regulatory expenses increased $45 million or 24 percent in 2014, primarily due to $100 million of expense that was recorded in 2014 for contingent legal and regulatory items related to previously disclosed matters. In 2013, a non-tax deductible regulatory charge of $58 million was recorded related to previously disclosed inquiries from government authorities. The matter was settled in 2014 for $7 million less than originally estimated and a corresponding recovery was recognized. 

Outside services increased $25 million or 24 percent during 2014 when compared to 2013 primarily due to the use of temporary staffing for compliance and regulatory related projects as well as increased servicing costs related to continued purchases of indirect loans from a third party.

Branch consolidation, property and equipment charges increased $11 million to $16 million in 2014. The increase was due to charges related to valuation adjustments on owned branch properties that were recognized. The charges were a result of Regions' decision to consolidate 30 branches in late 2013 and 50 branches in the fourth quarter of 2014. 

The Company’s income tax expense for 2014 was $548 million compared to $561 million in 2013, resulting in an effective tax rate of 32.6 percent and 33.7 percent, respectively. 

At December 31, 2014, the allowance for loan losses totaled $1.1 billion or 1.43 percent of total loans, net of unearned income compared to $1.3 billion or 1.80 percent at year-end 2013. Net charge-offs totaled $307 million, or 0.40 percent of average loans in 2014 compared to $716 million, or 0.96 percent of average loans in 2013. Net charge-offs were lower across most major categories when comparing 2014 to the prior year primarily due to fundamental improvement in credit performance. During 2014, the provision for loan losses was $69 million. This compares to a provision for loan losses of $138 million in 2013. Non-performing assets decreased from $1.3 billion at December 31, 2013, to $991 million at December 31, 2014, reflecting management’s continuing efforts to work through problem assets and reduce the riskiest exposures.

91

Table of Contents 

Table 27—Quarterly Results of Operations

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]________

(1)Quarterly amounts may not add to year-to-date amounts due to rounding.

(2)High and low market prices are based on intraday sales prices.

92

Table of Contents 

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data