ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by us, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. The following discussion sets forth some of the more important risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. However, other factors, besides those discussed below or elsewhere in this or other of our reports filed or furnished with the SEC, also could adversely affect our business or results. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in this document are a complete set of all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.”  

Business Combination Risks  

We may not realize the expected financial benefits from the merger between The Bank of New York Co. and Mellon.  

We conduct the combined businesses previously conducted by The Bank of New York Co. and Mellon. These businesses were combined in a merger which was consummated on July 1, 2007. Achieving the expected benefits of the combination of these businesses will require us to retain clients of both of the predecessor businesses, retain key employees of both of the predecessor businesses and capitalize upon certain revenue synergies. Failure to accomplish these goals could adversely affect our business. In addition, the success of the combination of these businesses will depend in part 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 13  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 on our ability to realize certain cost savings. If we are not able to do so, the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. It is possible that the processes of integration of the predecessor businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of the predecessor businesses or inconsistencies in technologies, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients and employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the business combination and could reduce our earnings. The integration of the predecessor businesses will require a significant commitment of time and resources by our management and other personnel, which could divert the attention of management from other tasks.  

We may not realize the expected financial benefits from the acquisition of the corporate trust business of JP Morgan Chase & Co. (the “Acquired Corporate Trust Business”).  

We purchased the Acquired Corporate Trust Business on October 1, 2006. Achieving the expected benefits of this acquisition will require us to retain a substantial portion of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business’s client base, increase the revenue growth rate of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business, retain key employees of the Acquired Corporate Trust Business and realize certain anticipated cost savings. If we are unable to integrate the Acquired Corporate Trust Business successfully, then we may fail to realize the anticipated synergies and growth opportunities or achieve the cost savings and revenue growth we expect from the acquisition.  

Other acquisitions also pose integration risks.  

From time to time, to achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in other companies or businesses, and may do so in the future. Each of these poses integration challenges similar to those described above. We cannot assure you that we will realize, when anticipated or at all, the positive benefits expected as a result of our acquisitions or that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated.  

Risks Related to Our Business  

Global Trends—Our business could be adversely affected if current global trends do not continue or if global business and economic conditions weaken.  

Our businesses benefit from certain global trends, such as the growth of financial assets, creation of new securities, financial services industry consolidation, rapid technological change, globalization of investment activities, structural changes to financial markets including consolidation, shortened settlement cycles, straight-through processing requirements, and increased demand for outsourcing. We believe that these long-term trends all tend to increase the demand for our products and services around the world. If these trends do not continue, we may lose customers or lose revenue associated with products that may no longer be in demand which may adversely affect our revenue growth.  

We expect that our businesses will benefit from worldwide pension reform that creates additional pools of assets that use custody and related services and investment management services. If the pace of pension reform and resulting programs, including growth of public and private pension plans, slows down or if substantial pension reform does not occur, particularly in markets in which we are active, then our revenue growth may be adversely affected.  

In addition, unexpected sustained weakness in business and economic conditions in any or all of the domestic or international financial markets in which we conduct our business could have one or more of the following effects:  

   •    negative trends in savings rates or in individuals’ investment preferences causing customers to become risk adverse could result in decreased demand for investment products or services that we offer;  

   •    slowed or halted inflows to pension plans could decrease demand for custody and related services and investment management services;  

   •    lower credit quality of our clients could result in increased credit costs and higher provision for credit losses;  

   •    credit deterioration in investment securities held by us, rating agency downgrades for such securities or other market factors could result in us having to recognize a non-temporary 

14 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 impairment in the value of such investment securities, with a corresponding charge against earnings; and  

   •    disruptions in the fixed-income markets could result in a loss of liquidity for an asset-backed commercial paper conduit with which we have a liquidity facility, which could result in such facility being drawn upon.  

Competition—We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

Many businesses in which we operate are intensely competitive around the world. Other domestic and international banks and financial service companies such as trading firms, broker dealers, investment banks, specialized processing companies, outsourcing companies, data processing companies and asset managers aggressively compete with us for fee-based business. We also face competition from both unregulated and regulated financial services organizations such as mutual funds, insurance companies, credit unions, money market funds and investment counseling firms, whose products and services span the local, national and global markets in which we conduct operations. In addition, insurance companies, investment counseling firms, brokerage houses and other business firms and individuals offer active competition for personal trust services and investment counseling services.  

Pricing pressures, as a result of the ability of competitors to offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price and customer pricing reviews, may result in a reduction in the price we can charge for our products and services which would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  

Our internal strategies and forecasts assume a growing client base and increasing client usage of our services. A decline in the pace at which we attract new clients and a decline of the pace at which existing and new clients use additional services and assign additional assets to us for management or custody would adversely affect our future results of operations. A decline in the rate at which our clients outsource functions, such as their internal accounting activities, would also adversely affect our results of operations.  

Our ability to successfully compete for business depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies. Rapid technological change in the financial services industry, together with competitive pressures, require us to make significant and ongoing investments to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices. We cannot provide any assurance that our technology spending will achieve gains in competitiveness or profitability, and the costs we incur in product development could be substantial. Accordingly, we could incur substantial development costs without achieving corresponding gains in profitability.  

Dependence on fee-based business—We are dependent on fee-based business for a substantial majority of our revenue and our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a slowing in capital market activity, significant declines in market values or negative trends in savings rates or in individual investment preferences.  

Our principal operational focus is on fee-based business, as distinct from commercial banking institutions that earn most of their revenues from traditional interest-generating products and services. We have redeployed our assets away from traditional retail banking to concentrate our resources further on fee-based businesses, including cash management, custody, mutual fund services, unit investment trusts, corporate trust, depositary receipts, stock transfer, securities execution and clearance, collateral management, and asset management.  

Fees for many of our products and services are based on the volume of transactions processed, the market value of assets managed and administered, securities lending volume and spreads, and fees for other services rendered. Corporate actions, cross-border investing, global mergers and acquisitions activity, new debt and equity issuances, and secondary trading volumes all affect the level of our revenues.  

Asset-based fees are typically determined on a sliding scale so that, as the value of a client portfolio grows, we receive a smaller percentage of the increasing value as fee income. This is particularly important to our asset management, global funds services and global custody businesses. Significant declines in the values of capital assets would reduce 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 15  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 the market value of some of the assets that we manage and administer and result in a corresponding decrease in the amount of fees we receive and therefore would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, significant declines in the volume of capital markets activity would reduce the number of transactions we process and the amount of securities lending we do and therefore would also have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business generally benefits when individuals invest their savings in mutual funds and other collective funds, in defined benefit plans, unit investment trusts or exchange traded funds. If there is a decline in the savings rates of individuals, or if there is a change in investment preferences that leads to less investment in mutual funds, other collective funds and defined contribution plans, our revenues could be adversely affected.  

Our fee-based revenues could be adversely affected by a stable exchange-rate environment or decreased cross-border investing activity.  

The degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect the amount of our foreign exchange trading revenue. Most of our foreign exchange revenue is derived from our securities servicing client base. Activity levels and spreads are generally higher when there is more volatility. Accordingly, we benefit from currency volatility and our foreign exchange revenue is likely to decrease during times of decreased currency volatility.  

Our future revenue may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or decreases in cross-border or other investments made by our clients. Economic and political uncertainties resulting from terrorist attacks, military actions or other events, including changes in laws or regulations governing cross-border transactions, such as currency controls, could result in decreased cross-border investment activity. Decreased cross-border investing could lead to decreased demand for investor services that we provide.  

The trend towards use of electronic trade networks instead of traditional modes of exchange may result in unfavorable pressure on our foreign exchange business which could adversely impact our foreign exchange revenue.  

Our ability to retain existing business and obtain new business is dependent on our consistent execution of the fee-based services we perform. 

We provide custody, accounting, daily pricing and administration, master trust and master custody, investment management, trustee and recordkeeping, foreign exchange, securities lending, securities execution and clearance, correspondent clearing, stock transfer, cash management, trading and information services to clients worldwide. Assets under custody and assets under management are held by us in a custodial or fiduciary capacity and are not included in our assets. If we fail to perform these services in a manner consistent with our fiduciary, custodial and other obligations, existing and potential clients may lose confidence in our ability to properly perform these services and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, any such failure may result in contingent liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or losses that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.  

Interest Rate Environment—Our revenues and profits are sensitive to changes in interest rates.  

Our net interest income and cash flows are sensitive to interest rate changes, changes in valuations in the debt or equity markets and changes in customer credit quality, over which we have no control. Our net interest income is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets, such as the loans we make and the securities we hold in our investment portfolio, and the interest expense incurred on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed money. We also earn net interest income on interest-free funds we hold.  

As a result of changes in interest rates, we may experience one or more of the following effects:  

   •    changes in net interest income depending on our balance sheet position at the time of change. See discussion under “Asset/Liability Management” elsewhere in this report;  

   •    reduced credit demand due to sustained higher interest rates;  

   •    an increased number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults and more nonperforming assets and net charge-offs as a result of abrupt increases in interest rates, including with respect to financial guaranty monoline insurers as to which we have credit exposure;  

   •    increased borrowing costs and reduced access to the capital markets caused by unfavorable financial conditions; 

16 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

   •    sustained lower interest rates, which may reduce the spread we earn on deposits;  

   •    a decline in the value of our fixed-income investment portfolio as a result of increasing interest rates; and  

   •    decreased fee-based revenues due to a slowing of capital market activity or significant declines in market value.  

A more detailed discussion of the interest rate and market risks we face is contained in the Risk Management section of the Annual Report.  

Capital Adequacy—We are subject to capital adequacy guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.  

Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, BNY Mellon and our subsidiary banks and broker-dealers must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines. If BNY Mellon, its subsidiary banks, or broker-dealers failed to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, their respective financial conditions would be materially and adversely affected. The regulatory accords on international banking institutions to be reached by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and implemented by the Federal Reserve may require us and our subsidiary banks to satisfy additional, more stringent, capital adequacy standards. We cannot fully predict the final form of, or the effects of, the regulatory accords or implementing regulations. Failure by our principal subsidiary banks and broker-dealer subsidiaries to maintain their status as “well capitalized” and “well managed,” if unremedied over a period of time, would cause us to lose our status as a financial holding company and could affect the confidence of clients in us, thus also compromising our competitive position. Financial holding companies are permitted to engage in a wide range of financial activities, insurance, merchant banking and real estate investment that are not permissible for other bank holding companies and are also eligible for a streamlined review process for proposed acquisitions. See “Supervision and Regulation” above and “Capital—Capital Framework” and “Capital—Capital Adequacy” in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.  

Access to Capital Markets—If our ability to access the capital markets is diminished, our business may be adversely affected.  

Our business is dependent in part on our ability to access successfully the capital markets on a regular basis. We rely on access to both short-term money markets and long-term capital markets as significant sources of liquidity to the extent liquidity requirements are not satisfied by the cash flow from our consolidated operations. Events or circumstances, such as rising interest rates, market disruptions or an adverse change in our credit ratings, or loss of confidence of debt purchasers or counterparties in us or in the funds markets, could limit our access to capital markets, increase our cost of borrowing, adversely affect our liquidity, or impair our ability to execute our business plan.  

We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision, including regulation and supervision by non-U.S. jurisdictions.  

We operate in a highly regulated environment, being subject to a comprehensive statutory regulatory regime as well as oversight by governmental agencies. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Laws, regulations or policies, including accounting standards and interpretations, currently affecting us and our subsidiaries may change at any time. Regulatory authorities may also change their interpretation of these statutes and regulations. Therefore, our business may be adversely affected by future changes in laws, regulations, policies or interpretations or regulatory approaches to compliance and enforcement. See “Supervision and Regulation” above. Some of the governmental authorities which may assert jurisdictional regulatory authority over us are located in and operate under jurisdictions outside the United States. Such jurisdictions may utilize legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. Among other things, litigation in foreign jurisdictions may be 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 17  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 decided much more quickly than in the U.S., trials may not involve testimony of witnesses who are in the courtroom and subject to cross-examination, and trials may be based solely on submission of written materials. These factors can make issues of regulatory compliance and legal proceedings more difficult to assess.  

Monetary and Other Governmental Policies—Our business is influenced by monetary and other governmental policies.  

The monetary, tax and other policies of the government and its agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance. Heightened regulatory scrutiny and increased sanctions, changes or potential changes in domestic and international legislation and regulation as well as domestic or international regulatory investigations impose compliance, legal, review and response costs that may impact our profitability and may allow additional competition, facilitate consolidation of competitors, or attract new competitors into our businesses. The cost of geographically diversifying and maintaining our facilities to comply with regulatory mandates necessarily results in additional costs. See “Supervision and Regulation” above.  

Operational Risk—We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing certain services, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  

We are exposed to operational risk as a result of providing various fee-based services including certain securities servicing, global payment services, private banking and asset management services. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from errors related to transaction processing, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, fraud by employees or persons outside the corporation or business interruption due to system failures or other events. We regularly assess and monitor operational risk in our business and provide for disaster and business recovery planning, including geographical diversification of our facilities; however, the occurrence of various events, including unforeseeable and unpreventable events such as hurricanes or other natural disasters, could still damage our physical facilities or our computer systems or software, cause delay or disruptions to operational functions, impair our clients, vendors and counterparties and negatively impact our results of operations. Operational risk also includes potential legal or regulatory actions that could arise as a result of noncompliance with applicable laws and regulatory requirements which 

 could have an adverse effect on our reputation. See “Risk Management” in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.  

Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented.  

Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security.  

We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies, procedures and technical safeguards designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Risk Management” in the Annual Report, which portion of the Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. 

18 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

Technology—We depend on technology and our intellectual property; if third parties misappropriate our intellectual property, our business may be adversely affected.  

We are dependent on technology because many of our products and services involve processing large volumes of data. Our technology platforms must therefore provide global capabilities and scale. Rapid technological changes require significant and ongoing investments in technology to develop competitive new products and services or adopt new technologies. Technological advances which result in lower transaction costs may adversely impact our revenues. In addition, unsuccessful implementation of technological upgrades and new products may adversely impact our ability to service and retain customers.  

Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened settlement cycles and straight-through-processing, will necessitate ongoing changes to our business and operations and will likely require additional investment in technology. Our financial performance depends in part on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies and to deliver these products and services to the market at a competitive price.  

We use trademark, trade secret, copyright and other proprietary rights and procedures to protect our intellectual property and technology resources. Despite our efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to prevent unauthorized use of our proprietary rights are sufficient to prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In addition, we cannot be sure that courts will adequately enforce contractual arrangements we have entered into to protect our proprietary technologies. If any of our proprietary information were misappropriated by or otherwise disclosed to our competitors, our competitive position could be adversely affected. We may incur substantial costs to defend ownership of our intellectual property or to replace misappropriated proprietary technology. If a third party were to assert a claim of infringement of our proprietary rights, obtained through patents or otherwise, against us with respect to one or more of our methods of doing business or conducting our 

operations, we could be required to spend significant amounts to defend such claims, develop alternative methods of operations, pay substantial money damages or obtain a license from the third party.  

Acts of Terrorism—Acts of terrorism may have a negative impact on our business.  

Acts of terrorism could have a significant impact on our business and operations. While we have in place business continuity and disaster recovery plans, acts of terrorism could still damage our facilities and disrupt or delay normal operations, and have a similar impact on our clients, suppliers, and counterparties. Acts of terrorism and global conflicts could also negatively impact the purchase of our products and services to the extent they resulted in reduced capital markets activity, lower asset price levels, or disruptions in general economic activity in the United States or abroad, or in financial market settlement functions. The war in Iraq, global conflicts, the national and global efforts to combat terrorism and other potential military activities and outbreaks of hostilities have affected and may further adversely affect economic growth, and may have other adverse effects on us in ways that we are necessarily unable to predict.  

Reputational and Legal Risk—Our business may be negatively affected by adverse publicity, regulatory actions or litigation with respect to us, other well-known companies and the financial services industry generally.  

Adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from our failure or perceived failure to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, actions of errant employees, financial reporting irregularities involving ourselves or other large and well known companies, increasing regulatory scrutiny of “know your customer,” anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist procedures and their effectiveness, regulatory investigations of the mutual fund industry, including mutual funds advised by us, and litigation that arises from the failure or perceived failure of us to comply with compliance policies and procedures, could result in increased regulatory supervision, affect our ability to attract and retain customers or maintain access to the capital markets, result in suits, enforcement actions, fines and penalties or have adverse effects on us in ways that are not predictable. Investigations by various federal and state regulatory agencies, the Department of Justice and state attorneys general, 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 19  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 and any related litigation, could have an adverse effect on investment activity generally and on us. Such investigations also may be initiated by, and other compliance requirements may be asserted by, jurisdictions outside the United States, utilizing legal principles and systems that differ materially from those encountered in the United States. See Item 3 of this Form 10-K.  

On Nov. 7, 2005, one of our principal banking subsidiaries, The Bank of New York, entered into a Non-Prosecution Agreement with the United States Attorney’s Offices for the Eastern and Southern districts of New York, which imposed a number of remedial steps and programs in connection with The Bank of New York’s anti-money laundering program. The agreement outlines a series of steps to strengthen and enhance The Bank of New York’s compliance practices, systems, controls and procedures and remains in effect for three years unless earlier terminated by the U.S. Attorney’s Offices. Failure to comply with the agreement could result in criminal prosecution for participation in alleged fraudulent activities and money laundering activities in 2002 and previously (in the case of the alleged fraudulent activities) and 1999 and previously (in the case of the alleged money laundering activities). Such prosecution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

On April 21, 2006, The Bank of New York entered into a formal written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Banking Department, which imposed a number of reporting requirements and controls in connection with The Bank of New York’s anti-money laundering program. The agreement outlines a series of steps to strengthen and enhance The Bank of New York’s compliance practices, systems, controls and procedures and remains in effect until terminated by the banking regulators. Failure to comply with the agreement could result in sanctions, money penalties and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  

On Aug. 17, 2006, one of our principal banking subsidiaries, Mellon Bank, N.A. (“Mellon Bank”), entered into a settlement agreement with the United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania relating to an April 2001 incident in Mellon Bank’s Pittsburgh IRS Processing Unit. Under the terms of the settlement, Mellon Bank 

 agreed to have an independent third party monitor compliance with the terms of the agreement for a three-year period. No monetary penalties or fines were imposed by the agreement although Mellon Bank reimbursed the federal government for $30 thousand of costs incurred by an outside vendor. If Mellon Bank complies with the terms of the agreement, the U.S. Attorney will not prosecute Mellon Bank. The agreement should not impair Mellon Bank’s ability to serve as a long-standing government contractor.  

Our subsidiaries are subject to claims and litigation pertaining to fiduciary responsibility.  

From time to time, customers of our subsidiaries may make claims and take legal action pertaining to performance of fiduciary responsibilities. Whether customer claims and legal action related to the subsidiary’s performance of its fiduciary responsibilities are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner favorable to the subsidiary they may result in material financial liability and materially impair the market perception of us and our products. In addition, in the performance of fiduciary duties or other contractual responsibilities, our subsidiaries may be required to withhold applicable taxes on income distributions to foreign and domestic persons. In the event such withholding was to be determined to have not been conducted in a manner supported by appropriate documentation, we could be subject to liability.  

New lines of business or new products and services may subject us to additional risks.  

From time to time, we may implement new lines of business or offer new products and services within existing lines of business. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. In developing and marketing new lines of business and/or new products and services, we may invest significant time and resources. Initial timetables for the introduction and development of new lines of business and/or new products or services may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible. 

20 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

We may not be able to attract and retain skilled people.  

Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.  

Tax Laws and Regulations—Tax law changes or challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions may adversely affect our net income, effective tax rate and our overall results of operations and financial condition.  

The U.S. Treasury Department and Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) have taken increasingly aggressive positions against certain corporate investment programs that either reduce or defer taxes. The IRS has challenged certain types of structured transactions including leasing investments referred to as LILOs, in which we engaged prior to mid-1999, and SILOs, in which we engaged prior to 2004. See Note 24 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which note is incorporated herein by reference.  

We have also entered into investments that produce synthetic fuel from coal by-products. Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code provides a tax credit for these types of transactions. The amount of the credit is dependent on the amount of synthetic fuel produced by these investments. The tax credits available under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code for the production and sale of synthetic fuel produced in any given year are phased out if the reference price of a barrel of oil for that year rises above a specified, inflation-adjusted price range.  

To manage the exposure to oil prices in 2007, we entered into an oil-related option contract in January 2007. The synthetic fuel credit program terminated at the end of 2007. See the “Income Taxes” section in the Annual Report, which section is incorporated herein by reference.  

We believe we have adequate tax reserves to cover the potential tax exposures the IRS is likely to assess. Probabilities and outcomes are reviewed as 

events unfold, and adjustments to the reserves are made when necessary, but the reserves may prove inadequate because we cannot necessarily accurately predict the outcome of any challenge, settlement or litigation or to what extent it will negatively affect us or our business.  

Going forward, we anticipate we will have fewer opportunities to participate in lease investing, tax credit programs and similar transactions that have benefited us in the past. This may adversely impact our net interest income and effective tax rate. In addition, changes in tax legislation or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide could have a material impact on our net income.  

Accounting Principles—Changes in accounting standards could have a material impact on our financial statements.  

From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and bank regulators change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of our financial statements. These changes are very difficult to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations and other financial data, although, in certain instances, these changes may not have an economic impact on our business. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements.  

Credit Reserves—We could incur income statement charges if our reserves for credit losses, including loan reserves, are inadequate.  

We have credit exposure to the airline, automotive, and telecommunications industries, to monoline financial guaranty insurers, and to many other industries. We cannot provide any assurance as to whether charge-offs related to these sectors or to different credit risks may occur in the future. Though credit risk is inherent in lending activities, our revenues and profitability are adversely affected when our borrowers default in whole or in part on their loan obligations to us. We rely on our business experience to estimate future defaults, which we use to create loan loss reserves against our loan portfolio. We cannot provide any assurance that these reserves, based on management estimates, will not be required to be augmented due to an unexpectedly high level of defaults. If reserves for 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 21  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 credit losses, including loan reserves, are not  

sufficient, we would be required to record a larger loan reserve against current earnings.  

Holding Company—We are a holding company, and as a result, are dependent on dividends from our subsidiaries, including our subsidiary banks, to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders.  

We are a non-operating holding company, whose principal assets and sources of income are our principal bank subsidiaries - The Bank of New York and Mellon Bank, N.A. - and our other subsidiaries. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our bank and other subsidiaries and, therefore, we rely primarily on dividends from these banking and other subsidiaries to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, and to provide funds for payment of dividends to our shareholders, to the extent declared by our board of directors. There are various legal limitations on the extent to which these banking and other subsidiaries can finance or otherwise supply funds to us (by dividend or otherwise) and certain of our affiliates. Although we maintain cash positions for liquidity at the holding company level, if these banking subsidiaries or other of our subsidiaries were unable to supply us with cash over time, we could be unable to meet our obligations, including our obligations with respect to our debt securities, or declare or pay dividends in respect of our capital stock. See “Supervision and Regulation” above and “Liquidity and Dividends” and “Capital—Capital Framework” in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

Because we are a holding company, our rights and the rights of our creditors, including the holders of our debt securities, to a share of the assets of any subsidiary upon the liquidation or recapitalization of the subsidiary will be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors (including, in the case of the banking subsidiaries, their depositors), except to the extent that we may ourselves be a creditor with recognized claims against the subsidiary. The rights of holders of our debt securities to benefit from those distributions will also be junior to those prior claims. Consequently, our debt securities will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities of our subsidiaries. A holder of our debt securities should look only to our assets for payments in respect of those debt securities.  

 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  

None.  

 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES