PART I  

 ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

Description of Business  

On July 1, 2007, The Bank of New York Company, Inc. (“The Bank of New York Co.”) and Mellon Financial Corporation (“Mellon”) merged into The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation (“The Bank of New York Mellon”, “BNY Mellon” or the “Corporation”), with BNY Mellon being the surviving entity. The merger was accounted for as a purchase of Mellon by The Bank of New York Co. for accounting and financial reporting purposes. For additional information on the merger, see “Introduction” on page 2 in the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders (“Annual Report”) and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference.  

The Bank of New York Mellon is a global financial services company headquartered in New York, New York, with approximately $1.121 trillion in assets under management and $23.1 trillion in assets under custody and administration. For a further discussion of BNY Mellon’s products and services, see “Overview” in the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of the Company’s Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) section in the Annual Report, which portions of the Annual Report are incorporated herein by reference. See “Available Information” on page 1 of this Form 10-K for a description of how to access financial and other information regarding BNY Mellon, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  

We were originally formed as a holding company for The Bank of New York, which has its executive offices in New York. With its predecessors, The Bank of New York has been in business since 1784. In addition to The Bank of New York, our bank subsidiaries include Mellon Bank, N.A., headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Mellon Trust of New England, National Association, headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts; Mellon United National Bank, headquartered in Miami, Florida; and Mellon 1st Business Bank, National Association, headquartered in Los Angeles, California. Our bank subsidiaries engage in trust and custody activities, investment management services, banking services and various securities-related activities. The deposits of the  

banking 

 subsidiaries are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) to the extent provided by law.  

We divide our businesses into seven segments: Asset Management; Wealth Management; Asset Servicing; Issuer Services; Clearing and Execution Services; Treasury Services and Other. For a further discussion of BNY Mellon’s products and services, see “Sector overview” and “Business segments review” in the MD&A section of the Annual Report, which are incorporated herein by reference. Information on international operations is presented in the Annual Report in  

“Net Interest Revenue-Consolidated Balance Sheet—Average Balances and Interest Yield/Rates”, “International Operations”, “International Operations-International Financial Data”, “International Operations-Cross-Border Risk” and “Consolidated Balance Sheet Review—Other loans,” which are incorporated herein by reference.  

Principal Entities  

Exhibit 21.1 to this Form 10-K presents a list of BNY Mellon’s primary subsidiaries as of Dec. 31, 2007.  

Discontinued Operations  

As discussed in Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, BNY Mellon is reporting results using the discontinued operations method of accounting. This Note is incorporated herein by reference. All information in this Form 10-K, including all supplemental information, reflects continuing operations unless other noted.  

Supervision and Regulation  

BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries are subject to an extensive system of banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the protection of the customers and depositors of BNY Mellon’s bank subsidiaries rather than holders of BNY Mellon’s securities. These laws and regulations govern such areas as levels of capital, permissible activities, reserves, loans and investments, and rates of interest that can be charged on loans. Similarly, our subsidiaries engaged in investment advisory and other securities related activities are subject to 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 3  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations that are intended to benefit clients of investment advisors and shareholders in mutual funds rather than holders of BNY Mellon’s securities. In addition, BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are subject to general U.S. federal laws and regulations and to the laws and regulations of the states or countries in which BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries are organized or conduct businesses. Described below are the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and regulations described. Changes in applicable law or regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies, cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the business and results of BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries.  

Regulated Entities of BNY Mellon  

BNY Mellon is regulated as a bank holding company and a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended by the 1999 financial modernization legislation known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “BHC Act”). As such, it is subject to the supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”). In general, the BHC Act limits the business of bank holding companies that are financial holding companies to banking, managing or controlling banks, performing certain servicing activities for subsidiaries, engaging in activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined, by order or regulation, are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto, and as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act amendments to the BHC Act, engaging in any activity, or acquiring and retaining the shares of any company engaged in any activity, that is either (1) financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve Board in consultation with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”)) or (2) complementary to a financial activity and does not pose a substantial risk to the safety and soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as solely determined by the Federal Reserve Board). Activities that are financial in nature include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking investments in commercial companies.  

In order for a bank holding company to engage in the broader range of activities that are permitted by 

the BHC Act for bank holding companies that are also financial holding companies, (1) all of its depository institutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed and (2) it must file a declaration with the Federal Reserve Board that it elects to be a “Financial Holding Company” (“FHC”). In addition, to commence any new activity permitted by the BHC Act and to acquire any company engaged in any new activities permitted by the BHC Act, each insured depository institution of the financial holding company must have received at least a “satisfactory” rating in its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the “Community Reinvestment Act”).  

A FHC that does not continue to meet all the requirements for FHC status will, depending on which requirements it fails to meet, lose the ability to undertake new activities or make acquisitions that are not generally permissible for bank holding companies or to continue such activities. Currently, we meet these requirements. BNY Mellon’s national bank subsidiaries, including Mellon Bank, N.A. and The Bank of New York Trust Company N.A., are subject to primary supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. The Bank of New York, which is one of BNY Mellon’s principal bank subsidiaries, is a New York chartered banking corporation, is a member of the Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department (the “NYSBD”). Mellon Securities Trust Company, The Dreyfus Trust Company and Mellon Trust of New York are New York trust companies and are supervised by the NYSBD. Mellon Trust of California is a California trust company and is supervised by the State of California Department of Financial Institutions. Mellon Trust of Washington is a Washington trust company and is supervised by the Division of Banks of the Washington State Department of Financial Institutions. BNYM (Delaware) is a Delaware bank and is supervised by the Office of the Delaware State Banking Commissioner.  

Under Federal Reserve Board policy, BNY Mellon is expected to act as a source of financial strength to its bank subsidiaries and to commit resources to support them, including in circumstances where it might not do so absent such policy. In addition, any loans by BNY Mellon to its bank subsidiaries would 

4 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

be subordinate in right of payment to depositors and to certain other indebtedness of its banks. BNY Mellon’s non-bank subsidiaries engaged in securities related activities are regulated by the SEC. We operate a number of broker-dealers that engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. These companies are registered broker-dealers and members of Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), a securities industry self-regulatory organization.  

Certain of our subsidiaries are registered investment advisors under the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, as amended (the “40 Act”) and, as such, are supervised by the SEC. They are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations and to the laws of any countries in which they conduct business. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries advise both public investment companies which are registered with the SEC under the 40 Act, including the Dreyfus/Founders family of mutual funds, and private investment companies which are not registered under the 40 Act. The shares of most investment companies advised by our subsidiaries are qualified for sale in all states in the U.S. and the District of Columbia, except for investment companies that offer products only to residents of a particular state or of a foreign country and except for certain investment companies which are exempt from such registration or qualification.  

Certain of BNY Mellon’s United Kingdom incorporated subsidiaries are authorized to conduct investment business in the U.K. pursuant to the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA 2000”). Their investment management advisory activities and their sale and marketing of retail investment products are regulated by the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”). In addition to broad supervisory powers, the FSA may discipline the businesses it regulates. Disciplinary powers include the power to temporarily or permanently revoke the authorization to carry on regulated business following a breach of FSMA 2000 and/or regulatory rules, the suspension of registered employees and censures and fines for both regulated businesses and their registered employees. Certain U.K. investment funds, including Mellon Investment Funds, an open-ended investment company with variable capital advised by U.K. regulated subsidiaries of BNY 

Mellon, are registered with the FSA and are offered for retail sale in the U.K.  

Certain of BNY Mellon’s public finance activities are regulated by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. BNY Mellon Bank and certain of BNY Mellon’s other subsidiaries are registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) as commodity pool operators or commodity trading advisors and, as such, are subject to CFTC regulation.  

The types of activities in which the foreign branches of our banking subsidiaries and our international subsidiaries may engage are subject to various restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Those foreign branches and international subsidiaries are also subject to the laws and regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.  

Dividend Restrictions  

BNY Mellon is a legal entity separate and distinct from its bank and other subsidiaries. Dividends and interest from our subsidiaries are our principal sources of funds to make capital contributions or loans to our bank and other subsidiaries, to pay service on our own debt, to honor our guarantees of debt issued by our subsidiaries or of trust-preferred securities issued by a trust or to pay dividends on our own equity securities. Various federal and state statutes and regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid to us by our bank subsidiaries without regulatory approval. For a further discussion of restrictions on dividends, see the first four paragraphs of Note 21 of Notes to Financial Statements in the Annual Report, which paragraphs are incorporated herein by reference. If, in the opinion of the applicable federal regulatory agency, a depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the bank, could include the payment of dividends), the regulator may require, after notice and hearing, that the bank cease and desist from such practice. The OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC have indicated that the payment of dividends would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice if the payment would deplete a depository institution’s capital base to an inadequate level. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (the “FDI Act”), an insured depository 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 5  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 institution may not pay any dividends if the institution is undercapitalized or if the payment of the dividend would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.  

The ability of BNY Mellon’s bank subsidiaries to pay dividends to BNY Mellon may also be affected by various minimum capital requirements for banking organizations, as described below. In addition, BNY Mellon’s right to participate in the assets or earnings of a subsidiary are subject to the prior claims of creditors of the subsidiary.  

Transactions with Affiliates  

There are certain restrictions on the ability of BNY Mellon and certain of its non-bank affiliates to borrow from, and engage in other transactions with, its bank subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any extensions of credit must be secured by designated amounts of specified collateral and are limited, as to any one of BNY Mellon or such non-bank affiliates, to 10% of the lending bank’s capital stock and surplus, and, as to BNY Mellon and all such non-bank affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of such lending bank’s capital stock and surplus. These restrictions, other than the 10% of capital limit on covered transactions with any one affiliate, are also applied to transactions between banks and their financial subsidiaries. In addition, certain transactions with affiliates must be on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies or, in the absence of comparable transactions, on terms and conditions, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.  

Unsafe and Unsound Practices  

The OCC has authority under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit national banks from engaging in any activity which, in the OCC’s opinion, constitutes an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting their businesses. The Federal Reserve Board has similar authority with respect to BNY Mellon and our non-bank subsidiaries. In 

 addition, the NYSBD also has similar authority with respect to our New York chartered banks, including The Bank of New York.  

Deposit Insurance  

Substantially all deposits of our bank subsidiaries are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) of the FDIC and are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the DIF. Effective Jan. 1, 2007, the FDIC adopted a new risk-based insurance assessment system designed to tie what banks pay for deposit insurance more closely to the risks they pose. The FDIC also adopted a new base schedule of rates that the FDIC can adjust up or down, depending on the needs of the DIF, and set initial premiums for 2007 that range from $.05 per $100 of domestic deposits in the lowest risk category to $.43 per $100 of domestic deposits for banks in the highest risk category. For 2007, our bank subsidiaries were assessed approximately 5 basis points (that is, one one-hundredth of 1%) per $100 of domestic deposits. An FDIC credit available to our bank subsidiaries for prior contributions offset the entire assessment for 2007 and will offset some of the assessment for 2008 and 2009. Significant increases in the insurance assessments of our bank subsidiaries will increase our costs once the credit is fully utilized or otherwise disposed of.  

In addition, the Deposit Insurance Fund Act of 1996 authorizes the Financing Corporation (“FICO”) to impose assessments on DIF assessable deposits in order to service the interest on FICO’s bond obligations. The amount assessed on individual institutions by FICO is in addition to the amount, if any, paid for deposit insurance under the FDIC’s risk-related assessment rate schedule. FICO assessment rates may be adjusted quarterly to reflect a change in assessment base. The FICO annual assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $0.0114 per $100 of domestic deposits and remains $0.0114 for the first quarter of 2008.  

Under the FDI Act, insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by a bank’s federal regulatory agency. 

6 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions and Related Matters  

The FDI Act contains a “cross-guarantee” provision that could result in any insured depository institution owned by BNY Mellon being assessed for losses incurred by the FDIC in connection with assistance provided to, or the failure of, any other insured depository institution owned by BNY Mellon. Also, under the BHC Act and Federal Reserve Board policy, we are expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of our bank subsidiaries and to commit resources to support each such bank in circumstances where such bank might not be in a financial position to support itself.  

Any capital loans by a bank holding company to any of its bank subsidiaries are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of such bank subsidiaries. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.  

In addition, under the National Bank Act, if the capital stock of a national bank is impaired by losses or otherwise, the OCC is authorized to require payment of the deficiency by assessment upon the bank’s shareholders, pro rata, and to the extent necessary, if any such assessment is not paid by any shareholder after three months notice, to sell the stock of such shareholder to make good the deficiency.  

Regulatory Capital  

The Federal Reserve Board and the OCC have substantially similar risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines for banking organizations. The guidelines are intended to ensure that banking organizations have adequate capital given the risk levels of their assets and off-balance sheet financial instruments.  

The risk-based capital ratio is determined by classifying assets and certain off-balance sheet financial instruments into weighted categories, with higher levels of capital being required for those categories perceived as representing greater risk. Under the capital guidelines, a banking organization’s total capital is divided into tiers. 

“Tier I capital” consists of (1) common equity, (2) qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, (3) for bank holding companies but not banks, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred stock and (4) minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries (including, for bank holding companies but not banks, trust-preferred securities), less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. Not more than 25% of qualifying Tier I capital may consist of cumulative perpetual preferred stock, trust-preferred securities and other so-called “restricted core capital elements.” “Tier II capital” consists of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible debt securities, a limited amount of subordinated debt, preferred stock that does not qualify as Tier I capital, a limited amount of the allowance for loan and lease losses and a limited amount of unrealized gains on equity securities. “Tier III capital” consists of qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. The sum of Tier II and Tier III capital may not exceed the amount of Tier I capital.  

The risk-based capital guidelines include capital charges for equity investments in nonfinancial companies. The guidelines require a series of marginal capital charges on covered equity investments that increase with the level of those investments as a percentage of Tier I capital. With certain exceptions, including investments grandfathered under the guidelines, the guidelines require that BNY Mellon and its bank subsidiaries deduct from Tier I capital the appropriate percentage set out below:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

The risk-based capital requirements identify concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from non-traditional activities, and the management of those risks, as important factors to consider in assessing an institution’s overall capital adequacy. In addition, the risk-based capital guidelines incorporate a measure for market risk in foreign exchange and commodity activities and in the trading of debt and equity instruments. The market risk-based capital guidelines require banking organizations with large trading activities to maintain capital for market risk in an amount 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 7  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 calculated by using the banking organizations’ own internal value-at-risk models, subject to parameters set by the regulators.  

Under the risk-based capital guidelines applicable to BNY Mellon and its domestic bank subsidiaries, the required minimum ratio of “Total capital” (the sum of Tier I, Tier II and Tier III capital) to risk-adjusted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is currently 8%. The required minimum ratio of Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets is 4%. At Dec. 31, 2007, BNY Mellon’s Total capital and Tier I capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios were 13.25% and 9.32%, respectively.  

The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies’ risk capital guidelines are based upon the 1988 Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”). The Basel Committee issued, in June 2004, and updated in November 2005, a revised framework for capital adequacy commonly known as the New Accord (“New Accord” or “Basel II”) that would set capital requirements for operational risk and refine the existing capital requirements for credit risk.  

In the United States, U.S. regulators are mandating the adoption of the New Accord for “core” banks. The Bank of New York Mellon is a “core” bank. The only approach available to “core” banks is the Advanced Internal Ratings Based (“A-IRB”) approach for credit risk and the Advanced Measurement Approach (“AMA”) for operational risk. The U.S. regulatory agencies published, on Dec. 7, 2007, the U.S. Basel II final rule in the Federal Register. The final rule becomes effective April 1, 2008. Under the final rule, 2008 is the first possible year for a bank to begin its parallel run and 2009 is the first possible year for a bank to begin its first of three transitional floor periods.  

In the U.S., we are currently working towards implementing Basel II, A-IRB and AMA approaches within the required deadlines. We began implementing the Basel II standardized approach at our foreign subsidiaries as of Jan. 1, 2008. We maintain an active dialogue with U.S. and international regulatory jurisdictions to facilitate a smooth Basel II implementation process.  

We believe Basel II will not constrain our current business practices and that using the advanced approaches, given our portfolio, could result in a 

 reduction of risk-weighted assets notwithstanding the leverage ratio requirement.  

The Federal Reserve Board requires bank holding companies to comply with minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is the ratio of a bank holding company’s Tier I capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets (as defined for regulatory purposes), net of the loan loss reserve, goodwill and certain other intangible assets. The guidelines require a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that either have the highest supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board’s risk-adjusted measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. The Federal Reserve Board has not advised us of any specific minimum leverage ratio applicable to us. At Dec. 31, 2007, our leverage ratio was 6.53%.  

The Federal Reserve Board’s capital guidelines provide that banking organizations experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Also, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will consider a “tangible Tier I leverage ratio” in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The tangible Tier I leverage ratio is the ratio of a banking organization’s Tier I capital (excluding intangibles) to total assets (excluding intangibles).  

Prompt Corrective Action  

The FDI Act requires federal banking regulators to take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDI Act identifies the following capital tiers for financial institutions: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized.  

Rules adopted by the federal banking agencies provide that an institution is deemed to be “well capitalized” if the banking institution has a Total risk-based capital ratio of 10.0% or greater, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 6.0% or greater, and a leverage ratio of 5.0% or greater, and the institution is not subject to an order, written agreement, capital directive, or prompt corrective action directive to meet and maintain a specific level for any capital measure; “adequately capitalized” if the institution 

8 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 has a Total risk-based capital ratio of 8.0% or greater, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 4.0% or greater, and a Leverage ratio of 4.0% or greater (or a Leverage ratio of 3.0% or greater if the institution is rated composite 1 in its most recent report of examination, subject to appropriate Federal banking agency guidelines), and the institution does not meet the definition of a well capitalized institution; “undercapitalized” if the institution has a Total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 8.0%, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4.0% or a Leverage ratio that is less than 4.0% (or a Leverage ratio that is less than 3.0% if the institution is rated composite 1 in its most recent report of examination, subject to appropriate Federal banking agency guidelines) and the institution does not meet the definition of a significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized institution; “significantly undercapitalized” if the institution has a Total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6.0%, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio that is less than 3.0%, or a leverage ratio that is less than 3.0% and the institution does not meet the definition of a critically undercapitalized institution; and “critically undercapitalized” if the institution has a ratio of tangible equity to total assets that is equal to or less than 2.0%. The FDI Act imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions, depending on the capital category in which an institution is classified.  

At Dec. 31, 2007, all of our bank subsidiaries were well capitalized based on the ratios and guidelines noted above. A bank’s capital category, however, is determined solely for the purpose of applying the prompt corrective action rules and may not constitute an accurate representation of the bank’s overall financial condition or prospects.  

The appropriate federal banking agency may, under certain circumstances, reclassify a well capitalized insured depository institution as adequately capitalized. The FDI Act provides that an institution may be reclassified if the appropriate federal banking agency determines (after notice and opportunity for hearing) that the institution is in an unsafe or unsound condition or deems the institution to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice.  

The appropriate agency is also permitted to require an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to comply with the supervisory provisions as if the institution were in the next lower category 

(but not treat a significantly undercapitalized institution as critically undercapitalized) based on supervisory information other than the capital levels of the institution.  

Anti-Money Laundering and the USA Patriot Act  

A major focus of governmental policy on financial institutions in recent years has been aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”) substantially broadened the scope of U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations by imposing significant new compliance and due diligence obligations, creating new crimes and penalties and expanding the extra-territorial jurisdiction of the U.S. The U.S. Treasury Department has proposed and, in some cases, issued a number of implementing regulations which apply various requirements of the USA Patriot Act to financial institutions such as BNY Mellon’s bank, broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries and mutual funds and private investment companies advised or sponsored by our subsidiaries. Those regulations impose obligations on financial institutions to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing and to verify the identity of their customers. Certain of those regulations impose specific due diligence requirements on financial institutions that maintain correspondent or private banking relationships with non-U.S. financial institutions or persons. Failure of a financial institution to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could have serious legal and reputational consequences for the institution.  

Depositor Preference Statute  

Under federal law, depositors and certain claims for administrative expenses and employee compensation against an insured depository institution would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims against such an institution, including federal funds and letters of credit, in the “liquidation or other resolution” of such an institution by any receiver. 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 9  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

Privacy  

The privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act generally prohibit financial institutions, including BNY Mellon, from disclosing nonpublic personal financial information of consumer customers to third parties for certain purposes (primarily marketing) unless customers have the opportunity to “opt out” of the disclosure. The Fair Credit Reporting Act restricts information sharing among affiliates for marketing purposes.  

Community Reinvestment Act  

The Community Reinvestment Act requires banks to help serve the credit needs of their communities, including credit to low and moderate income individuals and geographies. Should BNY Mellon or its bank subsidiaries fail to adequately serve these communities, potential penalties could be imposed, including regulatory denials to expand branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, expand into new financial activities and merge with or purchase other financial institutions.  

Legislative Initiatives  

Various legislative initiatives are from time to time introduced in Congress. We cannot determine the ultimate effect that any such potential legislation, if enacted, would have upon our financial condition or operations.  

Acquisitions  

Federal and state laws impose approval requirements for mergers and acquisitions involving depository institutions or bank holding companies. The BHC Act requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board for the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 5.0% of any class of the voting shares or all or substantially all of the assets of a commercial bank, savings and loan association or bank holding company. In reviewing bank acquisition and merger applications, the bank regulatory authorities will consider, among other things, the competitive effect of the transaction, financial and managerial issues including the capital position of the combined organization, convenience and needs factors, including the applicant’s record under the Community Reinvestment Act, and the effectiveness of the subject organizations in combating money laundering activities. In addition, other acquisitions by BNY Mellon may be subject to  

informal approval by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or other regulatory authority.  

Competition  

The Bank of New York Mellon and its subsidiaries are subject to intense competition in all aspects and areas of our business. Our Asset Management and Wealth Management business segments experience competition from asset management firms; hedge funds; investment banking companies; bank and financial holding companies; banks, including trust banks; brokerage firms; and insurance companies. These firms/companies can be domiciled domestically or internationally. Our Asset Servicing, Clearing and Execution and Treasury Services business segments compete with domestic and foreign banks offering institutional trust and custody products and cash management products and a wide range of technologically capable service providers, such as data processing and shareholder service firms and other firms that rely on automated data transfer and capture services for institutional and retail customers.  

Many of our competitors, with the particular exception of bank and financial holding companies and banks, are not subject to regulation as extensive as that described under the “Supervision and Regulation” section and, as a result, may have a competitive advantage over The Bank of New York Mellon and its subsidiaries in certain respects.  

As part of our business strategy, we seek to distinguish ourselves from competitors by the level of service we deliver to clients. We also believe that technological innovation is an important competitive factor, and, for this reason, have made and continue to make substantial investments in this area. The ability to recover quickly from unexpected events is a competitive factor, and we have devoted significant resources to this. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Competition” below, which is incorporated into this Item by reference.  

Employees  

At Dec. 31, 2007, The Bank of New York Mellon and its subsidiaries had approximately 42,100 employees. 

10 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

Statistical Disclosures by Bank Holding  

Companies  

The Securities Act of 1933 Industry Guide 3 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Industry Guide 3 (together “Guide 3”) require that the following statistical disclosures be made in annual reports on Form 10-K filed by bank holding companies.  

 I. Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in “Consolidated Balance Sheet -- Average Balances and Interest Yields/Rates” and in “Supplemental information - Rate/Volume Analysis.” Required information is also presented in “Net Interest Revenue”, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

II. Securities Portfolio  

A. Carrying Values of Securities  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which note is incorporated herein by reference.  

B. Maturity Distribution of Securities  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the Annual Report in the “Investment Securities” section and in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, which are incorporated herein by reference.  

III. Loan Portfolio  

A. Types of Loans  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is presented in the “Loans” section in the Annual Report. Further information is included in the “Risk Management” section in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

B. Risk Elements  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the “Risk Management” section in the Annual Report, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

IV. Summary of Loan Loss Experience  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is included in the Annual Report in the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses” section, which is incorporated herein by reference, and below.  

When losses on specific loans are identified, management charges off the portion deemed uncollectible. The allocation of the reserve for credit losses is presented in the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses” section in the Annual Report, as required by Guide 3, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

Further information on our credit policies, the factors that influenced management's judgment in determining the level of the reserve for credit exposure, and the analyses of the reserve for credit exposure are set forth in the Annual Report “Credit Risk” section, the “Asset Quality and Allowance for Credit Losses” section, in “Critical Accounting Estimates,” in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under “Reserve for Loan Losses and Reserve for Unfunded Commitments”, and in Note 8, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

V. Deposits  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in “Deposits” and in the “Consolidated Balance Sheet -- Average Balances and Interest Yields/Rates”, which are incorporated herein by reference.  

VI. Return on Equity and Assets  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in “Financial Summary”, which portions are incorporated herein by reference.  

VII. Short-Term Borrowings  

Information required by this section of Guide 3 is set forth in the Annual Report in “Other Borrowings”, which is incorporated herein by reference.  

VIII. Replacement Capital Covenant  

On Sept. 19, 2006, Mellon entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “RCC”) in connection with the issuance by Mellon of £200,050,000 aggregate principal amount of 

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 11  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

 Mellon’s 6.369% junior subordinated debentures (the “Junior Subordinated Debt Securities”) to Mellon Capital III (the “Trust”) and the issuance by the Trust of £200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Trust’s 6.369% preferred securities (the “Preferred Securities”). We refer to the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities and the Preferred Securities collectively as the “Securities.” Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon’s obligations under the RCC.  

BNY Mellon agreed in the RCC for the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt” in the RCC, that, on or before Sept. 5, 2056:  

   •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not repay, redeem or repurchase any of the Securities, with limited exceptions, unless  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies, and  

   •    the principal amount repaid or the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the six months prior to delivery of notice of such repayment or redemption or the date of such repurchase from issuance of other securities specified in the RCC that, generally described, based on current standards are expected to receive equity credit at the time of sale or issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the Securities at the time of such repayment, redemption or repurchase; and  

   •    BNY Mellon will not pay any interest that has been deferred on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities other than out of the net proceeds of common stock or certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock that is subject to a replacement capital covenant similar to the RCC, subject to certain limitations, and BNY Mellon will not redeem interest on the Junior Subordinated Debt Securities that it has elected to capitalize, as permitted by the terms of such securities, except with the proceeds 

 raised from the issuance or sale of common stock or rights to purchase common stock.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is the Covered Debt under the RCC as of the date of this annual report on Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have Cusip No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such series, (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date, and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the RCC but is subordinated debt. The RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the RCC.  

The full text of the RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon’s current report on Form 8-K dated Sept. 20, 2006. The description of the RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

On June 19, 2007, Mellon entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the “2007 RCC”) in connection with the issuance by Mellon of $500,100,000 aggregate principal amount of Mellon’s 6.044% Junior Subordinated Notes (the “Junior Notes”) to Mellon Capital IV (the “2007 Trust”) and the issuance by the 2007 Trust of 500,000 of its 6.244% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Preferred Capital Securities, or “Normal PCS” (together with Stripped PCS and Capital PCS issued pursuant to the terms of the Normal PCS, the “PCS”), having a stated amount of $1,000 per Normal PCS and $500,000,000 in the aggregate. Pursuant to the merger, BNY Mellon assumed Mellon’s obligation under the 2007 RCC. 

12 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON  

Table of Contents 

PART I (continued)  

BNY Mellon agreed in the 2007 RCC for the benefit of persons who buy, hold, or sell a specified series of its long-term indebtedness for money borrowed, called “Covered Debt” in the 2007 RCC, that on or before the “Stock Purchase Date”, as defined in the 2007 RCC (anticipated to be June 20, 2012), with respect to the Junior Notes, and on or before a date ten years after the Stock Purchase Date, with respect to the PCS or Preferred Stock issuable pursuant to the terms of the PCS (collectively, the Junior Notes, PCS and Preferred Stock are referred to as the “2007 Securities”):  

   •    BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries will not redeem or repurchase any of the 2007 Securities with limited exceptions, unless  

   •    BNY Mellon has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve to do so if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve’s capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and  

   •    the applicable redemption or repurchase amount does not exceed specified percentages of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that BNY Mellon and its subsidiaries have received during the 180 days prior to delivery of notice of such redemption or repurchase from issuance of common stock or other securities specified in the 2007 RCC that, generally described, based on current standards, are expected to receive equity credit at the time of issuance equal to or greater than the equity credit attributed to the 2007 Securities at the time of such redemption or repayment.  

The series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is the Covered Debt under the 2007 RCC as of the date of this Form 10-K is BNY Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, which have Cusip No. 585515AE9. Each series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Covered Debt, including Mellon’s 5.50% subordinated notes due Nov. 15, 2018, will cease to be Covered Debt on the earliest to occur of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date or the defeasance of such series; (ii) if BNY Mellon or a subsidiary elects to redeem or repurchase such series in whole or in part and after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding principal amount of such series is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date; and (iii) if such series meets the other eligibility requirements set forth in the 2007  

RCC for Covered Debt but is not subordinated debt, then the date (if any) on which BNY Mellon issues a series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that meets the eligibility requirements of the 2007 RCC but is subordinated debt. The 2007 RCC includes provisions under which a new series of BNY Mellon’s long-term indebtedness for money borrowed will then be identified as and become the Covered Debt benefiting from the 2007 RCC.  

The full text of the 2007 RCC is available as Exhibit 99.1 to Mellon’s current report on Form 8-K dated June 20, 2007. The description of the 2007 RCC set forth above is qualified by reference to its full text.  

 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS