Part I  

Item 1. Business  

Overview  

We are a global financial services firm that, through our subsidiaries and affiliates, advises, and originates, trades, manages and distributes capital for, governments, institutions and individuals. We were originally incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and our predecessor companies date back to 1924. We are a financial holding company (“FHC”) regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). We conduct our business from our headquarters in and around New York City, our regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and our principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other world financial centers. As of December 31, 2016, we had 55,311 employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “Morgan Stanley,” the “Firm,” “us,” “we,” and “our” mean Morgan Stanley (the “Parent Company”) together with its consolidated subsidiaries.  

Financial information concerning us, our business segments and geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2016, December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” in Part II, Item 8.  

Business Segments  

We are a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of our business segments—Institutional Securities, Wealth Management and Investment Management. Through our subsidiaries and affiliates, we provide a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Additional information related to our business segments, respective clients, and products and services provided is included under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7.  

Competition  

All aspects of our businesses are highly competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent. Operating within the financial services industry on a global basis presents, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that 

 require effective resource allocation in order for us to remain competitive. Our competitive position depends on our reputation and the quality and consistency of our long-term investment performance. Our ability to sustain or improve our competitive position also depends substantially on our ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. We compete with commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, electronic trading and clearing platforms, financial data repositories, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds and private equity funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial or ancillary services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. In addition, restrictive laws and regulations applicable to certain U.S. financial services institutions, such as Morgan Stanley, which may prohibit us from engaging in certain transactions and impose more stringent capital and liquidity requirements, can put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors in certain businesses not subject to these same requirements. See also “—Supervision and Regulation” below and “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

Institutional Securities and Wealth Management  

Our competitive position for our Institutional Securities and Wealth Management business segments depends on innovation, execution capability and relative pricing. We compete directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers and with others on a regional or product basis. Additionally, there is increased competition driven by established firms as well as the emergence of new firms and business models (including innovative uses of technology) competing for the same clients and assets or offering similar products and services.  

Our ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is generally impacted by our credit ratings), to commit and to deploy capital efficiently, particularly in our capital-intensive underwriting and sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects our competitive position. Corporate clients may request that we provide loans or lending commitments in connection with certain investment banking activities and such requests are expected to continue.  

It is possible that competition may become even more intense as we continue to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain geographies or products. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure on our businesses. In addition, our business is subject to extensive regulation in the U.S. and abroad, while certain of our competitors may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us, thereby putting us at a competitive disadvantage. 

    1   December 2016 Form 10-K 

Table of Contents 

We continue to experience intense price competition in some of our businesses. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions and comparable fees. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely increase as additional trading moves to more automated platforms. It is also possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by reducing prices (in the form of commissions or pricing).  

Investment Management  

Our ability to compete successfully in the asset management industry is affected by several factors, including our reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment strategies or product offerings relative to peers and appropriate benchmark indices, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the effectiveness of and access to distribution channels and investment pipelines, and the types and quality of products offered. Our investment products, including alternative investment products, may compete with investments offered by other investment managers with passive investment products or who may be subject to less stringent legal and regulatory regimes than us.  

Supervision and Regulation  

As a major financial services firm, we are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where we conduct our business. Moreover, in response to the 2007-2008 financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, have adopted, continue to propose or are in the process of implementing a wide range of reforms that have resulted or that may in the future result in major changes to the way we are regulated and conduct our business. These reforms include the Dodd-Frank Act; risk-based capital, leverage and liquidity standards adopted or being developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”), including Basel III, and the national implementation of those standards; capital planning and stress testing requirements; and new resolution regimes that are being developed in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. While certain portions of these reforms are effective, others are still subject to final rulemaking or transition periods.  

We continue to monitor the changing political, tax and regulatory environment; it is likely that there will be further material changes in the way major financial institutions are regulated in both the U.S. and other markets in which we operate, 

 although it remains difficult to predict the exact impact these changes will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period.  

Financial Holding Company  

Consolidated Supervision. We have operated as a bank holding company and FHC under the BHC Act since September 2008. As a bank holding company, we are subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. Under existing regulation, the Federal Reserve has heightened authority to examine, prescribe regulations and take action with respect to all of our subsidiaries. In particular, we are, or will become, subject to (among other things): significantly revised and expanded regulation and supervision; more intensive scrutiny of our businesses and plans for expansion of those businesses; new activities limitations; a systemic risk regime that imposes heightened capital and liquidity requirements; restrictions on activities and investments imposed by a section of the BHC Act added by the Dodd-Frank Act referred to as the “Volcker Rule”; and comprehensive derivatives regulation. In addition, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has primary rulemaking, enforcement and examination authority over us and our subsidiaries with respect to federal consumer protection laws, to the extent applicable.  

Scope of Permitted Activities. The BHC Act limits the activities of bank holding companies and financial holding companies and grants the Federal Reserve authority to limit our ability to conduct activities. We must obtain the Federal Reserve’s approval before engaging in certain banking and other financial activities both in the U.S. and internationally. Since becoming a bank holding company, we have disposed of certain nonconforming assets and conformed certain activities to the requirements of the BHC Act.  

The BHC Act grandfathers “activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,” provided that we were engaged in “any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 in the United States” and provided that certain other conditions that are within our reasonable control are satisfied. We currently engage in our commodities activities pursuant to the BHC Act grandfather exemption as well as other authorities under the BHC Act.  

Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule prohibits “banking entities,” including the Firm and its affiliates, from engaging in certain “proprietary trading” activities, as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to exemptions for underwriting, market-making-related activities, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also prohibits certain investments and relationships by banking entities with “covered funds,” with a number of 

 December 2016 Form 10-K   2    

Table of Contents 

 exemptions and exclusions. Banking entities were required to bring all of their activities and investments into conformance with the Volcker Rule by July 21, 2015, subject to certain extensions. For more information about the conformance periods applicable to certain covered funds, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Developments.” In addition, the Volcker Rule requires banking entities to have comprehensive compliance programs reasonably designed to ensure and monitor compliance with the Volcker Rule.  

The Volcker Rule also requires that deductions be made from a bank holding company’s Tier 1 capital for certain permissible investments in covered funds. Beginning with the three months ended September 30, 2015, the required deductions are reflected in our relevant regulatory capital tiers and ratios. Given its complexity, the full impact of the Volcker Rule is still uncertain and will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory agencies responsible for its oversight.  

Capital Standards. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for large bank holding companies and evaluates our compliance with such requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) establishes similar capital requirements and standards for our U.S. bank subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. (“MSBNA”) and Morgan Stanley Private Bank, National Association (“MSPBNA”) (collectively, “U.S. Bank Subsidiaries”).  

Regulatory Capital Framework. The Federal Reserve establishes capital requirements for large bank holding companies, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates our compliance with such capital requirements. The OCC establishes similar capital requirements and standards for our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. The regulatory capital requirements are largely based on the Basel III capital standards established by the Basel Committee and also implement certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. After completion of certain transitional arrangements in the regulatory capital framework, we will be subject to various risk-based capital requirements, measured against our Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Total capital bases, leverage-based capital requirements, including the Supplementary Leverage Ratio, and additional capital buffers above generally applicable minimum standards for bank holding companies.  

The Basel Committee is in the process of considering revisions to various provisions of the capital framework that, if adopted by the U.S. banking agencies, could result in substantial changes to our regulatory capital framework. 

Regulated Subsidiaries. In addition, many of our regulated subsidiaries are, or are expected to be in the future, subject to regulatory capital requirements, including regulated subsidiaries registered as “swap dealers” with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) or “security-based swap dealers” with the SEC (collectively, “Swaps Entities”) or registered as broker-dealers or futures commission merchants. Specific regulatory capital requirements vary by regulated subsidiary, and in many cases these standards are not yet established or are subject to ongoing rulemakings that could substantially modify requirements.  

Commodities-Related Capital Requirements. In September 2016, the Federal Reserve issued a proposed rulemaking that would increase risk-based capital requirements for certain commodities-related activities and commodities-related merchant banking investments of U.S. FHCs, including the Firm; impose new limitations on the physical commodity trading activities of certain U.S. FHCs; and enhance reporting requirements with respect to U.S. FHCs’ commodities-related activities and investments. If adopted in its current form, the proposed rulemaking would result in increases in our risk-weighted assets (“RWAs”) with respect to certain commodities-related investments and physical commodity holdings. However, we expect that the proposed rule, if finalized in its proposed form, would not have a material impact on our aggregate RWAs or risk-based capital ratios.  

For more information about the specific capital requirements applicable to us and our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7.  

Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Capital Distributions. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test requirements for large bank holding companies, including Morgan Stanley. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires each of our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries to conduct an annual stress test. For more information about the capital planning and stress test requirements, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements” in Part II, Item 7.  

In addition to capital planning requirements, the OCC, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) have the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including the Firm and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. All of these 

    3   December 2016 Form 10-K 

Table of Contents 

 policies and other requirements could affect our ability to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries under circumstances which we would not otherwise decide to do so.  

Liquidity Standards. In addition to capital regulations, the U.S. banking agencies and the Basel Committee have adopted, or are in the process of considering, liquidity standards. The Basel Committee has developed two standards intended for use in liquidity risk supervision, the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (“NSFR”). The Firm and its U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to the LCR requirements issued by the U.S. banking regulators (“U.S. LCR”) and would be subject to the NSFR requirements proposed by the U.S. banking regulators (“U.S. NSFR”).  

In addition to the U.S. LCR and U.S. NSFR, we and many of our regulated subsidiaries, including those registered as Swaps Entities with the CFTC or SEC, are, or are expected to be in the future, subject to other liquidity standards, including liquidity stress-testing and associated liquidity reserve requirements.  

For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Liquidity Framework” in Part II, Item 7.  

Systemic Risk Regime. The Dodd-Frank Act established a systemic risk regime to which bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, such as Morgan Stanley, are subject. Under rules issued by the Federal Reserve to implement certain requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act’s enhanced prudential standards, such bank holding companies must conduct internal liquidity stress tests, maintain unencumbered highly liquid assets to meet projected net cash outflows for 30 days over the range of liquidity stress scenarios used in internal stress tests, and comply with various liquidity risk management requirements. Institutions also must comply with a range of risk management and corporate governance requirements.  

In March 2016, the Federal Reserve re-proposed rules that would establish single-counterparty credit limits for large banking organizations (“covered companies”), with more stringent limits for the largest covered companies. U.S. global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”), including the Firm, would be subject to a limit of 15% of Tier 1 capital for credit exposures to any “major counterparty” (defined as other U.S. G-SIBs, foreign G-SIBs and nonbank systemically important financial institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve) and to a limit of 25% of Tier 1 capital for credit exposures to any other unaffiliated counterparty. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of the proposed rules. 

In addition, the Federal Reserve has proposed rules that would create a new early remediation framework to address financial distress or material management weaknesses. The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish additional prudential standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and limits on short-term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures. For example, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Requirements—Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity and Long-Term Debt Requirement” in Part II, Item 7.  

Under the systemic risk regime, if the Federal Reserve or the Financial Stability Oversight Council determines that a bank holding company with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets poses a “grave threat” to U.S. financial stability, the institution may be, among other things, restricted in its ability to merge or offer financial products and required to terminate activities and dispose of assets.  

See also “—Capital Standards” and “—Liquidity Standards” herein and “—Resolution and Recovery Planning” below.  

Resolution and Recovery Planning. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we are required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes our strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of our material financial distress or failure. Our preferred resolution strategy, which is set out in our 2015 resolution plan, is a single point of entry (“SPOE”) strategy. An SPOE strategy generally contemplates the provision of additional capital and liquidity by the Parent Company to certain of its subsidiaries so that such subsidiaries have the resources necessary to implement the resolution strategy after the Parent Company has filed for bankruptcy.  

Further, we are required to submit an annual recovery plan to the Federal Reserve that outlines the steps that management could take over time to generate or conserve financial resources in times of prolonged financial stress.  

Certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries are also subject to resolution and recovery planning requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. For example, MSBNA must submit to the FDIC an annual resolution plan that describes MSBNA’s strategy for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure of MSBNA. In September 2016, the OCC issued final guidelines that establish enforceable standards for recovery planning by national banks and certain other institutions with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, calculated on a rolling four-quarter average basis, including MSBNA. The guidelines were effective on January 1, 2017, and MSBNA must be in compliance by January 1, 2018. 

 December 2016 Form 10-K   4    

Table of Contents 

In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as the Firm and certain of its covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a resolution proceeding under the orderly liquidation authority in Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act with the FDIC being appointed as receiver, provided that certain procedures are met, including certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic risk determinations by the U.S. Treasury Secretary in consultation with the U.S. President. The orderly liquidation authority rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with some regulations now finalized and others not yet proposed. If we were subject to the orderly liquidation authority, the FDIC would have considerable powers, including: the power to remove directors and officers responsible for our failure and to appoint new directors and officers; the power to assign our assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; the ability to differentiate among our creditors, including by treating certain creditors within the same class better than others, subject to a minimum recovery right on the part of disfavored creditors to receive at least what they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and broad powers to administer the claims process to determine distributions from the assets of the receivership. The FDIC has been developing an SPOE strategy that could be used to implement the orderly liquidation authority.  

Regulators have taken and proposed various actions to facilitate an SPOE strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the orderly liquidation authority or other resolution regimes. For more information about our resolution plan-related submissions and associated regulatory actions, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Regulatory Requirements—Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, Long-Term Debt and Clean Holding Company Requirements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Developments—Resolution and Recovery Planning” in Part II, Item 7.  

Cyber Risk Management. As a general matter, the financial services industry faces increased regulatory focus regarding cyber risk management practices. In October 2016, the federal banking regulators issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding enhanced cyber risk management standards, which would apply to a wide range of large financial institutions and their third-party service providers, including the Firm. The proposed standards would expand existing cybersecurity regulations and guidance to focus on cyber risk governance and management; management of internal and external dependencies; and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. In addition, the proposal contemplates more stringent standards for institutions with systems that are critical to the financial sector. 

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries  

U.S. Bank Subsidiaries. MSBNA, primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers commercial lending and certain retail securities-based lending services in addition to deposit products, and also conducts certain foreign exchange activities.  

MSPBNA offers certain mortgage and other secured lending products, including retail securities-based lending products, primarily for customers of our affiliate retail broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC (“MSSB LLC”). MSPBNA also offers certain deposit products and prime brokerage custody services.  

Both MSBNA and MSPBNA are FDIC-insured national banks subject to supervision, regulation and examination by the OCC. They are both subject to the OCC’s risk governance guidelines, which establish heightened standards for a large national bank’s risk governance framework and the oversight of that framework by the bank’s board of directors.  

Prompt Corrective Action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” (“PCA”) with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current PCA regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as MSBNA or MSPBNA and not to their parent holding companies. The Federal Reserve is, however, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level, subject to certain limitations. Under the systemic risk regime, as described above, we also would become subject to an early remediation protocol in the event of financial distress. In addition, bank holding companies, such as Morgan Stanley, are required to serve as a source of strength to their U.S. bank subsidiaries and commit resources to support these subsidiaries in the event such subsidiaries are in financial distress.  

Transactions with Affiliates. Our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries are subject to Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on “covered transactions” with any affiliates. Covered transactions include any extension of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions by insured banks with an affiliate. These restrictions limit the total amount of credit exposure that our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates. Other provisions set collateral requirements and require all such transactions to be made on market terms. Derivatives, securities borrowing and securities lending transactions between our U.S. Bank Subsidiaries and their affiliates are 

    5   December 2016 Form 10-K 

Table of Contents 

 subject to these restrictions. The Federal Reserve has indicated that it will propose a rulemaking to implement these more recent restrictions.  

In addition, the Volcker Rule generally prohibits covered transactions between (i) us or any of our affiliates and (ii) covered funds for which we or any of our affiliates serves as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, or other covered funds organized and offered by us or any of our affiliates pursuant to specific exemptions in the Volcker Rule. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Activities Restriction under the Volcker Rule” above.  

FDIC Regulation. An FDIC-insured depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. As commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institutions, each of MSBNA and MSPBNA could be responsible for any loss to the FDIC from the failure of the other. In addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, some of the restoration of the FDIC’s reserve fund must be paid for exclusively by large depository institutions, including MSBNA.  

Institutional Securities and Wealth Management  

Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation. Our primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC (“MS&Co.”) and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (“FINRA”), and various securities exchanges and clearing organizations. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure, risk management controls in connection with market access, recordkeeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer’s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are also members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, which provides certain protections for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the insolvency of a broker-dealer. 

MSSB LLC is also a registered investment adviser with the SEC. MSSB LLC’s relationship with its investment advisory clients is subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed on investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder as well as various state securities laws. These laws and regulations generally grant the SEC and other supervisory bodies broad administrative powers to address non-compliance, including the power to restrict or limit MSSB LLC from carrying on its investment advisory and other asset management activities. Other sanctions that may be imposed include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines.  

The Firm is subject to various regulations that affect broker-dealer sales practices and customer relationships. For example, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC is authorized to impose a fiduciary duty rule applicable to broker-dealers when providing personalized investment advice about securities to retail customers, although the SEC has not yet acted on this authority.  

As a separate matter, in April 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor adopted a conflict of interest rule under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 that broadens the circumstances under which a firm and/or financial adviser is considered a fiduciary when providing certain recommendations to retirement investors and requires that such recommendations be in the best interests of clients. Subject to any potential delays, the new fiduciary standard for investment advice has a scheduled applicability date of April 10, 2017, with certain aspects subject to phased-in compliance, and with full compliance required by January 1, 2018. Given the breadth and scale of our platform and continued investment in technology and infrastructure, we believe that we will be able to provide compliant solutions to meet our clients’ investment needs. However, these developments may impact the manner in which affected businesses are conducted, decrease profitability and increase potential litigation or enforcement risk.  

Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Federal Reserve’s restrictions on lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, our broker-dealer subsidiaries’ margin policies are more stringent than these rules.  

As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the SEC’s net capital rule and the net capital requirements of various exchanges, other regulatory author-

 December 2016 Form 10-K   6    

Table of Contents 

 ities and self-regulatory organizations. These rules are generally designed to measure the broker-dealer subsidiary’s general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Consolidated Supervision” and “—Financial Holding Company—Liquidity Standards” above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations’ assets.  

Research. Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many jurisdictions, including in the U.S. where FINRA has adopted rules that cover both equity and debt. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which we are a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of corresponding policies and procedures.  

Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities. MS&Co., as a futures commission merchant, and MSSB LLC, as an introducing broker, are subject to net capital requirements of, and certain of their activities are regulated by, the CFTC, the National Futures Association (the “NFA”), CME Group, and various commodity futures exchanges. MS&Co. and MSSB LLC and certain of their affiliates are registered members of the NFA in various capacities. Rules and regulations of the CFTC, NFA and commodity futures exchanges address obligations related to, among other things, customer protections, the segregation of customer funds and the holding of secured amounts, the use by futures commission merchants of customer funds, recordkeeping and reporting obligations of futures commission merchants, and introducing brokers, risk disclosure, risk management and discretionary trading.  

Our commodities activities are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety, and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving companies conducting the activities in which we are engaged. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Scope of Permitted Activities” and “—Capital Standards—Commodities-Related Capital Requirements” above.  

Derivatives Regulation. Under the U.S. regulatory regime for “swaps” and “security-based swaps” (collectively, “Swaps”) implemented pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, we 

 are subject to regulations including, among others, public and regulatory reporting, central clearing and mandatory trading on regulated exchanges or execution facilities for certain types of Swaps. While the CFTC has completed the majority of its regulations in this area, most of which are in effect, the SEC has not yet adopted a number of its Swaps regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the registration of “swap dealers” with the CFTC and “security-based swap dealers” with the SEC. Certain of our subsidiaries have registered with the CFTC as swap dealers and will in the future be required to register with the SEC as security-based swap dealers. Such Swaps Entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory regime with new obligations for the Swaps activities for which they are registered, including capital requirements, margin requirements for uncleared Swaps and comprehensive business conduct rules. Each of the CFTC and the SEC have proposed rules to impose capital standards on Swaps Entities subject to their respective jurisdictions, which include our subsidiaries, but these rules have not yet been finalized.  

The specific parameters of some of these requirements for Swaps have been and continue to be developed through the CFTC, SEC and bank regulator rulemakings. In 2015, the federal banking regulators and the CFTC separately issued final rules establishing uncleared Swap margin requirements for Swaps Entities subject to their respective regulation, including MSBNA, Morgan Stanley Capital Services LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc (“MSIP”), respectively. These final rules impose variation margin requirements under a phase-in compliance schedule that applied to the largest dealers as of September 1, 2016 and will apply to the remainder of in-scope market participants as of March 1, 2017. Similarly, the final rules phase-in initial margin requirements from September 1, 2016 through September 1, 2020, depending on the level of over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives activity of the swap dealer and the relevant counterparty. Margin rules with the same or similar compliance dates have been adopted or are in the process of being finalized by regulators outside the U.S. and certain of our subsidiaries may be subject to such rules.  

Although the full impact of global derivatives regulation on us remains unclear, we have already faced, and are expected to continue to face, increased costs and regulatory oversight due to the registration and regulatory requirements indicated above. Complying with the Swaps rules also has required, and is expected to in the future require, us to change our Swaps businesses and has required, and may in the future require, extensive systems and personnel changes. Compliance with Swaps-related regulatory capital requirements may require us to devote more capital to our Swaps business. 

    7   December 2016 Form 10-K 

Table of Contents 

Non-U.S. Regulation. Our Institutional Securities businesses also are regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office. In addition, certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”), the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and several securities and futures exchanges in the U.K., including the London Stock Exchange and ICE Futures Europe, regulate our activities in the U.K.; the Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) and the Deutsche Börse AG regulate our activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, regulate our activities in Japan; the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong, the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate our operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Singapore Exchange Limited regulate our business in Singapore.  

Our largest non-U.S. entity, MSIP, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the PRA, which has broad legal authority to establish prudential and other standards applicable to MSIP that seek to ensure its safety and soundness and to minimize adverse effects on the stability of the U.K. financial system. MSIP is also regulated and supervised by the FCA with respect to business conduct matters.  

Non-U.S. policymakers and regulators, including the European Commission and European Supervisory Authorities (among others, the European Banking Authority and the European Securities and Markets Authority), continue to propose and adopt numerous reforms, including those that may further impact the structure of banks, and to formulate regulatory standards and measures that will be of relevance and importance to our European operations. In November 2016, the European Commission published proposals that would require certain large, non-E.U. financial groups with two or more institutions established in the E.U., to establish a single E.U. intermediate holding company (“IHC”). The proposals would require E.U. banks and broker-dealers to be held below the E.U. IHC; until more specific regulations are proposed, it remains unclear which other E.U. entities would need to be held beneath the E.U. IHC. The E.U. IHC would be subject to: direct supervision and authorization by the European Central Bank or the relevant national E.U. regu-

 lator; the E.U. bank recovery and resolution regime under the E.U. Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive (“BRRD”); and capital, liquidity, leverage and other prudential standards on a consolidated basis. The proposals will now be considered by the European Parliament and the Council of the E.U. The final form of the proposals, as well as the date of their adoption, is not yet certain.  

Regulators in the U.K., E.U. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing risk-based capital, leverage capital, liquidity, market-based reforms and other regulatory standards applicable to certain of our subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. For instance, European Market Infrastructure Regulation introduces new requirements regarding the central clearing and reporting of derivatives, as well as margin requirements for uncleared derivatives. The Markets in Financial Instrument Regulation and a revision of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (together, “MiFID II”), which is now scheduled to take effect on January 3, 2018, will also introduce comprehensive and new trading and market infrastructure reforms in the E.U., including new trading venues, enhancements to pre- and post-trading transparency, and additional investor protection requirements, among others. Although the full impact of these changes remains unclear, complying with MiFID II is expected to require extensive changes to our operations, including systems and controls.  

Regulators in the U.K., E.U. and other major jurisdictions have also finalized or are in the process of proposing or finalizing recovery and resolution planning frameworks and related regulatory requirements that will apply to certain of our subsidiaries that operate in those jurisdictions. For instance, the BRRD has established a recovery and resolution framework for E.U. credit institutions and investment firms, including MSIP. E.U. Member States were required to apply provisions implementing the BRRD as of January 1, 2015, subject to certain exemptions. In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the U.K. and other E.U. jurisdictions, have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, changes to resolution regimes to provide resolution authorities with the ability to recapitalize a failing entity organized in such jurisdiction by writing down certain unsecured liabilities or converting certain unsecured liabilities into equity.  

Investment Management  

Many of the subsidiaries engaged in our asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC. Many aspects of our asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us 

 December 2016 Form 10-K   8    

Table of Contents 

 from carrying on our asset management activities in the event that we fail to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on our engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. In order to facilitate our asset management business, we own a registered U.S. broker-dealer, Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc., which acts as distributor to the Morgan Stanley mutual funds and as placement agent to certain private investment funds managed by our Investment Management business segment. In addition, certain of our affiliates are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators, or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration pursuant to CFTC rules and other guidance, and have certain responsibilities with respect to each pool they advise. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial actions, including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships. See also “—Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation,” “—Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Regulation of Futures Activities and Certain Commodities Activities,” “—Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Derivatives Regulation” and “—Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Non-U.S. Regulation” above for a discussion of other regulations that impact our Investment Management business, including, among other things, the Department of Labor’s conflict of interest rule and MiFID II.  

As a result of the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, our asset management activities are subject to certain additional laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements (including with respect to clients that are private funds) and restrictions on sponsoring or investing in, or maintaining certain other relationships with, “covered funds,” as defined in the Volcker Rule, subject to certain limited exemptions. Many of these requirements may increase the expenses associated with our asset management activities and/or reduce the investment returns we are able to generate for our asset management clients. See also “—Financial Holding Company—Activities Restrictions under the Volcker Rule” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Regulatory Developments.”  

Our Investment Management business is also regulated outside the U.S. For example, the FCA is the primary regulator of our business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates our business in Japan; the Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong regulates our business in 

 Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates our business in Singapore. See also “—Institutional Securities and Wealth Management—Non-U.S. Regulation” herein.  

Financial Crimes Program  

Our Financial Crimes program is coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis and supports our financial crime prevention efforts across all regions and business units with responsibility for governance, oversight and execution of our Anti-Money Laundering (“AML”), economic sanctions (“Sanctions”) and anti-corruption programs.  

In the U.S., the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, broker-dealers, futures commission merchants, introducing brokers and mutual funds to implement AML programs, verify the identity of customers that maintain accounts, and monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Outside the U.S., applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly require designated types of financial institutions to implement AML programs. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations. Regarding Sanctions, we have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), which target foreign countries, entities and individuals based on external threats to U.S. foreign policy, national security or economic interests, and to comply, as applicable, similar sanctions programs imposed by foreign governments or global or regional multilateral organizations such as the United Nations Security Council and the E.U. Council.  

We are also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations. 

    9   December 2016 Form 10-K 

Table of Contents 

Protection of Client Information  

Many aspects of our businesses are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the E.U. Data Protection Directive and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. We have adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.  

Compensation Practices and Other Regulation  

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve and, with respect to some of our subsidiaries and employees, by other financial regulatory bodies worldwide. In particular, we are subject to the Federal Reserve’s guidance that is designed to help ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk taking that threatens the organizations’ safety and soundness. The scope and content of the Federal Reserve’s policies on executive compensation are continuing to develop and may change based on findings from its peer review process, and we expect that these policies will evolve over a number of years.  

We are subject to the compensation-related provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, which may impact our compensation practices. In 2016, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, certain federal regulatory agencies reproposed a rule, which, if implemented as written, would require, among other things, the deferral of a percentage of certain incentive-based compensation for senior executives and certain other employees and, under certain circumstances, “clawback” of incentive-based compensation. In addition, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in 2015, the SEC proposed rules that would direct stock exchanges to require listed companies to implement clawback policies to recover incentive-based compensation from current or former executive officers in the event of certain financial restatements and would also require companies to disclose their clawback policies and their actions under those policies. We continue to evaluate the proposed rules, both of which are subject to further rulemaking procedures.  

Our compensation practices may also be impacted by regulations in other jurisdictions. Our compensation practices with respect to certain employees whose activities have a material impact on the risk profile of our E.U. operations are subject to the Capital Requirements Directive IV (the “CRD IV”) and related E.U. and Member State regulations, including, among others, a cap on the ratio of variable remuneration to fixed 

 remuneration and clawback arrangements in relation to variable remuneration paid in the past. In the U.K., the remuneration of certain employees of banks and other firms is governed by the Remuneration Code of the FCA and by the PRA Rulebook (Remuneration Part), including provisions that implement the CRD IV, as well as additional U.K. requirements.  

For a discussion of certain risks relating to our regulatory environment, see “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A.  

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley  

The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and titles as of February 27, 2017 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.  

Jeffrey S. Brodsky (52). Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2016). Vice President and Global Head of Human Resources (January 2011 to December 2015). Co-Head of Human Resources (January 2010 to December 2011). Head of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Human Resources (June 2009 to January 2010).  

James P. Gorman (58). Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). President and Chief Executive Officer (January 2010 through December 2011) and member of the Board of Directors (since January 2010). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer of Wealth Management (February 2006 to April 2008).  

Eric F. Grossman (50). Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2012). Global Head of Legal (September 2010 to January 2012). Global Head of Litigation (January 2006 to September 2010) and General Counsel of the Americas (May 2009 to September 2010). General Counsel of Wealth Management (November 2008 to September 2010). Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP (June 2001 to December 2005).  

Keishi Hotsuki (54). Executive Vice President (since May 2014) and Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2011). Interim Chief Risk Officer (January 2011 to May 2011) and Head of Market Risk Department (March 2008 to April 2014). Director of Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. (since May 2010). Global Head of Market Risk Management at Merrill Lynch (June 2005 to September 2007). 

 December 2016 Form 10-K   10    

Table of Contents 

Colm Kelleher (59). President of Morgan Stanley (since January 2016). Executive Vice President (October 2007 to January 2016). President of Institutional Securities (January 2013 to January 2016). Head of International (January 2011 to January 2016). Co-President of Institutional Securities (January 2010 to December 2012). Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006).  

Jonathan M. Pruzan (48). Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since May 2015). Co-Head of Global Financial Institutions Group (January 2010 to April 2015). Co-Head of North American Financial Institutions Group M&A (September 2007 to December 2009). Head of the U.S. Bank Group (April 2005 to August 2007). 

Daniel A. Simkowitz (51). Head of Investment Management of Morgan Stanley (since October 2015). Co-Head of Global Capital Markets (March 2013 to September 2015). Chairman of Global Capital Markets (November 2009 to March 2013). Managing Director in Global Capital Markets (December 2000 to November 2009). 

    11   December 2016 Form 10-K 

Table of Contents 

Item 1A. Risk Factors