ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Forward-Looking Statements

Forward-looking statements contained in this and other written and oral reports are made based on known events and circumstances at the time of release, and as such, are subject in the future to unforeseen uncertainties and risks. All statements regarding future performance, earnings projections, events or developments are forward-looking statements. It is possible that the future performance and earnings projections of the Company, including its individual segments, may differ materially from current expectations, depending on economic conditions within its mobile, industrial and aerospace markets, and the Company's ability to maintain and achieve anticipated benefits associated with announced realignment activities, strategic initiatives to improve operating margins, actions taken to combat the effects of the current economic environment, and growth, innovation and global diversification initiatives. A change in the economic conditions in individual markets may have a particularly volatile effect on segment performance.

Among other factors which may affect future performance are:

•changes in business relationships with and purchases by or from major customers, suppliers or distributors, including delays or cancellations in shipments, disputes regarding contract terms or significant changes in financial condition, changes in contract cost and revenue estimates for new development programs, and changes in product mix;

•ability to identify acceptable strategic acquisition targets;

•uncertainties surrounding timing, successful completion or integration of acquisitions and similar transactions;

•the ability to successfully divest businesses planned for divestiture and realize the anticipated benefits of such divestitures;

•the determination to undertake business realignment activities and the expected costs thereof and, if undertaken, the ability to complete such activities and realize the anticipated cost savings from such activities;

•ability to implement successfully the Company's capital allocation initiatives, including timing, price and execution of share repurchases;

•increases in raw material costs that cannot be recovered in product pricing; 

•the Company's ability to manage costs related to insurance and employee retirement and health care benefits;

•threats associated with and efforts to combat terrorism and cyber-security risks;

•uncertainties surrounding the ultimate resolution of outstanding legal proceedings, including the outcome of any appeals;

•competitive market conditions and resulting effects on sales and pricing; and

•global economic factors, including manufacturing activity, air travel trends, currency exchange rates, difficulties entering new markets and general economic conditions such as inflation, deflation, interest rates and credit availability.

The Company makes these statements as of the date of the filing of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016, and undertakes no obligation to update them unless otherwise required by law.

17
Overview

The Company's order rates provide a near-term perspective of the Company's outlook particularly when viewed in the context of prior and future order rates. The Company publishes its order rates on a quarterly basis. The lead time between the time an order is received and revenue is realized generally ranges from one day to 12 weeks for mobile and industrial orders and from one day to 18 months for aerospace orders. The Company believes the leading economic indicators of these markets that have a correlation to the Company's future order rates are as follows:

•Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) on manufacturing activity specific to regions around the world with respect to most mobile and industrial markets;

•Global aircraft miles flown and global revenue passenger miles for commercial aerospace markets and Department of Defense spending for military aerospace markets; and

•Housing starts with respect to the North American residential air conditioning market and certain mobile construction markets. 

A PMI above 50 indicates that the manufacturing activity specific to a region of the world in the mobile and industrial markets is expanding. A PMI below 50 indicates the opposite. Recent PMI levels for some regions around the world were as follows: 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Global aircraft miles flown and global revenue passenger miles have both increased approximately six percent from their comparable 2015 level. The Company anticipates that U.S. Department of Defense spending with regards to appropriations, and operations and maintenance for the U.S. Government's fiscal year 2016 will increase by approximately one percent from the comparable fiscal 2015 level.

Housing starts in June 2016 were approximately nine percent higher than housing starts in March 2016 but were two percent lower than housing starts in June 2015. 

The Company has remained focused on maintaining its financial strength by adjusting its cost structure to reflect changing demand levels, maintaining a strong balance sheet and managing its cash. The Company continues to generate substantial cash flows from operations, has controlled capital spending and has proactively managed working capital. The Company has been able to borrow needed funds at affordable interest rates and had a debt to debt-shareholders' equity ratio of 39.9 percent at June 30, 2016 compared to 39.3 percent at March 31, 2016 and 36.6 percent at June 30, 2015. Net of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and other investments, the debt to debt-shareholders' equity ratio was 16.9 percent at June 30, 2016 compared to 18.6 percent at March 31, 2016 and 16.8 percent at June 30, 2015.

The Company believes many opportunities for growth are available. The Company intends to focus primarily on business opportunities in the areas of energy, water, food, environment, defense, life sciences, infrastructure and transportation. 

The Company believes it can meet its strategic objectives by:

•Serving the customer and continuously enhancing its experience with the Company;

•Successfully executing its Win Strategy initiatives relating to premier customer service, financial performance and profitable growth;

•Maintaining its decentralized division and sales company structure;

•Fostering an entrepreneurial culture;

•Engineering innovative systems and products to provide superior customer value through improved service, efficiency and productivity;

18
•Delivering products, systems and services that have demonstrable savings to customers and are priced by the value they deliver; 

•Acquiring strategic businesses; 

•Organizing around targeted regions, technologies and markets;

•Driving efficiency by implementing lean enterprise principles; and 

•Creating a culture of empowerment through its values, inclusion and diversity, accountability and teamwork.

Acquisitions will be considered from time to time to the extent there is a strong strategic fit, while at the same time maintaining the Company’s strong financial position. The Company will continue to assess its existing businesses and initiate efforts to divest businesses that are not considered to be a good long-term strategic fit for the Company. Future business divestitures could have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. 

The discussion below is structured to separately discuss the financial statements presented in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The term "year" and references to specific years refer to the applicable fiscal year.

Discussion of Consolidated Statement of Income 

The Consolidated Statement of Income summarizes the Company's operating performance over the last three years.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Net sales in 2016 were 10.6 percent lower than 2015. Acquisitions made in the last 12 months contributed approximately $42 million in sales in 2016 and the effect of currency rate changes decreased net sales in 2016 by approximately $403 million. Excluding the effect of acquisitions and currency rate changes, net sales in 2016 were 7.8 percent lower than 2015 primarily due to a decrease in volume in the both the Diversified Industrial North American and Diversified Industrial International operations.

Net sales in 2015 were 3.8 percent lower than 2014. Acquisitions made in 2015 contributed approximately $14 million in sales in 2015 and the effect of currency rate changes decreased net sales in 2015 by approximately $547 million. Excluding the effect of acquisitions and currency rate changes, net sales in 2015 were essentially unchanged from 2014 as an increase in volume experienced in the Diversified Industrial North American operations and the Aerospace Systems Segment was offset by lower volume experienced in the Diversified Industrial International operations. 

Gross profit margin decreased in 2016 primarily due to both lower sales volume, resulting in manufacturing inefficiencies, and higher business realignment charges in the Diversified Industrial Segment, partially offset by favorable product mix and lower engineering costs in the Aerospace Systems Segment.  Gross profit margin increased in 2015 primarily due to lower business realignment charges in the Diversified Industrial International operations and lower product support costs in the Aerospace Systems Segment. Foreign currency transaction (gain) loss (relating to cash, marketable securities and other investments and intercompany transactions) included in cost of sales for 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $22.7 million, $(77.8) million and $5.4 million, respectively. Pension cost included in cost of sales in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $172.4 million, $169.8 million and $174.8 million, respectively. Included in cost of sales in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were business realignment charges of $76.2 million, $19.4 million and $63.6 million, respectively.

19
Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased 12.0 percent in 2016 and decreased 5.5 percent in 2015. The decrease in 2016 was primarily due to lower research and development expenses, lower incentive compensation expense and lower stock compensation expense, partially offset by higher business realignment charges. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2015 was primarily due to lower business realignment charges and stock compensation expense, partially offset by higher net expenses associated with the Company's deferred compensation programs. The decrease in stock compensation expense in 2016 is primarily due to fewer stock awards granted. The decrease in stock compensation expense in 2015 is primarily due to a lower fair value calculated for 2015 stock awards as well as fewer stock awards granted. Pension cost included in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $74.4 million, $69.6 million and $64.2 million, respectively. Included in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2016, 2015 and 2014 were business realignment charges of $21.1 million, $12.9 million and $38.9 million, respectively.

Goodwill and intangible asset impairment related to the Worldwide Energy Products Division. Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. 

Interest expense in 2016 increased primarily due to higher weighted-average borrowings and higher weighted-average interest rates. Interest expense in 2015 increased primarily due to higher weighted-average interest rates. 

Other (income), net in 2016, 2015 and 2014 includes $25.6 million, $23.2 million and $11.1 million of income, respectively, related to the Company's equity interests in joint ventures. 

(Gain) loss on disposal of assets includes a gain of $11.5 million related to the sale of businesses in 2016 and a gain of $412.6 million related to the deconsolidation of a subsidiary in 2014.

Effective tax rate in 2016 was favorably impacted by an increase of discrete tax benefits, an increase in the U.S. Research and Development credit, and an increase in the U.S. Foreign Tax Credit. These benefits were partially offset by an unfavorable geographic mix of earnings. The effective tax rate in 2015 was favorably impacted by the re-enactment of the U.S. Research and Development credit, an increase in the federal manufacturing deduction and the absence of discrete tax costs incurred in the prior year. These benefits were partially offset by an unfavorable geographic mix of earnings.

Discussion of Business Segment Information

The Business Segment information presents sales, operating income and assets on a basis that is consistent with the manner in which the Company's various businesses are managed for internal review and decision-making. 

Diversified Industrial Segment (dollars in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales in 2016 for the Diversified Industrial North American operations decreased 13.3 percent from 2015 compared to remaining relatively flat between 2014 and 2015. Acquisitions completed within the last 12 months contributed approximately $8 million in sales in 2016 and the effect of currency exchange rates decreased sales in 2016 by $60 million. Excluding acquisitions and the effect of currency rate changes, sales in 2016 in the Diversified Industrial North American operations decreased 12.4 percent from 2015 reflecting lower demand from distributors and end-users in most markets. The markets that 

20
experienced the largest decline in end-user demand were the oil and gas, construction equipment and farm and agriculture equipment markets. Excluding acquisitions and the effect of currency rate changes, sales in 2015 in the Diversified Industrial North American operations increased 1.2 percent from 2014 reflecting higher demand from distributors as well as from end-users in the car and light truck, heavy-duty truck, refrigeration and air conditioning and construction equipment markets, partially offset by lower demand in the farm and agriculture equipment market. 

Sales in the Diversified Industrial International operations decreased 12.6 percent in 2016 after a decrease of 10.3 percent from 2014 to 2015. Acquisitions completed within the last 12 months contributed approximately $34 million in sales in 2016. The effect of currency rate changes decreased sales by $338 million, reflecting the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most currencies. Excluding acquisitions and the effect of currency rate changes, sales in 2016 in the Diversified Industrial International operations decreased 6.1 percent from 2015, primarily due to lower volume in all regions, with approximately 55 percent of the decrease occurring in Europe and approximately 35 percent of the decrease occurring in the Asia Pacific region. Within these regions, the largest decrease in sales was experienced from distributors and end-users in the oil and gas, marine, engine and construction equipment markets. Excluding acquisitions and the effect of currency rate changes, sales in 2015 in the Diversified Industrial International operations decreased 1.3 percent from 2014 primarily due to higher volume in the Asia Pacific region being more than offset by lower volume in Europe, approximately two-thirds of which was due to the absence of sales from divested businesses, and in Latin America. 

The decrease in operating margins in 2016 in the Diversified Industrial North American operations was primarily due to the lower sales volume and higher business realignment charges, partially offset by lower operating expenses primarily resulting from the Company's Simplification initiative. The decrease in operating margins in 2016 in the Diversified Industrial International operations was primarily due to the lower sales volume, an unfavorable product mix and higher business realignment charges, partially offset by lower operating expenses primarily resulting from the Company's Simplification initiative and prior-year restructuring activities. The increase in operating margins in 2015 in the Diversified Industrial North American operations was primarily due to the higher sales volume, a favorable product mix and manufacturing efficiencies, partially offset by higher warehouse, shipping, and manufacturing support costs, research and development expenses and raw material costs. Diversified Industrial North American margins in 2015 were also adversely affected by a voluntary retirement expense of $12.7 million. The increase in operating margins in 2015 in the Diversified Industrial International operations was primarily due to lower fixed overhead costs and lower business realignment charges in the current-year, partially offset by higher raw material costs due to changes in currency exchange rates.

The following business realignment charges are included in Diversified Industrial North America and Diversified Industrial International operating income:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

The business realignment charges consist primarily of severance costs related to actions taken under the Company's Simplification initiative implemented by operating units throughout the world as well as plant closures. The majority of the Diversified Industrial International business realignment charges were incurred in Europe. In addition to the business realignment charges presented in the table above, the Company recognized $12 million of expense associated with enhanced retirement benefits in connection with a plant closure during 2016. The Company anticipates that cost savings realized from the work force reduction measures taken during 2016 will increase 2017 operating income by approximately 11 percent in the Diversified Industrial North American business and by approximately 13 percent in the Diversified Industrial International business. In 2017, the Company expects to continue to take actions necessary to structure appropriately the operations of the Diversified Industrial Segment. Such actions are expected to result in approximately $48 million in business realignment charges in 2017. 

The Company anticipates Diversified Industrial North American sales for 2017 will range from a decrease of five percent to a decrease of one percent from the 2016 level and Diversified Industrial International sales for 2017 will increase between one percent and five percent from the 2016 level. Diversified Industrial North American operating margins in 2017 are expected to range from 16.7 percent to 17.1 percent and Diversified Industrial International margins are expected to range from 12.5 percent to 12.9 percent.

The decrease in total Diversified Industrial Segment backlog in 2016 was primarily due to shipments exceeding orders primarily in North America and Europe, with North America accounting for approximately 70 percent of the decrease and 

21
Europe accounting for approximately 30 percent of the decrease. The decrease in total Diversified Industrial Segment backlog in 2015 was primarily due to shipments exceeding orders in all regions. Backlog consists of written firm orders from a customer to deliver products and, in the case of blanket purchase orders, only includes the portion of the order for which a schedule or release date has been agreed to with the customer. The dollar value of backlog is equal to the amount that is expected to be billed to the customer and reported as a sale. 

The decrease in total Diversified Industrial Segment assets in 2016 was primarily due to the effect of currency rate fluctuations and a decrease in prepaid expenses, inventory, intangible assets, trade accounts receivable, net and plant and equipment, net, partially offset by an increase in marketable securities and other investments, cash and cash equivalents, deferred income taxes and goodwill. The decrease in total Diversified Industrial Segment assets in 2015 was primarily due to the effect of currency rate fluctuations and a decrease in trade accounts receivable, net, non-trade and notes receivable and intangible assets, partially offset by an increase in cash and cash equivalents and other assets.

Aerospace Systems Segment (dollars in millions)

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Sales in 2016 were higher than the 2015 level as higher volume in the military original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and commercial and military aftermarket businesses was partially offset by lower volume in the commercial OEM business. Sales in 2015 were higher than the 2014 level as higher volume in the commercial OEM and aftermarket businesses was partially offset by lower volume in the military OEM business.

The higher margin in 2016 was primarily due to a favorable product mix, favorable contract settlements, lower engineering development expenses and lower operating costs. The higher margin in 2015 was primarily due to the higher sales volume and lower engineering and development costs partially offset by a voluntary retirement expense of $5.4 million. Margins in 2015 and 2014 were favorably impacted by the finalization of contract negotiations related to certain programs. 

The increase in backlog in 2016 was primarily due to orders exceeding shipments in the military OEM and commercial and military aftermarket businesses, partially offset by shipments exceeding orders in the commercial OEM business. The decrease in backlog in 2015 was primarily due to shipments exceeding orders in all businesses of the Aerospace Systems Segment. Backlog consists of written firm orders from a customer to deliver products and, in the case of blanket purchase orders, only includes the portion of the order for which a schedule or release date has been agreed to with the customer. The dollar value of backlog is equal to the amount that is expected to be billed to the customer and reported as a sale. 

For 2017, sales are expected to increase between one percent and three percent from the 2016 level and operating margins are expected to range from 15.1 percent to 15.5 percent. A higher concentration of commercial OEM volume in future product mix and higher than expected new product development costs could result in lower margins.

The increase in assets in 2016 was primarily due to an increase in trade accounts receivable, net and other assets, partially offset by a decrease in inventory. The increase in assets in 2015 was primarily due to an increase in inventory and other assets, partially offset by a decrease in trade accounts receivable, net.

Corporate general and administrative expenses were $173.2 million in 2016 compared to $215.4 million in 2015 and $181.9 million in 2014. As a percent of sales, corporate general and administrative expenses were 1.5 percent of sales compared to 1.7 percent in 2015 and 1.4 percent in 2014. The lower expense in 2016 was primarily due to a decrease in research and development expense and lower incentive compensation expense. The higher expense in 2015 was primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation expense and higher net expenses associated with the Company's deferred compensation programs. Corporate general and administrative expenses in 2015 included $3.1 million in voluntary retirement expense.

22
Corporate assets decreased 12.5 percent in 2016 compared to a decrease of 10.8 percent from 2014 to 2015. The decrease in Corporate assets in 2016 was primarily due to decreases in marketable securities and other investments, non-trade and notes receivable, cash and cash equivalents and the effect of currency rate fluctuations, partially offset by an increase in deferred income taxes. The decrease in Corporate assets in 2015 was primarily due to the effect of currency rate fluctuations and changes in cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and other investments, non-trade and notes receivable, deferred income taxes and other assets.

Other expense (income) (in the Business Segment Information) 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Foreign currency transaction primarily relates to the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash, marketable securities and other investments and intercompany transactions. A significant portion of the foreign currency transaction gain in 2015 related to intercompany loans and was attributable to the Swiss National Bank lifting the cap on the fluctuation of the exchange rate used to measure the Swiss Franc against the Euro. The Company has since settled these particular intercompany loans. The decrease in stock compensation expense in 2016 is primarily due to fewer stock awards granted. The decrease in stock compensation expense in 2015 is primarily due to a lower fair value calculated for 2015 stock awards as well as fewer stock awards granted. Included in divestitures and asset sales and writedowns for 2014 is a gain of approximately $413 million resulting from the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. 

Discussion of Consolidated Balance Sheet

The Consolidated Balance Sheet shows the Company's financial position at year-end, compared with the previous year-end. This discussion provides information to assist in assessing factors such as the Company's liquidity and financial resources. 

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash (comprised of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and other investments) includes $2,065 million and $1,777 million held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries at June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015, respectively. Generally, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities and other investments held by foreign subsidiaries are not readily available for use in the United States without adverse tax consequences. The Company's principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows provided by operating activities, commercial paper borrowings or borrowings directly from its line of credit. The Company does not believe the level of its non-U.S. cash position will have an adverse effect on working capital needs, planned growth, repayment of maturing debt, benefit plan funding, dividend payments or share repurchases.

Trade accounts receivable, net are receivables due from customers for sales of product. Days sales outstanding relating to trade receivables for the Company was 49 days in 2016 and 48 days in 2015. The Company believes that its receivables are collectible and appropriate allowances for doubtful accounts have been recorded. 

Inventories decreased $127 million from 2015 (which includes a decrease of $17 million from the effect of foreign currency translation and an increase of $7 million from current-year acquisitions). The decrease in inventories was primarily in the 

23
Diversified Industrial Segment, with the decrease occurring evenly between the Diversified Industrial North American businesses and the Diversified Industrial International businesses. Days supply of inventory on hand was 62 days in 2016 and 65 days in 2015.

Shareholders' equity activity during 2016 included a decrease of $558 million related to share repurchases, a decrease of $205 million related to foreign currency translation adjustments and a decrease of $286 million related to pensions and postretirement benefits.

Discussion of Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows reflects cash inflows and outflows from the Company's operating, investing and financing activities.

A summary of cash flows follows:

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Cash Flows From Operating Activities in 2016 reflects a decrease in net income from 2015 of $205 million and an increase of $120 million for cash provided by working capital items. Cash flows from operating activities in 2015 reflects a reduction of $257 million for cash used by working capital items. Cash flow from operating activities in 2014 benefited from a $294 million increase in cash provided by working capital items, partially offset by a $184 million decrease in net income after consideration of non-cash items, including a $413 million gain on the deconsolidation of a subsidiary and a $189 million impairment charge. The Company also made voluntary cash contributions to the Company's domestic qualified defined benefit plan of $200 million in 2016 and $75 million in 2014.

Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities in 2016 and 2015 includes $51 million and $356 million, respectively, in net purchases of marketable securities and other investments. Cash flows used in investing activities in 2014 includes $625 million in purchases of marketable securities and other investments and $202 million in proceeds from the sale of a 50 percent equity interest in a subsidiary related to the joint venture with GE Aviation. 

Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities during 2015 includes the issuance of $1,500 million of medium-term notes and the repayment of commercial paper notes outstanding at the time of the debt issuance. The Company repurchased 5.1 million common shares for $558 million during 2016 as compared to the repurchase of 11.1 million common shares for $1,394 million in 2015 and 1.7 million common shares for $200 million in 2014.

Dividends have been paid for 264 consecutive quarters, including a yearly increase in dividends for the last 60 years. The current annual dividend rate is $2.52 per common share.

The Company's goal is to maintain no less than an "A" rating on senior debt to ensure availability and reasonable cost of external funds. As a means of achieving this objective, the Company has established a financial goal of maintaining a ratio of debt to debt-shareholders' equity of no more than 37 percent. From time to time, such as at June 30, 2016, fluctuations in cash flows from operations or capital deployment actions may cause the ratio of debt to debt-shareholders' equity to exceed the 37 percent goal. The Company does not believe that its ability to borrow funds at affordable interest rates has been or will be impacted when the debt to debt-shareholders' equity ratio temporarily exceeds 37 percent.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

24
As of June 30, 2016, the Company had a line of credit totaling $2,000 million through a multi-currency revolving credit agreement with a group of banks, $1,696 million of which was available at June 30, 2016. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

The Company is currently authorized to sell up to $1,850 million of short-term commercial paper notes. There were $304 million outstanding commercial paper notes as of June 30, 2016, and the largest amount of commercial paper notes outstanding during the last quarter of 2016 was $541 million.

The Company's credit agreements and indentures governing certain debt agreements contain various covenants, the violation of which would limit or preclude the use of the applicable agreements for future borrowings, or might accelerate the maturity of the related outstanding borrowings covered by the applicable agreements. The Company is in compliance with all covenants and expects to remain in compliance during the term of the credit agreements and indentures.

Contractual Obligations - The total amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits, including interest, for uncertain tax positions was $152 million at June 30, 2016. Payment of these obligations would result from settlements with worldwide taxing authorities. Due to the difficulty in determining the timing of the settlements, these obligations are not included in the following summary of the Company's fixed contractual obligations. References to Notes are to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

The Company does not have off-balance sheet arrangements.

Critical Accounting Policies

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be more critical than other policies because their application places the most significant demands on management's judgment.

Revenue Recognition - Substantially all of the Diversified Industrial Segment revenues are recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, product has shipped and the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred or services have been rendered, the price to the customer is fixed and determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured, which is generally at the time the product is shipped. The Aerospace Systems Segment recognizes revenues primarily using the percentage-of-completion method and the extent of progress toward completion is primarily measured using the units-of-delivery method. The Company estimates costs to complete long-term contracts for purposes of evaluating and establishing contract reserves. The estimation of these costs requires judgment on the part of management due to the duration of the contractual agreements as well as the technical nature of the products involved. Adjustments to cost estimates are made on a consistent basis and a contract reserve is established when the estimated costs to complete a contract exceed the expected contract revenues. 

Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets - Goodwill is tested for impairment, at the reporting unit level, on an annual basis and between annual tests whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of a reporting unit may exceed its fair value. For the Company, a reporting unit is one level below the operating segment level. Determining whether an impairment has occurred requires the valuation of the respective reporting unit, which the Company has consistently estimated using primarily a discounted cash flow model. The Company believes that the use of a discounted cash flow model 

25
results in the most accurate calculation of a reporting unit's fair value since the market value for a reporting unit is not readily available. The discounted cash flow analysis requires several assumptions including future sales growth and operating margin levels as well as assumptions regarding future industry specific market conditions. Each reporting unit regularly prepares discrete operating forecasts and uses these forecasts as the basis for the assumptions used in the discounted cash flow analysis. The Company has consistently used a discount rate commensurate with its cost of capital, adjusted for inherent business risks, and an appropriate terminal growth factor. The Company also reconciles the estimated aggregate fair value of its reporting units as derived from the discounted cash flow analysis to the Company's overall market capitalization. 

The results of the Company's 2016 annual goodwill impairment test performed as of December 31, 2015 indicated that no goodwill impairment existed. During 2014, the Company made a decision to restructure and change the strategic direction of its Worldwide Energy Products Division (EPD). The Company calculated the fair value of EPD using assumptions reflecting the Company's current strategic direction for this reporting unit, the results of which indicated that the carrying value of EPD exceeded its fair value. As a result, the Company estimated the implied fair value of EPD's goodwill, which resulted in a non-cash impairment charge of $140 million. The fair value of EPD was calculated using both a discounted cash flow analysis and estimated fair market values of comparable businesses. 

The Company continually monitors its reporting units for impairment indicators and updates assumptions used in the most recent calculation of the fair value of a reporting unit as appropriate. The Company is unaware of any current market trends that are contrary to the assumptions made in the estimation of the fair value of any of its reporting units. If actual experience is not consistent with the assumptions made in the estimation of the fair value of the reporting units, especially assumptions regarding penetration into new markets and the recovery of the current economic environment, it is possible that the estimated fair value of certain reporting units could fall below their carrying value resulting in the necessity to conduct additional goodwill impairment tests. 

Long-lived assets held for use, which primarily includes finite-lived intangible assets and plant and equipment, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the undiscounted net cash flows to be generated by their use over their expected useful lives and eventual disposition are less than their carrying value. The long-term nature of these assets requires the estimation of their cash inflows and outflows several years into the future and only takes into consideration technological advances known at the time of the impairment test. During 2016, there were no events or circumstances that indicated that the carrying value of the Company's long-lived assets held for use were not recoverable. During 2014, in connection with the goodwill impairment review discussed above, the Company determined certain intangible assets of EPD, primarily trademarks and customer lists, and plant and equipment were impaired resulting in a non-cash impairment charge of $49 million. The fair value of EPD's intangible assets and plant and equipment were determined using the income approach for each asset. 

Pensions - The annual net periodic expense and benefit obligations related to the Company's defined benefit plans are determined on an actuarial basis. This determination requires critical assumptions regarding the discount rate, long-term rate of return on plan assets, increases in compensation levels and amortization periods for actuarial gains and losses. Assumptions are determined based on Company data and appropriate market indicators, and are evaluated each year as of the plans' measurement date. Changes in the assumptions to reflect actual experience as well as the amortization of actuarial gains and losses could result in a material change in the annual net periodic expense and benefit obligations reported in the financial statements. Beginning in 2017, the Company will change the method used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs. The new method uses the spot yield curve approach to estimate the service and interest costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used to determine the benefit obligations to relevant cash outflows. Previously, these costs were determined using a single-weighted average discount rate. The change does not affect the measurement of the Company's benefit obligations. The new method provides a more precise measure of service and interest costs by improving the correlation between projected benefit cash flows and the discrete spot yield curve rates and will be accounted for as a change in estimate prospectively beginning in the first quarter of 2017. Annual net periodic pension expense in 2017 is expected to be lower by approximately $33 million compared to the previous method. Annual net periodic postretirement cost is not expected to be materially different.

For the Company's domestic qualified defined benefit plan, a 50 basis point change in the assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets is estimated to have a $12 million effect on annual pension expense and a 50 basis point decrease in the discount rate is estimated to increase annual pension expense by $31 million. As of June 30, 2016, $1,535 million of past years' net actuarial losses related to the Company's domestic qualified defined benefit plan are subject to amortization in the future. These losses will generally be amortized over approximately eight years and will negatively affect earnings in the future. Actuarial gains experienced in future years will help reduce the effect of the actuarial loss amortization. Further information on pensions is provided in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

26
Income Taxes - Significant judgment is required in determining the Company's income tax expense and in evaluating tax positions. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities have been recorded for the differences between the financial accounting and income tax basis of assets and liabilities. Factors considered by the Company in determining the probability of realizing deferred income tax assets include forecasted operating earnings, available tax planning strategies and the time period over which the temporary differences will reverse. The Company reviews its tax positions on a regular basis and adjusts the balances as new information becomes available. For those tax positions where it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, the largest amount of tax benefit with a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon examination by a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information will be recorded. For those income tax positions where it is not more likely than not that a tax benefit will be sustained, no tax benefit has been recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Further information on income taxes is provided in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Loss Contingencies - The Company has a number of loss exposures incurred in the ordinary course of business such as environmental claims, product liability and litigation reserves. Establishing loss accruals for these matters requires management's estimate and judgment with regards to risk exposure and ultimate liability or realization. These loss accruals are reviewed periodically and adjustments are made to reflect the most recent facts and circumstances.

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 

Recently issued accounting pronouncements are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. The Company manages foreign currency transaction and translation risk by utilizing derivative and non-derivative financial instruments, including forward exchange contracts, costless collar contracts, cross-currency swap contracts and certain foreign denominated debt designated as net investment hedges. The derivative financial instrument contracts are with major investment grade financial institutions and the Company does not anticipate any material non-performance by any of the counterparties. The Company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 

Derivative financial instruments are recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as either assets or liabilities and are measured at fair value. Further information on the fair value of these contracts is provided in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Gains or losses on derivatives that are not hedges are adjusted to fair value through the Consolidated Statement of Income. Gains or losses on derivatives that are hedges are adjusted to fair value through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Balance Sheet until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The translation of the foreign denominated debt that has been designated as a net investment hedge is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and remains there until the underlying net investment is sold or substantially liquidated.

The Company's debt portfolio contains variable rate debt, inherently exposing the Company to interest rate risk. The Company's objective is to maintain a 60/40 mix between fixed rate and variable rate debt thereby limiting its exposure to changes in near-term interest rates. A 100 basis point increase in near-term interest rates would increase annual interest expense on variable rate debt existing at June 30, 2016 by approximately $6 million.

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.