Part I  

 Item 1.Business  

 Simon Property Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or REIT, under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Internal Revenue Code. REITs will generally not be liable for U.S. federal corporate income taxes as long as they distribute not less than 100% of their REIT taxable income. Simon Property Group, L.P. is our majority-owned Delaware partnership subsidiary that owns all of our real estate properties and other assets. Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to "Simon" mean Simon Property Group, Inc. and references to the "Operating Partnership" mean Simon Property Group, L.P. References to "we," "us" and "our" mean collectively Simon, the Operating Partnership and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Simon and/or the Operating Partnership. According to the Operating Partnership's partnership agreement, the Operating Partnership is required to pay all expenses of Simon.  

 We own, develop and manage retail real estate properties, which consist primarily of malls, Premium Outlets®, and The Mills®. As of December 31, 2016, we owned or held an interest in 206 income‑producing properties in the United States, which consisted of 108 malls, 67 Premium Outlets, 14 Mills, four lifestyle centers, and 13 other retail properties in 37 states and Puerto Rico. In addition, we have redevelopment and expansion projects, including the addition of anchors, big box tenants, and restaurants, underway at 27 properties in the United States and we have one outlet and one other significant retail project under development. Internationally, as of December 31, 2016, we had ownership interests in nine Premium Outlets in Japan, three Premium Outlets in South Korea, two Premium Outlets in Canada, one Premium Outlet in Mexico, and one Premium Outlet in Malaysia. We also own an interest in six Designer Outlet properties in Europe and one Designer Outlet property in Canada, of which four properties are consolidated. Of the six properties in Europe, two are located in Italy and one each is located in Austria, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. We also have four international outlet properties under development. As of December 31, 2016, we owned a 20.3% equity stake in Klépierre SA, or Klépierre, a publicly traded, Paris‑based real estate company, which owns, or has an interest in, shopping centers located in 16 countries in Europe.  

 For a description of our operational strategies and developments in our business during 2016, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10‑K.  

 Other Policies  

 The following is a discussion of our investment policies, financing policies, conflict of interest policies and policies with respect to certain other activities. One or more of these policies may be amended or rescinded from time to time without a stockholder vote.  

 Investment Policies  

 While we emphasize equity real estate investments, we may also provide secured financing to or invest in equity or debt securities of other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers consistent with Simon’s qualification as a REIT. However, any of these investments would be subject to the percentage ownership limitations and gross income tests necessary for REIT qualification. These REIT limitations mean that Simon cannot make an investment that would cause its real estate assets to be less than 75% of its total assets. Simon must also derive at least 75% of its gross income directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property, including “rents from real property,” dividends from other REITs and, in certain circumstances, interest from certain types of temporary investments. In addition, Simon must also derive at least 95% of its gross income from such real property investments, and from dividends, interest and gains from the sale or dispositions of stock or securities or from other combinations of the foregoing.  

 Subject to Simon’s REIT limitations, we may invest in the securities of other issuers in connection with acquisitions of indirect interests in real estate. Such an investment would normally be in the form of general or limited partnership or membership interests in special purpose partnerships and limited liability companies that own one or more properties. We may, in the future, acquire all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs, management companies or similar entities where such investments would be consistent with our investment policies.  

 5  

 Table of Contents  

 Financing Policies  

 Because Simon’s REIT qualification requires us to distribute at least 90% of its REIT taxable income, we regularly access the debt markets to raise the funds necessary to finance acquisitions, develop and redevelop properties, and refinance maturing debt. We must comply with the covenants contained in our financing agreements that limit our ratio of debt to total assets or market value, as defined. For example, the Operating Partnership’s lines of credit and the indentures for the Operating Partnership’s debt securities contain covenants that restrict the total amount of debt of the Operating Partnership to 65%, or 60% in relation to certain debt, of total assets, as defined under the related agreements, and secured debt to 50% of total assets. In addition, these agreements contain other covenants requiring compliance with financial ratios. Furthermore, the amount of debt that we may incur is limited as a practical matter by our desire to maintain acceptable ratings for the debt securities of the Operating Partnership. We strive to maintain investment grade ratings at all times for various business reasons, including their effect on our ability to access attractive capital, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in the future.  

 If Simon’s Board of Directors determines to seek additional capital, we may raise such capital by offering equity or incurring debt, creating joint ventures with existing ownership interests in properties, entering into joint venture arrangements for new development projects, retaining cash flows or a combination of these methods. If Simon’s Board of Directors determines to raise equity capital, it may, without stockholder approval, issue additional shares of common stock or other capital stock. Simon’s Board of Directors may issue a number of shares up to the amount of our authorized capital or may issue units in any manner and on such terms and for such consideration as it deems appropriate. We may also raise additional capital by issuing common units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or units. Such securities also may include additional classes of Simon’s preferred stock or preferred units of partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, or preferred units, which may be convertible into common stock or units, as the case may be. Existing stockholders and unitholders have no preemptive right to purchase shares or units in any subsequent issuances of securities by us. Any issuance of equity could dilute a stockholder’s investment in Simon or a limited partner’s investment in the Operating Partnership.  

 We expect most future borrowings will be made through the Operating Partnership or its subsidiaries. We might, however, incur borrowings through other entities that would be reloaned to the Operating Partnership. Borrowings may be in the form of bank borrowings, publicly and privately placed debt instruments, or purchase money obligations to the sellers of properties. Any such indebtedness may be secured or unsecured. Any such indebtedness may also have full or limited recourse to the borrower or be cross‑collateralized with other debt, or may be fully or partially guaranteed by the Operating Partnership. We issue unsecured debt securities through the Operating Partnership, but we may issue other debt securities which may be convertible into common or preferred stock or be accompanied by warrants to purchase common or preferred stock. We also may sell or securitize our lease receivables. Although we may borrow to fund the payment of dividends, we currently have no expectation that we will regularly do so.  

 The Operating Partnership has a $4.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, or Credit Facility. The Credit Facility’s initial borrowing capacity of $4.0 billion may be increased to $5.0 billion during its term. The initial maturity date of the Credit Facility is June 30, 2018 and can be extended for an additional year to June 30, 2019 at our sole option, subject to our continued compliance with the terms thereof. The Operating Partnership also has a $3.50 billion supplemental unsecured revolving credit facility, or Supplemental Facility, and together with the Credit Facility, the Credit Facilities. On April 6, 2016, the Operating Partnership amended the Supplemental Facility to, among other matters, (i) exercise its $750.0 million accordion feature such that the Supplemental Facility’s borrowing capacity was increased from $2.75 billion to $3.50 billion and (ii) add a new $750.0 million accordion feature to permit us to further increase the Supplemental Facility’s borrowing capacity to $4.25 billion during its term. The initial maturity date of the Supplemental Facility is June 30, 2019 and can be extended for an additional year to June 30, 2020 at our sole option, subject to our continued compliance with the terms thereof. The base interest rate on each of the Credit Facility and the Supplemental Facility is LIBOR plus 80 basis points with an additional facility fee of 10 basis points. The Credit Facilities provide for borrowings denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, Yen, Sterling, Canadian dollars and Australian dollars.  

 The Operating Partnership also has available a global unsecured commercial paper note program, or the Commercial Paper program, of $1.0 billion, or the non‑U.S. dollar equivalent thereof. The Operating Partnership may issue unsecured commercial paper notes, denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros and other currencies. Notes issued in non‑U.S. currencies may be issued by one or more subsidiaries of the Operating Partnership and are guaranteed by the Operating Partnership. These notes are sold under customary terms in the U.S. and Euro commercial paper note markets and rank (either by themselves or as a result of the guarantee described above) pari passu with the Operating Partnership’s other unsecured senior indebtedness. The Commercial Paper program is supported by the Credit Facilities and, if necessary or 

 6  

 Table of Contents  

appropriate, we may make one or more draws under either Credit Facility to pay amounts outstanding from time to time on the Commercial Paper program.  

 We may also finance our business through the following:  

   ·    issuance of shares of common stock or preferred stock or warrants to purchase the same; 

   ·    issuance of additional units; 

   ·    issuance of preferred units; 

   ·    issuance of other securities, including unsecured notes and mortgage debt; 

   ·    draws on our Credit Facilities; 

   ·    borrowings under the Commercial Paper program; or 

   ·    sale or exchange of ownership interests in properties. 

 The Operating Partnership may also issue units to contributors of properties or other partnership interests which may permit the contributor to defer tax gain recognition under the Internal Revenue Code.  

 We do not have a policy limiting the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any particular property. Mortgage financing instruments, however, typically limit additional indebtedness on such properties. Additionally, the Credit Facilities, our unsecured note indentures and other contracts may limit our ability to borrow and contain limits on mortgage indebtedness we may incur as well as certain financial covenants we must maintain.  

 Typically, we invest in or form special purpose entities to assist us in obtaining secured permanent financing at attractive terms. Permanent financing may be structured as a mortgage loan on a single property, or on a group of properties, and generally requires us to provide a mortgage lien on the property or properties in favor of an institutional third party, as a joint venture with a third party, or as a securitized financing. For securitized financings, we create special purpose entities to own the properties. These special purpose entities, which are common in the real estate industry, are structured so that they would not be consolidated in a bankruptcy proceeding involving a parent company. We decide upon the structure of the financing based upon the best terms then available to us and whether the proposed financing is consistent with our other business objectives. For accounting purposes, we include the outstanding securitized debt of special purpose entities owning consolidated properties as part of our consolidated indebtedness.  

 Conflict of Interest Policies  

 We maintain policies and have entered into agreements designed to reduce or eliminate potential conflicts of interest. Simon has adopted governance principles governing the function, conduct, selection, orientation and duties of its subsidiaries and Simon’s Board of Directors and the Company, as well as written charters for each of the standing Committees of Simon’s Board of Directors. In addition, Simon’s Board of Directors has a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which applies to all of its officers, directors, and employees and those of its subsidiaries. At least a majority of the members of Simon’s Board of Directors must qualify as independent under the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, and cannot be affiliated with the Simon family, who are significant stockholders and/or unitholders in the Operating Partnership. In addition, the Audit and Compensation Committees of Simon’s Board of Directors are comprised entirely of independent members who meet the additional independence and financial sophistication requirements of the NYSE. Any transaction between us and the Simon family, including property acquisitions, service and property management agreements and retail space leases, must be approved by a majority of Simon’s non-affiliated directors.  

 The sale by the Operating Partnership of any property that it owns may have an adverse tax impact on the Simon family or other limited partners of the Operating Partnership. In order to avoid any conflict of interest, the Simon charter requires that at least three-fourths of Simon’s independent directors must authorize and require the Operating Partnership to sell any property it owns. Any such sale is subject to applicable agreements with third parties. Noncompetition agreements executed by David Simon, Simon’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Herbert Simon, Simon’s Chairman Emeritus, as well as David Simon's employment agreement, contain covenants limiting their ability to participate in certain shopping center activities.  

 7  

 Table of Contents  

 Policies With Respect To Certain Other Activities  

 We intend to make investments which are consistent with Simon’s qualification as a REIT, unless Simon’s Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in Simon’s best interests to so qualify as a REIT. Simon’s Board of Directors may make such a determination because of changing circumstances or changes in the REIT requirements. Simon has authority to issue shares of its capital stock or other securities in exchange for property. We also have authority to repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares, our units, or any other securities. On April 2, 2015, Simon’s Board of Directors authorized Simon to repurchase up to $2.0 billion of its common stock over a twenty‑four month period as market conditions warrant, or the Repurchase Program. Under the Repurchase Program, Simon may repurchase the shares in the open market, or in privately negotiated transactions. At December 31, 2016, we had remaining authority to repurchase $1.4 billion of common stock, and on February 13, 2017, Simon’s Board of Directors authorized a two-year extension of the Repurchase Program through March 31, 2019. Simon may also issue shares of its common stock, or pay cash at its option, to holders of units in future periods upon exercise of such holders’ rights under the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership. Our policy prohibits us from making any loans to the directors or executive officers of Simon for any purpose. We may make loans to the joint ventures in which we participate. Additionally, we may make or buy interests in loans secured by real estate properties owned by others or make investments in companies that own real estate assets.  

 Competition  

 The retail real estate industry is dynamic and competitive. We compete with numerous merchandise distribution channels, including malls, outlet centers, community/lifestyle centers, and other shopping centers in the United States and abroad. We also compete with internet retailing sites and catalogs which provide retailers with distribution options beyond existing brick and mortar retail properties. The existence of competitive alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease space and on the level of rents we can obtain. This results in competition for both the tenants to occupy the properties that we develop and manage as well as for the acquisition of prime sites (including land for development and operating properties). We believe that there are numerous factors that make our properties highly desirable to retailers, including:  

   ·    the quality, location and diversity of our properties; 

   ·    our management and operational expertise; 

   ·    our extensive experience and relationships with retailers, lenders and suppliers; and 

   ·    our marketing initiatives and consumer focused strategic corporate alliances. 

 Certain Activities  

 During the past three years, we have:  

   ·    issued 5,580,501 shares of Simon common stock upon the exchange of units in the Operating Partnership; 

   ·    issued 210,571 restricted shares of Simon common stock and 1,353,830 long‑term incentive performance units, or LTIP units, net of forfeitures, under The Simon Property Group 1998 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, or the 1998 Plan; 

   ·    purchased 3,312,537 shares of Simon common stock in the open market for $598.3 million pursuant to our Repurchase Program; 

   ·    redeemed 944,359 units in the Operating Partnership for $172.27 per unit in cash; 

   ·    issued 555,150 units in the Operating Partnership in exchange for the remaining interest in a former joint venture property; 

   ·    amended and extended the Credit Facility in April 2014 to increase our borrowing capacity and extend its term; 

   ·    amended and extended the Supplemental Facility in March 2015 to increase our borrowing capacity and extend its term, and amended the Supplemental Facility in April 2016 to further increase our borrowing capacity; 

   ·    borrowed a maximum amount of $1.5 billion under the Credit Facilities; the outstanding amount of borrowings under the Credit Facilities as of December 31, 2016 was $316.5 million, of which $191.5 million was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Yen‑denominated borrowings; 

 8  

 Table of Contents  

   ·    established a global Commercial Paper program and increased the borrowing capacity from $500.0 million to $1.0 billion; the outstanding amount of Commercial Paper notes as of December 31, 2016 was $953.7 million, of which $79.3 million was related to U.S. dollar equivalent of Euro‑denominated notes; and 

   ·    provided annual reports containing financial statements audited by our independent registered public accounting firm and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial statements to our security holders. 

 Employees  

 At December 31, 2016, we and our affiliates employed approximately 5,000 persons at various properties and offices throughout the United States, of which approximately 1,900 were part‑time. Approximately 1,100 of these employees were located at our corporate headquarters in Indianapolis, Indiana.  

 Corporate Headquarters  

 Our corporate headquarters are located at 225 West Washington Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46204, and our telephone number is (317) 636‑1600.  

 Available Information  

 Simon is a large accelerated filer (as defined in Rule 12b‑2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act) and is required, pursuant to Item 101 of Regulation S‑K, to provide certain information regarding our website and the availability of certain documents filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Our Internet website address is www.simon.com. Our annual reports on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q, current reports on Form 8‑K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available or may be accessed free of charge through the “About Simon/Investor Relations/Financial Information” section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not, and are not intended to be, incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10‑K.  

 The following corporate governance documents are also available through the “About Simon/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance” section of our Internet website or may be obtained in print form by request of our Investor Relations Department: Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, and Governance and Nominating Committee Charter.  

 In addition, we intend to disclose on our Internet website any amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that are required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to rules of the SEC and the NYSE.  

 Executive Officers  

 The following table sets forth certain information with respect to Simon’s executive officers as of February 24, 2017.  

[DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 The executive officers of Simon serve at the pleasure of Simon’s Board of Directors except for David Simon and Richard S. Sokolov who are subject to employment agreements which may call for certain payments upon termination.  

 Mr. Simon has served as the Chairman of Simon’s Board of Directors since 2007 and Chief Executive Officer of Simon or its predecessor since 1995. Mr. Simon has also been a director of Simon or its predecessor since its incorporation 

 9  

 Table of Contents  

in 1993. Mr. Simon was the President of Simon’s predecessor from 1993 to 1996. From 1988 to 1990, Mr. Simon was Vice President of Wasserstein Perella & Company. From 1985 to 1988, he was an Associate at First Boston Corp. He is the son of the late Melvin Simon and the nephew of Herbert Simon.  

 Mr. Sokolov has served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Simon or its predecessor since 1996. Mr. Sokolov has also been a director of Simon or its predecessor since 1996. Mr. Sokolov was President and Chief Executive Officer of DeBartolo Realty Corporation from its incorporation in 1994 until it merged with our predecessors in 1996. Mr. Sokolov joined its predecessor, The Edward J. DeBartolo Corporation, in 1982 as Vice President and General Counsel and was named Senior Vice President, Development and General Counsel in 1986.  

 Mr. Juster serves as Simon’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Juster joined Melvin Simon & Associates, Inc., or MSA, in 1989 and held various financial positions with MSA until 1993 and thereafter has held various positions with Simon. Mr. Juster became Treasurer in 2001 and was promoted to Executive Vice President in 2008 and Chief Financial Officer in 2014.  

 Mr. Contis serves as Simon’s Senior Executive Vice President and President of Simon Malls. Mr. Contis joined Simon in 2011. Prior to joining Simon, Mr. Contis served as the President of Real Estate at Equity Group Investments, LLC. Mr. Contis has over 35 years of domestic and international real estate experience including 25 years overseeing both public and private mall portfolios.  

 Mr. Rulli serves as Simon’s Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer. Mr. Rulli joined MSA in 1988 and held various positions with MSA and Simon thereafter. Mr. Rulli became Chief Administrative Officer in 2007 and was promoted to Senior Executive Vice President in 2011.  

 Mr. Fivel serves as Simon’s General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to rejoining Simon in 2011 as Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, Mr. Fivel served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Brightpoint, Inc. Mr. Fivel was previously employed by MSA from 1988 until 1993 and then by Simon from 1993 to 1996.  

 Mr. Snyder serves as Simon’s Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary. Mr. Snyder joined Simon in 2016 as Senior Deputy General Counsel. Immediately prior to joining Simon, Mr. Snyder was Managing Partner of the Crimson Fulcrum Strategic Institute. Mr. Snyder previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for Beechcraft Corporation as well as Chief Counsel Mergers & Acquisitions for Koch Industries, Inc.   

 Mr. Broadwater serves as Simon’s Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and prior to that as Simon’s Vice President and Corporate Controller. Mr. Broadwater joined Simon in 2004 and was promoted to Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer in 2009.  

 Mr. McDade serves as Simon’s Senior Vice President and Treasurer. Mr. McDade joined Simon in 2007 as the Director of Capital Markets and was promoted to Senior Vice President of Capital Markets in 2013. Mr. McDade was promoted to Treasurer in 2014.  

 10  

 Table of Contents  

 Item 1A. Risk Factors