PART I 

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 

CORPORATE STRUCTURE 

SCANA Corporation (SCANA), a holding company, owns the following direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries; 

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G) is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to retail and wholesale customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to retail customers. 

South Carolina Generating Company, Inc. (GENCO) owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. 

South Carolina Fuel Company, Inc. (Fuel Company) acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G’s nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowances. 

Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated (PSNC Energy) purchases, sells and transports natural gas to retail customers. 

Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation (CGT) transports natural gas in South Carolina and southeastern Georgia. 

SCANA Communications, Inc. (SCI) provides fiber optic communications, ethernet services and data center facilities and builds, manages and leases communications towers in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. 

SCANA Energy Marketing, Inc. (SEMI) markets natural gas, primarily in the Southeast, and provides energy-related risk management services. SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas in Georgia’s retail market. 

ServiceCare, Inc. provides service contracts on home appliances and heating and air conditioning units. 

SCANA Services, Inc. provides administrative, management and other services to SCANA’s subsidiaries and business units. 

SCANA is incorporated in South Carolina, as is each of its direct, wholly-owned subsidiaries. In addition to the subsidiaries above, SCANA owns three other energy-related companies that are insignificant and one additional company that is in liquidation. 

6 

Table of Contents  

ORGANIZATION 

SCANA is a South Carolina corporation created in 1984 as a holding company. SCANA holds, directly or indirectly, all of the capital stock of each of its subsidiaries. SCANA and its subsidiaries had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2010 and 2009 of 5,828 and 5,786, respectively. SCE&G is an operating public utility incorporated in 1924 as a South Carolina corporation. SCE&G had full-time, permanent employees as of February 20, 2010 and 2009 of 3,108 and 3,086, respectively. 

INVESTOR INFORMATION 

SCANA’s and SCE&G’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC are available free of charge through SCANA’s internet website at www.scana.com as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed or furnished. Information on SCANA’s website is not part of this or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

SEGMENTS OF BUSINESS 

For information with respect to major segments of business, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G (Note 12). All such information is incorporated herein by reference. 

SCANA does not directly own or operate any significant physical properties. SCANA, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in the functionally distinct operations described below. 

Regulated Utilities 

SCE&G is engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 655,000 customers and the purchase, sale and transportation of natural gas to approximately 310,000 customers (each as of December 31, 2009). SCE&G’s business experiences seasonal fluctuations, with generally higher sales of electricity during the summer and winter months because of air conditioning and heating requirements, and generally higher sales of natural gas during the winter months due to heating requirements. SCE&G’s electric service territory extends into 24 counties covering nearly 17,000 square miles in the central, southern and southwestern portions of South Carolina. The service area for natural gas encompasses all or part of 35 counties in South Carolina and covers more than 25,000 square miles. More than 3.2 million persons live in the counties where SCE&G conducts its business. Resale customers include municipalities, electric cooperatives, other investor-owned utilities, registered marketers and federal and state electric agencies. Predominant industries served by SCE&G include chemicals, educational services, textile manufacturing, paper products, food products, lumber and wood products, health services, food and retail stores. 

GENCO owns Williams Station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. 

Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G’s nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowances. 

PSNC Energy purchases, sells and transports natural gas to approximately 473,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers (as of December 31, 2009). PSNC Energy serves 28 franchised counties covering 12,000 square miles in North Carolina. The industrial customers of PSNC Energy include manufacturers and processors of automobiles, pharmaceuticals, biotechnicals, chemicals, ceramics, food products, steel and non-woven textile and kindred products. 

CGT operates as an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company regulated by FERC. CGT operates in southeastern Georgia and in South Carolina and has interconnections with Southern Natural at Port Wentworth, Georgia and with Southern LNG, Inc. at Elba Island, near Savannah, Georgia. CGT also has interconnections with Southern Natural in Aiken County, South Carolina, and with Transco in Cherokee and Spartanburg counties, South Carolina. CGT’s customers include SCE&G (which uses natural gas for electricity generation and for gas distribution to retail customers), SEMI (which markets natural gas to industrial and sale for resale customers, primarily in the Southeast), other natural gas utilities, municipalities, county gas authorities, and industrial customers primarily engaged in the manufacturing or processing of ceramics, paper, metal, food and textiles. 

Nonregulated Businesses 

SEMI markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services. SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, sells natural gas to over 455,000 customers (as of December 31, 2009) in Georgia’s natural gas market. The Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC) has selected SCANA Energy to serve as the state’s regulated provider until August 31, 2011. Included in the above customer count, SCANA Energy serves over 90,000 customers (as of December 31, 2009) under this regulated provider contract, which includes low-income and high credit risk customers. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximately 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. 

7 

Table of Contents   

SCI owns and operates a 500-mile fiber optic telecommunications network and ethernet network and data center facilities in South Carolina. Through a joint venture, SCI has an interest in an additional 2,280 miles of fiber in South Carolina, North Carolina and Georgia. SCI also provides tower site construction, management and rental services in South Carolina and North Carolina. 

The preceding Corporate Structure section describes other businesses owned by SCANA. 

COMPETITION 

For a discussion of the impact of competition, see the Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS 

SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries, including SCE&G, require cash to fund operations, construction programs and dividend payments to SCANA. SCANA’s nonregulated subsidiaries require cash to fund operations and dividend payments to SCANA. To replace existing plant investment and to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas, SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries must attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief, when requested. 

For a discussion of various rate matters and their impact on capital requirements, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G. 

During the period 2010-2012, SCANA and SCE&G expect to meet capital requirements through internally generated funds, issuance of equity and short-term and long-term borrowings. SCANA and SCE&G expect that they have or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet their projected cash requirements for the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. 

For a discussion of cash requirements for construction and nuclear fuel expenditures, contractual cash obligations, financing limits, financing transactions and other related information, see the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCANA’s ratios of earnings to fixed charges were 2.84, 3.04, 3.03, 2.94 and 2.19 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. SCE&G’s ratios of earnings to fixed charges were 3.25, 3.51, 3.40, 3.32 and 2.26 for the same periods. SCANA’s and SCE&G’s ratios for 2005 were negatively impacted by large amounts of accelerated depreciation that were recorded under an accounting methodology approved by the Public Service Commission of South Carolina (SCPSC), and because the calculations necessarily exclude the related and fully offsetting synthetic fuel tax benefits recorded in that year. 

ELECTRIC OPERATIONS 

Electric Sales 

SCE&G’s sales of electricity by customer classification as a percent of electric revenues for 2008 and 2009 were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

8 

Table of Contents  

SCE&G’s margins earned from the sale of electricity by customer classification as a percent of electric margin for 2008 and 2009 were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Sales for resale include sales to six municipalities. Sales under NMST during 2009 include sales to nine investor-owned utilities or registered marketers, three electric cooperatives and three federal/state electric agencies. During 2008 sales under the NMST included sales to 13 investor-owned utilities or registered marketers, four electric cooperatives and four federal/state electric agencies. 

  During 2009 SCE&G recorded a net increase of approximately 5,200 electric customers (growth rate of 0.8%), increasing its total electric customers to approximately 655,000 at year end. 

For the period 2010-2012, SCE&G projects total territorial KWh sales of electricity to increase 1.4% annually (assuming normal weather), total electric customer base to increase 2.1% annually and territorial peak load (summer, in MW) to increase 1.7% annually. While SCE&G’s goal is to maintain a reserve margin of between 12% and 18%, weather and other factors affect territorial peak load and can cause actual generating capacity on any given day to fall below the reserve margin goal. 

Electric Interconnections 

SCE&G purchases all of the electric generation of GENCO’s Williams Station under a Unit Power Sales Agreement which has been approved by FERC. Williams Station has a net generating capacity (summer rating) of 570 MW. 

SCE&G’s transmission system is part of an interconnected grid extending over a large part of the southern and eastern portions of the nation. SCE&G interconnects with Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, and Santee Cooper. SCE&G also interconnects with Georgia Power Company, Oglethorpe Power Corporation and the Southeastern Power Administration’s Clarks Hill Project. SCE&G, Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy Carolinas, Santee Cooper, Dominion Virginia Power and ALCOA Power Generating, Inc. (Yadkin Division), are members of the Virginia-Carolinas Reliability Group (VACAR), one of several geographic divisions within the SERC Reliability Corporation (SERC). SERC is one of eight regional entities with delegated authority from the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) for the purpose of proposing and enforcing reliability standards approved by NERC within the SERC region. SERC is divided geographically into five diverse sub-regions that are identified as Central, Delta, Gateway, Southeastern and VACAR. The regional entities and all members of NERC work to safeguard the reliability of the bulk power systems throughout North America. For a discussion of the impact certain legislative and regulatory initiatives may have on SCE&G’s transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

Fuel Costs and Fuel Supply 

The average cost of various fuels and the weighted average cost of all fuels (including oil) for the years 2007-2009 follow: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

9 

Table of Contents  

The sources and percentages of total MWh generation by each category of fuel for the years 2007-2009 and the estimates for the years 2010-2012 follow: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Six of the seven fossil fuel-fired plants use coal. Unit trains and, in some cases, trucks and barges deliver coal to these plants. 

As coal costs increased and gas prices decreased during 2009, SCE&G’s mix of generation dispatched shifted. 

Coal is obtained through long-term supply contracts and spot market purchases. Long-term contracts exist with 11 suppliers located in eastern Kentucky, Tennessee and West Virginia. These contracts provide for approximately 5.6 million tons annually, which is 98% of total expected coal purchases for 2010. Sulfur restrictions on the contract coal range from 1% to 2%. These contracts expire at various times through 2012. Spot market purchases are expected to continue when needed or when prices are believed to be favorable. 

SCANA and SCE&G believe that SCE&G’s operations comply with all existing regulations relating to the discharge of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. See additional discussion at Environmental Matters in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCE&G has adequate supplies of uranium or enriched uranium product under contract to manufacture nuclear fuel for Summer Station Unit 1 through 2016. The following table summarizes contract commitments for the stages of nuclear fuel assemblies: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(a) A region represents approximately one-third to one-half of the nuclear core in the reactor at any one time. Region 21 was loaded 

 in 2009. 

SCE&G can store spent nuclear fuel on-site until at least 2018 and expects to expand its storage capacity to accommodate the spent fuel output for the life of Summer Station through dry cask storage or other technology as it becomes available. In addition, Summer Station has sufficient on-site storage capacity to permit storage of the entire reactor core in the event that complete unloading should become desirable or necessary. For information about the contract with the DOE regarding disposal of spent fuel, see Hazardous and Solid Wastes within the Environmental Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G.  

GAS OPERATIONS 

Gas Sales-Regulated 

Regulated sales of natural gas by customer classification as a percent of total regulated gas revenues sold or transported for 2008 and 2009 were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

10 

Table of Contents  

For the three-year period 2010-2012, SCANA projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in DTs to increase 1.4% annually (assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in DT sales include residential of 2.1%, commercial of 1.1% and industrial of 1.8%. 

For the three-year period 2010-2012, SCE&G projects total consolidated sales of regulated natural gas in DTs to increase 1.4% annually (assuming normal weather). Annual projected increases over such period in DT sales include residential of 0.2%, commercial of 0.3% and industrial of 3.2%. 

For the three-year period 2010-2012, SCANA’s and SCE&G’s total consolidated regulated natural gas customer base is projected to increase annually 2.4% and 1.2%, respectively. During 2009 SCANA recorded a net increase of approximately 7,700 regulated gas customers (growth rate of 1.0%), increasing its regulated gas customers to approximately 782,000. Of this increase, SCE&G recorded a net increase of approximately 2,600 gas customers (growth rate of 0.9%), increasing its total gas customers to approximately 310,000 (as of December 31, 2009). 

Demand for gas changes primarily due to the effect of weather and the price relationship between gas and alternate fuels. 

Gas Cost, Supply and Curtailment Plans 

South Carolina 

SCE&G purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers in both the spot and long-term markets. The gas is delivered to South Carolina through firm transportation agreements with Southern Natural (expiring in 2012), Transco (expiring in 2012 and 2017) and CGT (expiring in 2011 and 2012). The maximum daily volume of gas that SCE&G is entitled to transport under these contracts is 161,144 DT from Southern Natural, 64,652 DT from Transco and 314,529 DT from CGT. Additional natural gas volumes may be delivered to SCE&G’s system as capacity is available through interruptible transportation. In addition, SCE&G, under contract with SEMI, is entitled to receive up to a daily contract demand of 120,000 DT for use in either electric generation or for resale to SCE&G’s customers. 

The daily volume of gas that SEMI is entitled to transport under its service agreement with CGT (expiring in 2023) on a firm basis is 198,083 DT. 

SCE&G purchased natural gas at an average cost of $7.01 per MCF during 2009 and $10.50 per MCF during 2008. 

SCE&G was allocated 5,437 MMCF of natural gas storage capacity on Southern Natural and Transco. Approximately 4,100 MMCF of gas were in storage on December 31, 2009. To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, SCE&G supplements its supplies of natural gas with two LNG liquefaction and storage facilities. The LNG plants are capable of storing the liquefied equivalent of 1,880 MMCF of natural gas. Approximately 1,800 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage on December 31, 2009. 

North Carolina 

PSNC Energy purchases natural gas under contracts with producers and marketers on a short-term basis at current prices and on a long-term basis for reliability assurance at index prices plus a reservation charge. Transco and Dominion deliver the gas to North Carolina through transportation agreements with expiration dates ranging through 2016. On a peak day, PSNC Energy may transport daily volumes of gas under these contracts on a firm basis of 259,894 DT from Transco and 7,331 DT from Dominion. 

PSNC Energy purchased natural gas at an average cost of $6.02 per DT during 2009 compared to $10.65 per DT during 2008. 

To meet the requirements of its high priority natural gas customers during periods of maximum demand, PSNC Energy supplements its supplies of natural gas with underground natural gas storage services and LNG peaking services. Underground natural gas storage service agreements with Dominion, Columbia Gas Transmission, Transco and Spectra Energy provide for storage capacity of approximately 13,000 MMCF. Approximately 9,300 MMCF of gas were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2009. In addition, PSNC Energy’s LNG facility can store the liquefied equivalent of 1,000 MMCF of natural gas with regasification capability of approximately 100 MMCF per day. Approximately 900 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of gas were in storage at December 31, 2009. LNG storage service agreements with Transco, Cove Point LNG and Pine Needle LNG provide for 1,300 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) of storage space. Approximately 1,100 MMCF (liquefied equivalent) were in storage under these agreements at December 31, 2009. 

SCANA and SCE&G believe that supplies under long-term contracts and supplies available for spot market purchase are adequate to meet existing customer demands and to accommodate growth. 

11 

Table of Contents  

Gas Marketing-Nonregulated 

SEMI markets natural gas and provides energy-related risk management services primarily in the Southeast. In addition, SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, markets natural gas to over 455,000 customers (as of December 31, 2009) in Georgia’s natural gas market. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximately 30% share of the approximately 1.5 million customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. 

Risk Management 

SCANA and SCE&G have established policies and procedures and risk limits to control the level of market, credit, liquidity and operational and administrative risks assumed by them. SCANA's Board of Directors has delegated to a Risk Management Committee the authority to set risk limits, establish policies and procedures for risk management and measurement, and to oversee and review the risk management process and infrastructure for SCANA and each of its subsidiaries. The Risk Management Committee, which is comprised of certain officers, including a Risk Management Officer and several senior officers, apprises the Board of Directors with regard to the management of risk and brings to the Board’s attention any areas of concern. Written policies define the physical and financial transactions that are approved, as well as the authorization requirements and limits for transactions. 

REGULATION 

SCANA is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters and is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) as to certain acquisitions and other matters. 

SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters; the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and other matters; and FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, certain acquisitions and other matters. 

GENCO is subject to the jurisdiction of the SCPSC as to issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, accounting, certain acquisitions and other matters. 

PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC) as to gas rates, service, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters. 

CGT is subject to the jurisdiction of FERC as to transportation rates, service, accounting and other matters. 

SCANA Energy is regulated by the GPSC through its certification as a natural gas marketer in Georgia and specifically is subject to the jurisdiction of the GPSC as to retail prices for customers served under the regulated provider contract. 

SCE&G and GENCO are subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, administered by FERC and DOE, in the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and in the sale of electric energy at wholesale for resale, as well as with respect to licensed hydroelectric projects and certain other matters, including accounting. See the Regulatory Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCE&G and GENCO have obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness (pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue up to $700 million of unsecured promissory notes or commercial paper with maturity dates of one year or less, and GENCO may issue up to $100 million of such short-term indebtedness. The authority to make such issuances will expire on February 5, 2012. 

SCE&G holds licenses under the Federal Power Act for each of its hydroelectric projects. The licenses expire as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The current license for the Saluda project expires August 31, 2010. SCE&G applied to FERC for relicensing of the Saluda project on August 27, 2008. This application is currently being reviewed by FERC. SCE&G expects a decision by FERC in August 2010. 

12 

Table of Contents  

At the termination of a license under the Federal Power Act, FERC may extend or issue a new license to the previous licensee, may issue a license to another applicant or the federal government may take over the related project. If the federal government takes over a project or if FERC issues a license to another applicant, the federal government or the new licensee, as the case may be, must pay the previous licensee an amount equal to its net investment in the project, not to exceed fair value, plus severance damages. 

 For a discussion of legislative and regulatory initiatives being implemented that will affect SCE&G’s transmission system, see Electric Operations within the Overview section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCE&G is subject to regulation by the NRC with respect to the ownership, construction, operation and decommissioning of its currently operating and planned nuclear generating facilities. The NRC’s jurisdiction encompasses broad supervisory and regulatory powers over the construction and operation of nuclear reactors, including matters of health and safety, antitrust considerations and environmental impact. In addition, the Federal Emergency Management Agency reviews, in conjunction with the NRC, certain aspects of emergency planning relating to the operation of nuclear plants. 

RATE MATTERS 

For a discussion of the impact of various rate matters, see the Regulatory Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G, and Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G. 

SCE&G’s gas rate schedules for its residential, small commercial and small industrial customers include a Weather Normalization Adjustment (WNA) approved by the SCPSC which is in effect for bills rendered for billing cycles in November through April. The WNA increases tariff rates if weather is warmer than normal and decreases rates if weather is colder than normal. The WNA does not change the seasonality of gas revenues, but reduces fluctuations in revenues and earnings caused by abnormal weather. 

PSNC Energy is authorized by the NCUC to utilize a CUT, a rate decoupling mechanism that breaks the link between revenues and the amount of natural gas sold. The CUT allows PSNC Energy to periodically adjust its base rates for residential and commercial customers based on average per customer consumption whether impacted by weather or other factors.  

In January 2010, SCE&G filed an application with SCPSC requesting a 9.52% overall increase to retail electric base rates. If approved, the increase in rates would be phased in over three periods in July 2010, January 2011 and July 2011. A public hearing on this matter is scheduled to begin on May 24, 2010. 

In February 2009, the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s combined application pursuant to the Base Load Review Act (the BLRA) seeking a certificate of environmental compatibility and public convenience and necessity and for a base load review order relating to proposed construction and operation by SCE&G and Santee Cooper of two new nuclear generating units at Summer Station. Under the BLRA, the SCPSC conducted a full pre-construction prudency review of the proposed units and the engineering, procurement, and construction contract under which they are being built. The SCPSC prudency finding is binding on all future related rate proceedings so long as the construction proceeds in accordance with schedules, estimates and projections, including contingencies, as approved by the SCPSC. As part of its order, the SCPSC approved the initial rate increase of $7.8 million, or 0.4%, related to recovery of the cost of capital on project expenditures through June 30, 2008, and the revised rates became effective for bills rendered on and after March 29, 2009. In addition, SCE&G is allowed to file revised rates with the SCPSC each year to incorporate the financing cost of any incremental construction work in progress incurred for new nuclear generation. Requested rate adjustments are based on SCE&G’s updated cost of debt and capital structure and on an allowed return on common equity of 11%. In May 2009, two intervenors filed separate appeals of the order (one of which challenged the SCPSC’s prudency finding) with the South Carolina Supreme Court. A hearing for one appeal is set for March 4, 2010, and the hearing for the other appeal has not been set. SCE&G cannot predict how or when the appeals will be resolved. In September 2009, the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s first annual revised rate request under the BLRA which constituted a $22.5 million or 1.1% increase to retail electric rates. In January 2010, the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s request under the BLRA to approve an updated construction and capital cost schedule for the new units. The revised schedule does not change the previously announced completion date for the new units or the originally announced cost. 

Fuel Cost Recovery Procedures 

In June 2009, SCE&G filed a request with the SCPSC for approval of certain demand reduction and energy efficiency programs (DSM programs). SCE&G has requested the establishment of an annual rider to allow recovery of the costs and lost net margin revenue associated with DSM programs along with an incentive for investing in such programs. The SCPSC has scheduled a hearing on SCE&G’s request for April 1, 2010. 

13 

Table of Contents  

The SCPSC’s fuel cost recovery procedure determines the fuel component in SCE&G’s retail electric base rates annually based on projected fuel costs for the ensuing 12-month period, adjusted for any over-collection or under-collection from the preceding 12-month period. The statutory definition of fuel costs includes certain variable environmental costs, such as ammonia, lime, limestone and catalysts consumed in reducing or treating emissions. The definition also includes the cost of emission allowances used for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, mercury and particulates. SCE&G may request a formal proceeding at any time should circumstances dictate such a review. In April 2009, the SCPSC approved a settlement agreement between SCE&G and the South Carolina Office of Regulatory Staff (ORS) and others, whereby SCE&G increased the fuel cost portion of its electric rates effective with the first billing cycle of May 2009. As part of the settlement, SCE&G agreed to spread the recovery of then under- collected fuel costs over a three-year period ending April 2012. SCE&G is allowed to collect interest on the deferred balance. 

SCE&G’s tariffs include a purchased gas adjustment (PGA) clause that provides for the recovery of actual gas cost incurred, including costs related to hedging natural gas purchasing activities. SCE&G’s rates are calculated using a methodology which adjusts the cost of gas monthly based on a twelve-month rolling average. 

 PSNC Energy is subject to a Rider D rate mechanism which allows it to recover, in any manner authorized by the NCUC, losses on negotiated gas and transportation sales. The Rider D rate mechanism also allows PSNC Energy to recover from customers all prudently incurred gas costs and certain uncollectible expenses related to gas cost. 

PSNC Energy’s rates are established using a benchmark cost of gas approved by the NCUC, which may be adjusted periodically to reflect changes in the market price of natural gas. PSNC Energy revises its tariffs with the NCUC as necessary to track these changes, and accounts for any over- or under-collections of the delivered cost of gas in its deferred accounts for subsequent rate consideration. The NCUC reviews PSNC Energy’s gas purchasing practices annually. 

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

Federal and state authorities have imposed environmental regulations and standards relating primarily to air emissions, wastewater discharges and solid, toxic and hazardous waste management. Developments in these areas may require that equipment and facilities be modified, supplemented or replaced. The ultimate effect of these regulations and standards upon existing and proposed operations cannot be predicted. For a more complete discussion of how these regulations and standards impact SCANA and SCE&G, see the Environmental Matters section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for SCANA and SCE&G and Note 11B to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G. 

OTHER MATTERS 

For a discussion of SCE&G’s insurance coverage for Summer Station, see Note 11A to the consolidated financial statements for SCANA and SCE&G. 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS