ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 

 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

OVERVIEW 

SCANA, through its wholly-owned regulated subsidiaries, is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in parts of South Carolina and in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Through a wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiary, SCANA markets natural gas to retail customers in Georgia and to wholesale customers primarily in the southeast. Other wholly-owned nonregulated subsidiaries provide fiber optic and other telecommunications services and provide service contracts to homeowners on certain home appliances and heating and air conditioning units. A service company subsidiary of SCANA provides administrative, management and other services to SCANA and its subsidiaries. 

The following map indicates areas where the Company’s significant business segments conduct their activities, as further described in this overview section. 

28 

Table of Contents  

The following percentages reflect revenues and income available to common shareholders earned by the Company’s regulated and nonregulated businesses and the percentage of total assets held by them. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Key Earnings Drivers and Outlook  

During 2009, the southeast continued to suffer from the effects of the recession. At December 31, 2009 preliminary estimates of seasonally adjusted unemployment for the states in which the Company primarily provides service were 10.3% in Georgia, 11.2% in North Carolina and 12.6% in South Carolina. These rates are significantly higher than rates at December 31, 2008. Customer growth rates remained positive, but sluggish, throughout 2009 in most regulated business segments. In addition, the regulated business segments continued to experience declines in customer usage. Our nonregulated natural gas marketer in Georgia experienced a slight reduction in retail customers during the year as intense competition and economic distress continued. The Company expects that any economic recovery will be slow in 2010, and cannot determine when or if customer growth and usage trends may return to pre-2008 levels. 

Over the next five years, key earnings drivers for the Company will be additions to rate base at South Carolina Electric & Gas Company (SCE&G), Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation (CGT) and Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated (PSNC Energy), consisting primarily of capital expenditures for environmental facilities, new generating capacity and system expansion. Other factors that will impact future earnings growth include the regulatory environment, customer growth and usage in each of the regulated utility businesses, earnings in the natural gas marketing business in Georgia and the level of growth of operation and maintenance expenses and taxes. 

Electric Operations 

The electric operations segment is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, South Carolina Generating Company, Inc. (GENCO) and South Carolina Fuel Company, Inc. (Fuel Company), and is primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in South Carolina. At December 31, 2009 SCE&G provided electricity to approximately 655,000 customers in an area covering nearly 17,000 square miles. GENCO owns a coal-fired generating station and sells electricity solely to SCE&G. Fuel Company acquires, owns and provides financing for SCE&G’s nuclear fuel, fossil fuel and emission allowance requirements. 

Operating results for electric operations are primarily driven by customer demand for electricity, the ability to control costs and rates allowed to be charged to customers. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. SCE&G’s allowed return on equity is 11.0%. Demand for electricity is primarily affected by weather, customer growth and the economy. SCE&G is able to recover the cost of fuel used in electric generation through retail customers’ bills, but increases in fuel costs affect electric prices and, therefore, the competitive position of electricity against other energy sources. 

In 2008, SCE&G contracted with Westinghouse Electric Company LLC and Stone & Webster, Inc. for the design and construction of two 1,117-megawatt nuclear electric generating units at the site of V. C. Summer Nuclear Station (Summer Station). SCE&G and South Carolina Public Service Authority (Santee Cooper) will be joint owners and share operating costs and generation output of the units, with SCE&G accounting for 55 percent of the cost and output and Santee Cooper the remaining 45 percent. Assuming timely receipt of federal approvals and construction proceeding as scheduled, the first unit is expected to be completed and in service in 2016, and the second in 2019. The successful completion of the project would result in an increase of the Company’s utility plant in service of approximately 58% over its 2009 level. Financing and managing the construction of these plants, together with continuing environmental construction projects, represents a significant challenge to the Company. 

29 

Table of Contents  

  In February 2009, the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s combined application pursuant to the Base Load Review Act (the BLRA) seeking a certificate of environmental compatibility and public convenience and necessity and for a base load review order relating to proposed construction and operation by SCE&G and Santee Cooper of two new nuclear generating units at Summer Station. Under the BLRA, the SCPSC conducted a full pre-construction prudency review of the proposed units and the engineering, procurement, and construction contract under which they are being built. The SCPSC prudency finding is binding on all future related rate proceedings so long as the construction proceeds in accordance with schedules, estimates and projections, including contingencies, as approved by the SCPSC. As part of its order, the SCPSC approved the initial rate increase of $7.8 million, or 0.4%, related to recovery of the cost of capital on project expenditures through June 30, 2008, and the revised rates became effective for bills rendered on and after March 29, 2009. In addition, SCE&G is allowed to file revised rates with the SCPSC each year to incorporate the financing cost of any incremental construction work in progress incurred for new nuclear generation. Requested rate adjustments are based on SCE&G’s updated cost of debt and capital structure and on an allowed return on common equity of 11%. In May 2009, two intervenors filed separate appeals of the order (one of which challenged the SCPSC’s prudency finding) with the South Carolina Supreme Court. A hearing for one appeal is set for March 4, 2010, and the hearing for the other appeal has not been set. SCE&G cannot predict how or when the appeals will be resolved. In September 2009, the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s first annual revised rate request under the BLRA which constituted a $22.5 million or 1.1% increase to retail electric rates. In January 2010, the SCPSC approved SCE&G’s request under the BLRA to approve an updated construction and capital cost schedule for the new units. The revised schedule does not change the previously announced completion date for the new units or the originally announced cost. 

  In March 2008, SCE&G and Santee Cooper filed an application with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for a combined construction and operating license (COL). This COL application for the two new units was reviewed for completeness by the NRC and docketed on July 31, 2008. In September 2008 the NRC issued a 30-month review schedule from the docketing date to the issuance of the safety evaluation report which would signify satisfactory completion of their review. Both the environmental and safety reviews by the NRC are in progress and should support a COL issuance in late 2011 or early 2012. This date would support both the project schedule and the substantial completion dates for the two new units in 2016 and 2019, respectively. 

The Company expects that significant legislative or regulatory initiatives regarding energy, will be undertaken, particularly at the federal level. These initiatives may require the Company to build or otherwise acquire generating capacity from energy sources that exclude fossil fuels, nuclear or hydro facilities (for example, under a renewable portfolio standard or “RPS”). New legislation or regulations may also impose stringent requirements on existing power plants to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury. It is also possible that new initiatives will be introduced to reduce carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation or regulations will be enacted, and if they are, the conditions they would impose on utilities. 

The EPA has publicly stated its intention to propose new federal regulations affecting the management and disposal of coal combustion products (CCP), such as ash, in 2010. Such regulations could result in the treatment of some CCPs as hazardous waste and could impose significant costs to utilities, such as SCE&G and GENCO. While the Company cannot predict how extensive the regulations will be, the Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates. 

Gas Distribution 

The gas distribution segment is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy and is primarily engaged in the purchase, transmission and sale of natural gas to retail customers in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. At December 31, 2009 this segment provided natural gas to approximately 783,000 customers in areas covering 37,000 square miles. 

Operating results for gas distribution are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, the ability to control costs and allowed rates to be charged to customers. Embedded in the rates charged to customers is an allowed regulatory return on equity. 

Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by weather, customer growth, the economy and, for commercial and industrial customers, the availability and price of alternate fuels. Natural gas competes with electricity, propane and heating oil to serve the heating and, to a lesser extent, other household energy needs of residential and small commercial customers. This competition is generally based on price and convenience. Large commercial and industrial customers often have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel, such as propane or fuel oil. Natural gas competes with these alternate fuels based on price. As a result, any significant disparity between supply and demand, either of natural gas or of alternate fuels, and due either to production or delivery disruptions or other factors, will affect price and impact the Company’s ability to retain large commercial and industrial customers. Significant supply disruptions occurred in September and October 2005 as a result of hurricane activity in the Gulf of Mexico, resulting in the curtailment during the period of most large commercial and industrial customers with interruptible supply agreements. While significant supply disruptions have not been experienced since 2005, the price of natural gas remains volatile. Due to the recession, demand for natural gas has decreased overall, resulting in significantly lower prices for this commodity in 2009. The long-term impact of volatile gas prices and gas supply has not been determined. 

30 

Table of Contents  

Gas Transmission 

CGT operates an open access, transportation-only interstate pipeline company regulated by the United States Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). CGT’s operating results are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas, the ability to control costs and allowed rates to be charged to customers. Demand for CGT’s services is closely linked to demand for natural gas and is affected by the price of alternate fuels and customer growth. CGT provides transportation services to SCE&G for its gas distribution customers and for certain electric generation needs and to SCANA Energy Marketing, Inc. (SEMI) for natural gas marketing. CGT also provides transportation services to other natural gas utilities, municipalities and county gas authorities and to industrial customers. 

 Retail Gas Marketing 

 SCANA Energy, a division of SEMI, comprises the retail gas marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas to over 455,000 customers (as of December 31, 2009, and includes regulated division customers described below) throughout Georgia. SCANA Energy’s total customer base represents an approximately 30% share of the customers in Georgia’s deregulated natural gas market. SCANA Energy remains the second largest natural gas marketer in the state. SCANA Energy’s competitors include affiliates of other large energy companies with experience in Georgia’s energy market, as well as several electric membership cooperatives. SCANA Energy’s ability to maintain its market share depends on the prices it charges customers relative to the prices charged by its competitors, its ability to continue to provide high levels of customer service and other factors. 

As Georgia’s regulated provider, SCANA Energy provides service to low-income customers and customers unable to obtain or maintain natural gas service from other marketers at rates approved by the Georgia Public Service Commission (GPSC), and SCANA Energy receives funding from the Universal Service Fund to offset some of the bad debt associated with the low-income group. SCANA Energy’s contract to serve as Georgia’s regulated provider of natural gas ends on August 31, 2011. SCANA Energy files financial and other information periodically with the GPSC, and such information is available at www.psc.state.ga.us (which is not intended as an active hyperlink; the information on the GPSC website is not part of this or any other report filed with the SEC). Included in the above customer count, SCANA Energy’s regulated division served over 90,000 customers (as of December 31, 2009). 

SCANA Energy and SCANA’s other natural gas distribution and marketing segments maintain gas inventory and also utilize forward contracts and other financial instruments, including commodity swaps and futures contracts, to manage their exposure to fluctuating commodity natural gas prices. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. As a part of this risk management process, at any given time, a portion of SCANA’s projected natural gas needs has been purchased or otherwise placed under contract. Since SCANA Energy operates in a competitive market, it may be unable to sustain its current levels of customers and/or pricing, thereby reducing expected margins and profitability. Further, there can be no assurance that Georgia’s gas delivery regulatory framework will remain unchanged as dynamic market conditions evolve. 

Energy Marketing 

The divisions of SEMI, excluding SCANA Energy (Energy Marketing), comprise the energy marketing segment. This segment markets natural gas primarily in the southeast and provides energy-related risk management services to customers. 

The operating results for energy marketing are primarily influenced by customer demand for natural gas and the ability to control costs. Demand for natural gas is primarily affected by the price of alternate fuels and customer growth. In addition, certain pipeline capacity available for Energy Marketing to serve industrial and other customers is dependent upon the market share held by SCANA Energy in the retail market. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Earnings per share decreased in 2009 due to lower electric margin of $.09, lower gas margin of $.05, higher depreciation expense of $.05, lower gains on asset sales of $.05, higher interest expense of $.03, higher property taxes of $.05, dilution from additional shares outstanding of $.12 and by $.05 of other items explained in the following pages. These items were partially offset by $.11 due to the tax benefit and related interest income arising from the resolution of an income tax uncertainty in favor of the Company, by $.18 due to lower operation and maintenance expenses and by $.12 due to increased equity allowance for funds using during construction.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Earnings per share increased in 2008 due to higher electric margin of $.41 and higher gas margin of $.16. These items were partially offset by $.11 due to higher interest expense, by $.14 due to higher operating expenses and by other items explained in the following pages.    

31 

Table of Contents   

Pension Cost (Income)  

Pension cost (income) was recorded on the Company’s financial statements as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The Company recorded significant pension income in each of 2008 and 2007. Due to the significant decline in plan asset values during the fourth quarter of 2008 stemming from turmoil in the financial markets, the Company recorded significant pension cost in 2009. However, no contribution to the pension trust was necessary in or for 2009, nor did limitations on benefit payments apply. 

Additionally, in February 2009, SCE&G was granted accounting orders by the SCPSC which allow it to mitigate a significant portion of this increased pension cost by deferring as a regulatory asset the amount of pension expense above the level of pension income which is included in current rates for its retail electric and gas distribution regulated operations. These costs are being deferred until future rate filings, at which time the accumulated deferred costs will be addressed prospectively. See further information at Liquidity and Capital Resources and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. 

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFC) 

AFC is a utility accounting practice whereby a portion of the cost of both equity and borrowed funds used to finance construction (which is shown on the balance sheet as construction work in progress) is capitalized. The Company includes an equity portion of AFC in nonoperating income and a debt portion of AFC in interest charges (credits) as noncash items, both of which have the effect of increasing reported net income. AFC represented approximately 9.8% of income before income taxes in 2009, 5.6% in 2008 and 3.3% in 2007. 

Electric Operations 

Electric Operations is comprised of the electric operations of SCE&G, GENCO and Fuel Company. Electric operations sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Margin decreased by $6.6 million due to lower residential and commercial usage (including the partially offsetting effects of favorable weather), by $11.9 million due to lower industrial sales, by lower off-system sales of $15.9 million. Margin also decreased by $13.6 million due to the adoption of new, lower SCPSC-approved electric depreciation rates, the effect of which was offset within operating revenues. The decreases were partially offset by higher residential and commercial customer growth of $6.2 million and by increases in base rates by the SCPSC under the BLRA of $10.8 million which became effective for bills rendered on or after March 29, 2009.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Margin increased by $74.5 million due to increased retail electric rates that went into effect in January 2008 and by $16.6 million due to residential and commercial customer growth. These increases were offset by $5.4 million due to lower off-system sales, by $3.5 million due to lower industrial sales and by $10.0 million in lower residential and commercial usage.    

32 

Table of Contents  

Megawatt hour (MWh) sales volumes related to the electric margin above, by class, were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Territorial sales volumes decreased by 95 MWh due to decreased average use, partially offset by favorable weather, and by 828 MWh due to lower industrial sales volumes as a result of a recessionary economy, partially offset by an increase of 76 MWh due to residential and commercial customer growth. NMST volumes decreased due to lower regional demand.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Territorial sales volumes decreased by 252 MWh due to weather and by 115 MWh due to lower industrial sales volumes as a result of a recessionary economy, partially offset by an increase of 238 MWh due to residential and commercial customer growth.    

Gas Distribution 

Gas Distribution is comprised of the local distribution operations of SCE&G and PSNC Energy. Gas distribution sales margins (including transactions with affiliates) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Margin increased by $2.7 million due to SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates at SCE&G which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2008, by $3.7 million due to SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2009, offset by a decrease of $3.0 million due to decreased customer usage at SCE&G. The NCUC-approved rate increase at PSNC Energy, for services rendered on or after November 1, 2008, increased margin by $6.6 million.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Margin increased by $3.6 million due to SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates at SCE&G which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2007, by $1.1 million due to SCPSC-approved increase in retail gas base rates which became effective with the first billing cycle of November 2008, and by $2.4 million due to other customer growth at SCE&G. The NCUC-approved rate increase at PSNC Energy, for services rendered on or after November 1, 2008, increased margin by $2.5 million, while an increase in normalized customer usage contributed $5.0 million and customer growth added $4.9 million.    

Dekatherm (DT) sales volumes by class, including transportation gas, were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Residential sales volume increased primarily due to customer growth and weather. Commercial and industrial sales volume decreased primarily as a result of weak economic conditions.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Residential, commercial and transportation gas sales volume increased primarily due to customer growth. Industrial gas sales volume decreased primarily due to a loss of customers as a result of a recessionary economy.    

33 

Table of Contents  

Gas Transmission 

Gas Transmission is comprised of the operations of CGT. Transportation revenue is generally based upon contracts to reserve long-term capacity and is not fully dependent upon volumes. Gas transmission transportation revenue (including transactions with affiliates) was as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Transportation revenue increased in 2009 due to additional sales of firm transportation capacity.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   In 2008 the transportation revenue was unchanged from 2007.    

Transportation volumes totaled 111.3 million DT in 2009, 107.9 million DT in 2008 and 108.6 million DT in 2007. Transportation volumes increased in 2009 due to increased use of natural gas-fired electric generation as a result of lower gas prices. Transportation volumes decreased in 2008 as a result of lower gas-fired electric generation, primarily due to milder weather and a slowing economy.  

Retail Gas Marketing 

Retail Gas Marketing is comprised of SCANA Energy which operates in Georgia’s natural gas market. Retail Gas Marketing revenues and net income were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Operating revenues decreased as a result of lower average retail prices and volumes. Net income decreased due to lower margin, partially offset by lower bad debt, and the costs of a 2008 GPSC settlement related to operation of pricing plans.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Operating revenues increased primarily as a result of higher average retail prices and volumes. Net income increased primarily due to higher margin and lower bad debt expense, partially offset by the costs of a GPSC settlement.    

 Delivered volumes totaled 34.7 million DT in 2009, 35.6 million DT in 2008 and 34.1 million DT in 2007. 

Energy Marketing 

Energy Marketing is comprised of the Company’s nonregulated marketing operations, excluding SCANA Energy. Energy Marketing operating revenues and net income were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Operating revenues decreased primarily due to lower market prices. Net income increased due to lower operating expenses, including bad debts.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Operating revenues increased primarily due to higher market prices which more than offset the decrease in sales volumes. Net income decreased due to higher operating expenses, including bad debts.    

Delivered volumes totaled 162.9 million DT in 2009, 152.7 million DT in 2008 and 154.9 million DT in 2007. Delivered volumes increased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily as a result of increased power generation sales. Delivered volumes decreased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily as a result of decreased sales due to milder weather. 

34 

Table of Contents  

Other Operating Expenses 

Other operating expenses arising from the operating segments previously discussed were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Other operation and maintenance expenses decreased by $9.0 million due to lower generation, transmission and distribution expenses, by $6.2 million due to lower incentive compensation and other benefits, by $12.4 million due to lower customer service expenses and general expenses, including bad debt expense, and by $2.5 million due to decreased legal expenses and settlement costs related to SCANA Energy’s settlement with GPSC in 2008. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $13.6 million due to the implementation of new, lower SCPSC-approved electric depreciation rates in 2009, offset by higher depreciation expense of $9.5 million due to 2009 net property additions. Other taxes increased primarily due to higher property taxes.    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Other operation and maintenance expenses increased by $2.6 million due to higher generation, transmission and distribution expenses, by $8.9 million due to higher incentive compensation and other benefits, by $6.4 million due to higher customer service expense, including bad debt expense, by $2.0 million due to lower pension income and by $2.6 million due to increased legal expenses related to SCANA Energy’s settlement with the GPSC. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $4.6 million due to the 2007 expiration of the synthetic fuel tax credit program (see Income Taxes - Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits) and by $8.5 million due to the 2007 expiration of a three-year amortization of previously deferred purchased power costs, partially offset by increased depreciation expense of $10.3 million due to 2008 net property additions. Other taxes increased primarily due to higher property taxes.    

Other Income (Expense) 

Other income (expense) includes the results of certain incidental (non-utility) activities and the activities of certain non-regulated subsidiaries. Components of other income (expense) were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

  •   2009 vs 2008   Total other income (expense) decreased $10.9 million due to decreased pension income and by $8.9 million due to gain on sale of assets in 2008. These decreases were partially offset by an $8.7 million increase in interest income. (See discussion under “Resolution of EIZ Tax Credit Uncertainty” below).    

  •   2008 vs 2007   Other income decreased by $11.7 million and other expenses decreased by $6.7 million due to management and maintenance services no longer being provided for a non-affiliated synthetic fuel production facility. Other revenues also decreased by $5.8 million due to income from the sale of a bankruptcy claim in 2007.    

 Resolution of EIZ Tax Credit Uncertainty 

SCE&G earned an Economic Impact Zone state income tax credit (EIZ credit) in 1996 based on qualifying property additions. This EIZ credit exceeded the Company’s state tax liability for the 1996 tax year, leaving $15.3 million unused. The Company’s attempt to carry forward the unused credit to tax years 1997 and 1998 was contested by the South Carolina Department of Revenue. In September 2009, the South Carolina Supreme Court decided the matter in the Company’s favor. As a result of the favorable resolution of this uncertainty, the Company recorded the refund for the previously contested EIZ credit of $15.3 million and an additional $14.3 million of interest income.

35 

Table of Contents  

Prior to this favorable Supreme Court decision, and pursuant to accounting guidance concerning income tax uncertainties, the value of the contested credit had not been reflected in the Company’s statement of income. SCE&G’s practice has been to amortize EIZ credits to income over the lives of the properties that gave rise to the credits. Accordingly, upon resolution of this prior uncertainty, the Company recorded a cumulative adjustment in the third quarter 2009 of approximately $6.3 million ($4.0 million after federal tax effect) as a reduction in income taxes. The remainder of these EIZ credits will be amortized to income over the remaining life of the related properties that gave rise to the tax benefit, as a reduction in income taxes. The interest income of $14.3 million ($8.8 million after tax effect) was recorded in the third quarter of 2009 within other income. 

Interest Expense 

Components of interest expense, net of the debt component of AFC, were as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Interest on long-term debt increased in each year primarily due to increased long-term borrowings over the prior year. Other interest expense decreased in each year primarily due to lower principal balances on short-term debt over the prior year. 

Income Taxes 

Income tax expense decreased in 2009 primarily due to the recognition of a tax benefit from the resolution of the EIZ tax credit uncertainty in favor of the Company (see discussion above at Other Income (Expense)) and due to changes in operating income. Income taxes increased in 2008 primarily due to the recognition at SCE&G of $17.4 million in synthetic fuel tax credits in 2007 (see discussion under “Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits” below) and due to changes in operating income. 

Recognition of Synthetic Fuel Tax Credits 

SCE&G held equity-method investments in two partnerships that were involved in converting coal to synthetic fuel, the use of which fuel qualified for federal income tax credits. Under an accounting methodology approved by the SCPSC, construction costs related to the Lake Murray back-up dam project were recorded in utility plant in service in a special dam remediation account, outside of rate base, and accelerated depreciation was recognized against the balance in this account, subject to the availability of the synthetic fuel tax credits. The synthetic fuel tax credit program expired at the end of 2007. 

For 2007, the level of depreciation expense and related tax benefit recognized in the income statement was equal to the available synthetic fuel tax credits, less partnership losses and other expenses, net of taxes. As a result, the balance of unrecovered costs in the dam remediation account declined as accelerated depreciation was recorded. Although these entries collectively had no impact on consolidated net income, they did impact individual line items within the 2007 income statement, as follows: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Available credits were not sufficient to fully recover the construction costs of dam remediation; therefore, recovery of remaining costs is being sought in connection with a retail electric rate application filed with the SCPSC in January 2010. In addition, SCE&G records non-cash carrying costs on the unrecovered investment which amounts were $5.4 million in 2009, $5.5 million in 2008 and $5.6 million in 2007. As of December 31, 2009, remaining unrecovered costs were $75.5 million and were recorded as a regulatory asset within Utility Plant. The Company expects these costs to be recoverable through rates. 

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 

The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds, the incurrence of additional short- and long-term indebtedness and sales of equity securities. The Company expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the foreseeable future. The Company’s ratio of earnings to fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 2009 was 2.84.  

36 

Table of Contents  

Cash requirements for SCANA’s regulated subsidiaries arise primarily from their operational needs, funding their construction programs and payment of dividends to SCANA. The ability of the regulated subsidiaries to replace existing plant investment, to expand to meet future demand for electricity and gas and to install equipment necessary to comply with environmental regulations, will depend on their ability to attract the necessary financial capital on reasonable terms. Regulated subsidiaries recover the costs of providing services through rates charged to customers. Rates for regulated services are generally based on historical costs. As customer growth and inflation occur and these subsidiaries continue their ongoing construction programs, rate increases will be sought. The future financial position and results of operations of the regulated subsidiaries will be affected by their ability to obtain adequate and timely rate and other regulatory relief. 

The Company also obtains equity from SCANA’s stock plans. Shares of SCANA common stock are acquired on behalf of participants in SCANA’s Investor Plus Plan and Stock Purchase-Savings Plan through original issue shares, rather than on the open market. This provided approximately $90 million of additional equity during 2009 and is expected to provide approximately $90 million annually for 2010 and forward. Due primarily to new nuclear construction plans, the Company anticipates keeping this strategy in place for the foreseeable future. 

SCANA’s leverage ratio of debt to capital was approximately 59% at December 31, 2009. SCANA has publicly announced its desire to reduce its present leverage ratio to levels between 54% and 57%, but SCANA’s ability to do so depends on a number of factors. In the future, if SCANA is not able to reduce its leverage ratio, and maintain it within the desired range, the Company’s debt ratings may be affected, it may be required to pay higher interest rates on its long- and short-term indebtedness, and its access to the capital markets may be limited. 

Capital Expenditures 

Cash outlays for property additions and construction expenditures, including nuclear fuel, net of AFC, were $914 million in 2009 and are estimated to be $1.1 billion in 2010. 

The Company’s current estimates of its capital expenditures for construction and nuclear fuel for 2010-2012, which are subject to continuing review and adjustment, are as follows: 

Estimated Capital Expenditures 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

The Company’s contractual cash obligations as of December 31, 2009 are summarized as follows: 

Contractual Cash Obligations 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

37 

Table of Contents   

Included in the table above in purchase obligations is SCE&G’s portion of a contractual agreement for the design and construction of two 1,117-megawatt nuclear electric generation units at the site of Summer Station. SCE&G and Santee Cooper will be joint owners and share operating costs and generation output of the two additional units, with SCE&G accounting for 55 percent of the cost and output and Santee Cooper the remaining 45 percent. Assuming timely receipt of federal approvals and construction proceeding as scheduled, the first unit is expected to be completed and in service in 2016, and the second in 2019. SCE&G’s estimated projected costs for the two additional units, in future dollars and excluding AFC, are summarized below. To the extent that actual contracts were put in place by December 31, 2009, obligations arising from these contracts are included in the purchase obligations within the Contractual Cash Obligations table above. 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

Also included in purchase obligations are customary purchase orders under which the Company has the option to utilize certain vendors without the obligation to do so. The Company may terminate such arrangements without penalty. 

Included in other commercial commitments are estimated obligations under forward contracts for natural gas purchases. Forward contracts for natural gas purchases include customary “make-whole” or default provisions, but are not considered to be “take-or-pay” contracts. Certain of these contracts relate to regulated businesses; therefore, the effects of such contracts on fuel costs are reflected in electric or gas rates. Also included in other commercial commitments is a “take-and-pay” contract for natural gas which expires in 2019 and estimated obligations for coal and nuclear fuel purchases. See Note 11F to the consolidated financial statements. 

In addition to the contractual cash obligations above, the Company sponsors a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan and an unfunded health care and life insurance benefit plan for retirees. The pension plan is adequately funded under current regulations, and no required contributions are anticipated until after 2011. Cash payments under the health care and life insurance benefit plan were $12.0 million in 2009, and such annual payments are expected to be the same or increase up to $14 million in the future. 

In addition, the Company is party to certain New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) futures contracts for which any unfavorable market movements are funded in cash. These derivatives are accounted for as cash flow hedges and their effects are reflected within other comprehensive income until the anticipated sales transactions occur. See further discussion at Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. At December 31, 2009, the Company had posted $0.8 million in cash collateral for such contracts. 

The Company also has a legal obligation associated with the decommissioning and dismantling of Summer Station and other conditional asset retirement obligations that are not listed in the contractual cash obligations table. See Notes 1B and 11G to the consolidated financial statements. 

The Company does not have any recorded or unrecorded tax-related contingencies. 

The Company anticipates that its contractual cash obligations will be met through internally generated funds, issuance of equity and the incurrence of additional short- and long-term debt. The Company expects that it has or can obtain adequate sources of financing to meet its projected cash requirements for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. 

Financing Limits and Related Matters 

The Company’s issuance of various securities, including long-term and short-term debt, is subject to customary approval or authorization by regulatory bodies including state public service commissions and FERC. Descriptions of financing programs currently utilized by the Company follow. 

SCE&G and GENCO have obtained FERC authority to issue short-term indebtedness (pursuant to Section 204 of the Federal Power Act). SCE&G may issue up to $700 million of unsecured promissory notes or commercial paper with maturity dates of one year or less, and GENCO may issue up to $100 million of short-term indebtedness. The authority to make such issuances will expire on February 5, 2012. 

38 

Table of Contents  

  At December 31, 2009, SCANA, SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy had available the following committed lines of credit (LOC) and had outstanding the following LOC advances, commercial paper, and LOC-supported letter of credit obligations: 

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

(a) The Company's committed lines of credit serve to back-up the issuance of commercial paper or to provide liquidity support.  

 Nuclear and fossil fuel inventories and emission allowances are financed through the issuance by Fuel Company of 

 short-term commercial paper or LOC advances. 

  (b)   SCE&G, Fuel Company and PSNC Energy may issue commercial paper in the amounts of up to $350 million,    

 $250 million and $250 million, respectively. 

 The committed long-term facilities are revolving lines of credit under credit agreements with a syndicate of banks. Wachovia Bank, National Association and Bank of America, N. A. each provide 14.3% of the aggregate $1.1 billion credit facilities, Branch Banking and Trust Company, UBS Loan Finance LLC, Morgan Stanley Bank, and Credit Suisse each provide 10.9%, and The Bank of New York and Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd each provide 9.1%. Four other banks provide the remaining 9.6%. These bank credit facilities support the issuance of commercial paper by SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy. In addition, a portion of the credit facilities supports SCANA’s borrowing needs. When the commercial paper markets are dislocated (due to either price or availability constraints), the credit facilities are available to support the borrowing needs of SCE&G (including Fuel Company) and PSNC Energy. 

Challenging conditions during late 2008 and early 2009 tested the Company’s liquidity and its ability to access short-term funding sources. During this period, all of the banks in the Company’s revolving credit facilities fully funded draws requested of them. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had borrowed $100 million from its $1.1 billion credit facilities, had approximately $335 million in commercial paper borrowings outstanding was obligated under $3 million in LOC supported letters of credit, and held approximately $162 million in cash and temporary investments. The Company regularly monitors the commercial paper and short-term credit markets to optimize the timing for repayment of the outstanding balance on its draws, while maintaining appropriate levels of liquidity. 

At December 31, 2009, the Company had net available liquidity of approximately $823 million, and the Company’s revolving credit facilities are in place until December 2011. The Company’s overall debt portfolio has a weighted average maturity of over 15 years and bears an average cost of 5.83%. A significant portion of long-term debt, other than credit facility draws, effectively bears fixed interest rates or is swapped to fixed. To further preserve liquidity, the Company rigorously reviews its projected capital expenditures and operating costs and adjusts them where possible without impacting safety, reliability, and core customer service. 

 Neither SCANA’s nor SCE&G’s Restated Articles of Incorporation limit the dividends that may be paid on its common stock. However, SCANA’s junior subordinated indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Hybrids) and SCE&G’s bond indenture (relating to the hereinafter defined Bonds) each contain provisions that, under certain circumstances, which the Company considers to be remote, could limit the payment of cash dividends on their respective common stock. 

With respect to hydroelectric projects, the Federal Power Act requires the appropriation of a portion of certain earnings therefrom. At December 31, 2009, approximately $57 million of retained earnings were restricted by this requirement as to payment of cash dividends on SCE&G’s common stock. 

SCANA Corporation 

SCANA has in effect an indenture which permits the issuance of unsecured debt securities from time to time including its medium-term note debt securities. This indenture contains no specific limit on the amount of unsecured debt securities which may be issued. 

39 

Table of Contents  

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company 

SCE&G is subject to a bond indenture dated April 1, 1993 (Mortgage) covering substantially all of its electric properties under which all of its First Mortgage Bonds (Bonds) have been issued. Bonds may be issued under the Mortgage in an aggregate principal amount not exceeding the sum of (1) 70% of Unfunded Net Property Additions (as therein defined), (2) the aggregate principal amount of retired Bonds and (3) cash deposited with the trustee. Bonds, other than certain Bonds issued on the basis of retired Bonds, may be issued under the Mortgage only if Adjusted Net Earnings (as therein defined) for 12 consecutive months out of the 18 months immediately preceding the month of issuance are at least twice (2.0) the annual interest requirements on all outstanding Bonds and Bonds to be outstanding (Bond Ratio). For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Bond Ratio was 5.18. 

Financing Activities 

During 2009 the Company experienced net cash inflows related to financing activities of approximately $100 million primarily due to issuances of long-term debt and common stock, partially offset by repayment of short-term debt and payment of dividends. 

In December 2009, SCE&G redeemed for cash all outstanding shares of its cumulative preferred stock representing an aggregate par value of $113.4 million. 

In December 2009, SCE&G issued $150 million of First Mortgage Bonds bearing an annual interest rate of 5.50% and maturing on December 15, 2039. Proceeds from the sale were used to finance capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes. 

In November 2009, SCANA issued $150 million of Enhanced Junior Subordinated Notes (Hybrids) bearing an interest rate of 7.70% and maturing on January 30, 2065, subject to extension to January 30, 2080. Because their structure and terms are characteristic of both debt instruments and equity securities, the rating agencies consider securities like the Hybrids to be hybrid debt instruments and give some “equity credit” to the issuers of such securities for purposes of computing leverage ratios. The Hybrids are only subject to redemption at SCANA’s option and may be redeemed at any time, although the redemption prices payable by SCANA differ depending on the timing of the redemption and the circumstances (if any) giving rise thereto. Proceeds from the Hybrids were used to provide SCE&G funds to redeem all of its outstanding shares of preferred stock and for general corporate purposes. 

In connection with the issuance of the Hybrids, SCANA executed a Replacement Capital Covenant (RCC) in favor of the holders of certain designated debt (referred to as “covered debt”). Under the terms of the RCC, SCANA agreed not to redeem or repurchase all or part of the Hybrids prior to the termination date of the RCC, unless it uses the proceeds of certain qualifying securities sold to non-affiliates within 180 days prior to the redemption or repurchase date. The proceeds SCANA receives from such qualifying securities, adjusted by a predetermined factor, must exceed the redemption or repurchase price of the Hybrids. Qualifying securities include common stock, and other securities that generally rank equal to or junior to the Hybrids and include distribution, deferral and long-dated maturity features similar to the Hybrids. For purposes of the RCC, non-affiliates include (but are not limited to) individuals enrolled in SCANA’s dividend reinvestment plan, direct stock purchase plan and employee benefit plans. 

The RCC is scheduled to terminate on the earliest to occur of the following: (a) January 30, 2035 (or later, if the maturity date of the Hybrids is extended), (b) the date on which SCANA no longer has any eligible debt which ranks senior in right of payment to the Hybrids, (c) the date on which the holders of at least a majority in principal amount of “covered debt” agree to the termination thereof or (d) the date on which the Hybrids are accelerated following an event of default with respect thereto. SCANA’s $250 million in Medium Term Notes due April 1, 2020 were initially designated as “covered debt” under the RCC. 

In September 2009, PSNC Energy entered into an agreement to issue and sell $100 million of ten-year unsecured notes. PSNC Energy intends to issue the notes in the first quarter of 2010. 

In June 2009, SCANA issued $30 million of Floating Rate Senior Notes due June 1, 2034. This final installment of notes, together with notes in the same series previously issued in 2007 and 2008, represents total borrowings in the series of $110 million principal amount. Proceeds from these notes were used to finance capital expenditures and for general corporate purposes.  

In March 2009, SCE&G issued $175 million of First Mortgage Bonds bearing an annual interest rate of 6.05% and maturing on January 15, 2038. Proceeds from the sale were used to repay short-term debt and for general corporate purposes. 

In January 2009, SCANA closed on the sale of 2.875 million shares of common stock at $35.50 per share. Proceeds of $100.5 million were used to finance capital expenditures, including the construction of new nuclear units, and for general corporate purposes. In addition, SCANA issued stock valued at $91.1 million (when issued) during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 through various compensation and dividend reinvestment plans. 

For additional information on significant financing activities, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 

In February 2010, SCANA increased the quarterly cash dividend rate on SCANA common stock to $.475 per share, an increase of 1.1% from the prior declared dividend. The dividend declared in February is payable April 1, 2010 to shareholders of record on March 10, 2010. 

40 

Table of Contents  

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS 

The Company’s regulated operations are subject to extensive regulation by various federal and state authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes. Applicable statutes and rules include the Clean Air Act, as amended (CAA), the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), the Clean Water Act (CWA), the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (Nuclear Waste Act) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), among others. Compliance with these environmental requirements involves significant capital and operating costs, which the Company expects to recover through existing ratemaking provisions. 

For the three years ended December 31, 2009, the Company’s capital expenditures for environmental control totaled $585.1 million. These expenditures were in addition to environmental expenditures included in “Other operation and maintenance” expenses, which were $41.5 million during 2009, $44.0 million during 2008, and $34.4 million during 2007. It is not possible to estimate all future costs related to environmental matters, but forecasts for capitalized environmental expenditures for the Company are $13.1 million for 2010 and $48.4 million for the four-year period 2011-2014. These expenditures are included in the Company’s Estimated Capital Expenditures table, are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, and include known costs related to the matters discussed below. 

On June 26, 2009, the United States House of Representatives narrowly passed energy legislation that would mandate significant reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and require electric utilities to generate an increasing percentage of their power from renewable sources. The bill would require, among other things, that GHG emissions be reduced to 17% below 2005 levels by 2020, and to 83% below 2005 levels by 2050. Companies could meet these standards either through emission reductions or by obtaining emission allowances (Cap and Trade). The bill also would impose a renewable energy standard (RES) on the total generation of electric utilities beginning at 6% in 2012 and increasing to 20% by 2020. New nuclear generation would be excluded from the RES total generation baseline calculation, and one quarter of the RES mandate could be met through energy efficiency measures. The United States Senate is also considering legislation that would address GHG emissions and would establish an RES. The Company cannot predict if or when the legislation described above will become law or what requirements would be imposed on the Company by such legislation. The Company expects that any costs incurred to comply with such legislation would be recoverable through rates. 

At the state level, no significant environmental legislation that would affect the Company’s operations advanced during 2009. The Company cannot predict whether such legislation will be introduced or enacted in 2010, or if new regulations or changes to existing regulations at the state or federal level will be implemented in the coming year. 

Air Quality 

With the pervasive emergence of concern over the issue of global climate change as a significant influence upon the economy, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO are subject to certain climate-related financial risks, including those involving regulatory requirements responsive to GHG emissions, as well as those involving physical impacts which could arise from global climate change. Certain other business and financial risks arising from such climate change could also arise. The Company cannot predict all of the climate-related regulatory and physical risks nor the related consequences which might impact the Company, and the following discussion should not be considered all-inclusive. 

From a regulatory perspective, SCANA, SCE&G and GENCO continually monitor and evaluate their current and projected emission levels and strive to comply with all state and federal regulations regarding those emissions. SCE&G and GENCO participate in the sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emission allowance programs with respect to coal plant emissions and also have constructed additional pollution control equipment at several larger coal-fired electric generating plants. Further, SCE&G has announced plans to construct two new nuclear generating plants which are expected to significantly reduce GHG emission levels once they are completed and dispatched, potentially displacing some of the current coal-fired generation sources. 

See also the discussion of the court action on the CAIR below. Even while the rule has been in flux, the Company has continued with its scrubber and selective catalytic reactor (SCR) construction projects with the expectation that new rules will be forthcoming.  

In 2005, the EPA issued the CAIR which requires the District of Columbia and 28 states, including South Carolina, to reduce nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions in order to attain mandated state levels. CAIR set emission limits to be met in two phases beginning in 2009 and 2015, respectively, for nitrogen oxide and beginning in 2010 and 2015, respectively, for sulfur dioxide. Numerous states, environmental organizations, industry groups and individual companies challenged the rule, seeking a change in the method CAIR used to allocate sulfur dioxide emission allowances. On December 23, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit remanded the rule but did not vacate it. Prior to the Court of Appeals’ decision, SCE&G and GENCO had determined that additional air quality controls would be needed to meet the CAIR requirements. SCE&G has completed the installation of SCR technology at Cope Station for nitrogen oxide reduction and GENCO has completed installation of a wet limestone scrubber at Williams Station for sulfur dioxide reduction. SCE&G also is installing a wet limestone scrubber at Wateree Station. The Company expects to incur capital expenditures totaling approximately $559 million  

41 

Table of Contents   

through 2010 for these scrubber projects, of which approximately $435 million has already been spent. The Company cannot predict when the EPA will issue a revised rule or what impact the rule will have on SCE&G and GENCO. Any costs incurred to comply with this rule or other rules issued by the EPA in the future are expected to be recoverable through rates. 

Physical effects associated with climate changes could include the impact of possible changes in weather patterns, such as storm frequency and intensity, and the resultant potential damage to the Company’s electric system, as well as impacts on customers and on the Company’s supply chain and many others. Much of the service territory of SCE&G is subject to the damaging effects of Atlantic and Gulf coast hurricanes and also to the damaging impact of winter ice storms. To help mitigate the financial risks arising from these potential occurrences, SCE&G maintains insurance on certain properties and also collects funds from customers for its storm damage reserve (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). As part of its ongoing operations, SCE&G maintains emergency response and storm preparation plans and teams, and applicable personnel participate in ongoing training and related simulations in advance of such storms, all in order to allow the Company to protect its assets and to return its systems to normal reliable operation in a timely fashion following any such event. 

 In December 2009 the EPA issued a final finding that atmospheric concentrations of GHG endanger public health and welfare within the meaning of Section 202(a) of the CAA. The rule, which became effective in January 2010, enables the EPA to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA. The EPA has committed to issue new rules regulating such emissions by November 2011. On September 30, 2009, the EPA issued a proposed rule that would require facilities emitting over 25,000 tons of GHG a year (such as SCE&G’s generating facilities) to obtain permits demonstrating that they are using the best practices and technologies to minimize GHG emissions. The Company expects that any costs incurred to comply with GHG emission requirements will be recoverable through rates. 

In 2005 the EPA issued the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR) which established a mercury emissions cap and trade program for coal-fired power plants. Numerous parties challenged the rule, and on February 8, 2008, the United States Circuit Court for the District of Columbia vacated the rule for electric utility steam generating units. The Company expects the EPA to issue a new mercury emissions rule but cannot predict when such a rule will be issued or what requirements it will impose. 

The EPA is conducting an enforcement initiative against the utilities industry related to the new source review provisions and the new source performance standards of the CAA. As part of the initiative, many utilities have received requests for information under Section 114 of the CAA. In addition, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), on behalf of EPA, has taken civil enforcement action against several utilities. The primary basis for these actions is the assertion by EPA that maintenance activities undertaken by the utilities at their coal-fired power plants constituted “major modifications” which required the installation of costly BACT. Some of the utilities subject to the actions have reached settlement. 

 To date, SCE&G and GENCO have received and responded to Section 114 requests for information related to Canadys, Wateree and Williams Stations. The current state of continued DOJ civil enforcement is the subject of industry-wide speculation, and it cannot be determined whether the Company will be affected by the initiative in the future. The Company believes that any enforcement action relative to its compliance with the CAA would be without merit. The Company further believes that installation of equipment responsive to CAIR previously discussed will mitigate many of the alleged concerns with New Source Review (NSR). 

Water Quality 

The Clean Water Act, as amended (CWA), provides for the imposition of effluent limitations that require treatment for wastewater discharges. Under the CWA, compliance with applicable limitations is achieved under a national permit program. Discharge permits have been issued for all, and renewed for all, of SCE&G’s and GENCO’s generating units. Concurrent with renewal of these permits, the permitting agency has implemented a more rigorous program of monitoring and controlling discharges, has modified the requirements for cooling water intake structures, and has required strategies for toxicity reduction in wastewater streams. The Company is conducting studies and is developing or implementing compliance plans for these initiatives. Congress is expected to consider further amendments to the CWA. Such legislation may include limitations to mixing zones and toxicity-based standards. These provisions, if passed, could have a material adverse impact on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company, SCE&G and GENCO. The Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates. 

 Hazardous and Solid Wastes 

The EPA has publicly stated its intention to propose new federal regulations affecting the management and disposal of coal combustion products (CCP), such as ash, in 2010. Such regulations could result in the treatment of some CCPs as hazardous waste and could impose significant costs to utilities, such as SCE&G and GENCO. While the Company cannot predict how extensive the regulations will be, the Company believes that any additional costs imposed by such regulations would be recoverable through rates.

42 

Table of Contents  

The Nuclear Waste Act required that the United States government accept and permanently dispose of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998. The Nuclear Waste Act also imposed on utilities the primary responsibility for storage of their spent nuclear fuel until the repository is available. SCE&G entered into a Standard Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste with the United States Department of Energy (DOE) in 1983. As of December 31, 2009, the federal government has not accepted any spent fuel from Summer Station or any other nuclear generating facility, and it remains unclear when the repository may become available. SCE&G has on-site spent nuclear fuel storage capability until at least 2018 and expects to be able to expand its storage capacity to accommodate the spent nuclear fuel output for the life of Summer Station through dry cask storage or other technology as it becomes available. 

The provisions of CERCLA authorize the EPA to require the clean up of hazardous waste sites. In addition, the states of South Carolina and North Carolina have similar laws. The Company maintains an environmental assessment program to identify and evaluate current and former operations sites that could require environmental clean-up. In addition, regulators from the EPA and other federal or state agencies periodically notify the Company that it may be required to perform or participate in the investigation and remediation of a hazardous waste site. As site assessments are initiated, estimates are made of the amount of expenditures, if any, deemed necessary to investigate and remediate each site. These estimates are refined as additional information becomes available; therefore, actual expenditures may differ significantly from the original estimates. Amounts estimated and accrued to date for site assessments and clean-up relate solely to regulated operations. Such amounts are recorded in deferred debits and amortized, with recovery provided through rates. The Company has assessed the following matters: 

Electric Operations 

SCE&G has been named, along with 53 others, by the EPA as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at the Alternate Energy Resources, Inc. (AER) Superfund site located in Augusta, Georgia. The EPA placed the site on the National Priorities List in April 2006. AER conducted hazardous waste storage and treatment operations from 1975 to 2000, when the site was abandoned. While operational, AER processed fuels from waste oils, treated industrial coolants and oil/water emulsions, recycled solvents and blended hazardous waste fuels. During that time, SCE&G occasionally used AER for the processing of waste solvents, oily rags and oily wastewater. The EPA and the State of Georgia have documented that a release or releases have occurred at the site leading to contamination of groundwater, surface water and soils. The EPA and the State of Georgia have conducted a preliminary assessment and site inspection. The PRPs funded a Remedial Investigation and Risk Assessment which was completed and approved by the EPA, and funded a Feasibility Study that is expected to be completed in 2010. The site has not been remediated nor has a clean-up cost been estimated. Although a basis for the allocation of clean-up costs among the PRPs is unclear, SCE&G does not believe that its involvement at this site would result in an allocation of costs that would have a material adverse impact on its results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Any cost allocated to SCE&G arising from the remediation of this site, net of insurance recovery, is expected to be recoverable through rates. 

Gas Distribution 

SCE&G is responsible for four decommissioned manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites in South Carolina which contain residues of by-product chemicals. These sites are in various stages of investigation, remediation and monitoring under work plans approved by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC). SCE&G anticipates that major remediation activities at these sites will continue until 2012 and will cost an additional $7.7 million. In addition, the National Park Service of the Department of the Interior has made an initial demand to SCE&G for payment of $9.1 million for certain costs and damages relating to the MGP site in Charleston, South Carolina. SCE&G expects to recover any cost arising from the remediation of these four sites, net of insurance recovery, through rates. At December 31, 2009, deferred amounts, net of amounts previously recovered through rates and insurance settlements, totaled $19.4 million. 

PSNC Energy is responsible for environmental clean up at five sites in North Carolina on which MGP residuals are present or suspected. PSNC Energy’s actual remediation costs for these sites will depend on a number of factors, such as actual site conditions, third-party claims and recoveries from other PRPs. PSNC Energy has recorded a liability and associated regulatory asset of $4.4 million, the estimated remaining liability at December 31, 2009. PSNC Energy expects to recover through rates any costs allocable to PSNC Energy arising from the remediation of these sites. 

REGULATORY MATTERS 

 Material retail rate proceedings are described in more detail in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 

South Carolina Electric & Gas Company 

SCE&G is subject to the jurisdiction of the SEC as to the issuance of certain securities and other matters; the SCPSC as to retail electric and gas rates, service, accounting, issuance of securities (other than short-term borrowings) and other matters; and FERC as to issuance of short-term borrowings, certain acquisitions and other matters. 

43 

Table of Contents   

SCE&G and GENCO are subject to regulation under the Federal Power Act, administered by FERC and DOE, in the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and in the sale of electric energy at wholesale for resale, as well as with respect to licensed hydroelectric projects and certain other matters, including accounting. 

Natural gas distribution companies may request annual adjustments to rates to reflect changes in revenues and expenses and changes in investment. Such annual adjustments are subject to certain qualifying criteria and review by the SCPSC. 

Effective February 12, 2010 the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration issued a final rule establishing integrity management requirements for gas distribution pipeline systems, similar to those for transmission pipelines discussed below. The rule gives SCE&G until August 2, 2011 to develop and implement a program for compliance with the rule. SCE&G has not determined what impact the rule will have on its operations. SCE&G believes that any additional cost incurred to comply with the rule will be recoverable through rates. 

Public Service Company of North Carolina, Incorporated 

PSNC Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the NCUC as to gas rates, issuance of securities (other than notes with a maturity of two years or less or renewals of notes with a maturity of six years or less), accounting and other matters. 

The Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (the Pipeline Safety Act), directed the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) to establish the Integrity Management Rule for operations of natural gas systems with transmission pipelines located near moderate to high density populations. Of PSNC Energy’s approximately 593 miles of transmission pipeline subject to the Pipeline Safety Act, 63 miles are located within these areas. Through December 2009, PSNC Energy has assessed 95 percent of the pipeline and is required to complete its assessment of the remainder by December 2012. Depending on the assessment method used, PSNC Energy will be required to reinspect these same miles of pipeline approximately every seven years. PSNC Energy currently estimates the total cost through December 2012 to be $8.0 million for the initial assessments, not including any subsequent remediation that may be required. Costs totaling $2.3 million are being recovered through rates over a three-year period beginning November 1, 2008. The NCUC has authorized continuation of deferral accounting for certain expenses incurred to comply with DOT’s pipeline integrity management requirements until resolution of PSNC Energy’s next general rate proceeding. 

Carolina Gas Transmission Corporation 

CGT has approximately 73 miles of transmission line that are covered by the Integrity Management Rule of the Pipeline Safety Act. CGT currently estimates the total cost to be $8.3 million for the initial assessments and any subsequent remediation required through December 2012. 

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 

Following are descriptions of the Company’s accounting policies and estimates which are most critical in terms of reporting financial condition or results of operations. 

Utility Regulation 

SCANA’s regulated utilities record certain assets and liabilities that defer the recognition of expenses and revenues to future periods in accordance with accounting guidance for rate-regulated utilities. In the future, as a result of deregulation or other changes in the regulatory environment, the Company may no longer meet the criteria of accounting for rate-regulated utilities, and could be required to write off its regulatory assets and liabilities. Such an event could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, liquidity or financial position of the Company’s and SCE&G’s Electric Distribution and Gas Distribution segments in the period the write-off would be recorded. See Note 1B to the consolidated financial statements for a description of the Company’s regulatory assets and liabilities, including those associated with the Company’s environmental assessment program. 

 The Company’s generation assets would be exposed to considerable financial risks in a deregulated electric market. If market prices for electric generation do not produce adequate revenue streams and the enabling legislation or regulatory actions do not provide for recovery of the resulting stranded costs, the Company could be required to write down its investment in those assets. The Company cannot predict whether any write-downs will be necessary and, if they are, the extent to which they would adversely affect the Company’s results of operations in the period in which they would be recorded. As of December 31, 2009, the Company’s net investments in fossil/hydro and nuclear generation assets were approximately $2.8 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively. 

Revenue Recognition and Unbilled Revenues 

Revenues related to the sale of energy are recorded when service is rendered or when energy is delivered to customers. Because customers of the Company’s utilities and retail gas operations are billed on cycles which vary based on the timing of the actual reading of their electric and gas meters, the Company records estimates for unbilled revenues at the end of each reporting period. Such unbilled revenue amounts reflect estimates of the amount of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last 

44 

Table of Contents   

reading of their meters. Such unbilled revenues reflect consideration of estimated usage by customer class, the effects of different rate schedules, changes in weather and, where applicable, the impact of weather normalization or other regulatory provisions of rate structures. The accrual of unbilled revenues in this manner properly matches revenues and related costs. Accounts receivable included unbilled revenues of $187.2 million at December 31, 2009 and $185.1 million at December 31, 2008, compared to total revenues of $4.2 billion and $5.3 billion for the years 2009 and 2008, respectively. 

Nuclear Decommissioning 

Accounting for decommissioning costs for nuclear power plants involves significant estimates related to costs to be incurred many years in the future. Among the factors that could change SCE&G’s accounting estimates related to decommissioning costs are changes in technology, changes in regulatory and environmental remediation requirements, and changes in financial assumptions such as discount rates and timing of cash flows. Changes in any of these estimates could significantly impact the Company’s financial position and cash flows (although changes in such estimates should be earnings-neutral, because these costs are expected to be collected from ratepayers). 

SCE&G’s two-thirds share of estimated site-specific nuclear decommissioning costs for Summer Station, including both the cost of decommissioning plant components that are and are not subject to radioactive contamination, totals $451.0 million, stated in 2006 dollars. Santee Cooper is responsible for decommissioning costs related to its one-third ownership interest in Summer Station. The cost estimate assumes that the site would be maintained over a period of 60 years in such a manner as to allow for subsequent decontamination that would permit release for unrestricted use. 

Under SCE&G’s method of funding decommissioning costs, amounts collected through rates are invested in insurance policies on the lives of certain Company personnel. SCE&G transfers to an external trust fund the amounts collected through electric rates, insurance proceeds and interest thereon, less expenses. The trusteed asset balance reflects the net cash surrender value of the insurance policies and cash held by the trust. Management intends for the fund, including earnings thereon, to provide for all eventual decommissioning expenditures on an after-tax basis. 

Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits 

The Company recognizes the overfunded or underfunded status of its defined benefit pension plan as an asset or liability in its balance sheet and changes in funded status as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, or as a regulatory asset as required by accounting guidance. The Company’s plan is adequately funded under current regulations. Accounting guidance requires the use of several assumptions, the selection of which may have a large impact on the resulting pension cost or income recorded. Among the more sensitive assumptions are those surrounding discount rates and expected returns on assets. Net pension cost of $40.0 million recorded in 2009 reflects the use of a 6.45% discount rate, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and an assumed 8.50% long-term rate of return on plan assets. The Company believes that these assumptions were, and that the resulting pension cost amount was, reasonable. For purposes of comparison, using a discount rate of 6.20% in 2009 would have increased the Company’s pension cost by $1.1 million. Had the assumed long-term rate of return on assets been 8.25%, the Company’s pension cost for 2009 would have increased by $1.5 million. 

The following information with respect to pension assets (and returns thereon) should also be noted. 

The Company determines the fair value of a majority of its pension assets utilizing market quotes or derives them from modeling techniques that incorporate market data. Only a small portion of assets are valued using less transparent (so-called “Level 3”) methods. 

In developing the expected long-term rate of return assumptions, the Company evaluates historical performance, targeted allocation amounts and expected payment terms. As of the beginning of 2009, the plan’s historical 10, 15, 20 and 25 year cumulative performance showed actual returns of 4.0%, 9.0%, 9.2% and 10.6%, respectively. The 2009 expected long-term rate of return of 8.5% was based on a target asset allocation of 65% with equity managers and 35% with fixed income managers. Management regularly reviews such allocations and periodically rebalances the portfolio when considered appropriate. For 2010, the expected rate of return is also 8.5%. 

As noted in Results of Operations above, due to turmoil in the financial markets and the resultant declines in plan asset values in the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company recorded significant amounts of pension cost in 2009 compared to the pension income recorded in 2008 and previously. However, in February 2009, the Company was granted accounting orders by the SCPSC which allow it to mitigate a significant portion of this increased pension expense by deferring as a regulatory asset the amount of pension expense above the level of pension income which is included in current rates for both of the Company’s South Carolina regulated businesses. These costs will be deferred until future rate filings, at which time the accumulated deferred costs will be addressed prospectively. 

45 

Table of Contents  

The pension trust is adequately funded under current regulations, and no contributions have been required since 1997. Management does not anticipate the need to make pension contributions until after 2011. 

The Company accounts for the cost of its postretirement medical and life insurance benefit plans in a similar manner to that used for its defined benefit pension plan. This plan is unfunded, so no assumptions related to rate of return on assets impact the net expense recorded; however, the selection of discount rates can significantly impact the actuarial determination of net expense. The Company used a discount rate of 6.45%, derived using a cash flow matching technique, and recorded a net cost of $17.7 million for 2009. Had the selected discount rate been 6.20%, the expense for 2009 would have been $0.1 million higher. Because the plan provisions include “caps” on company per capita costs, healthcare cost inflation rate assumptions do not materially impact the net expense recorded. 

Asset Retirement Obligations 

The Company accrues for the legal obligation associated with the retirement of long-lived tangible assets that result from their acquisition, construction, development and normal operation in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The obligations are recognized at fair value in the period in which they are incurred, and associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as a part of the carrying amount of the related long-lived assets. Because such obligations relate primarily to the Company’s regulated utility operations, their recording has no significant impact on results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has recorded an asset retirement obligation (ARO) of $111 million for nuclear plant decommissioning (as discussed above) and an ARO of $366 million for other conditional obligations related to generation, transmission and distribution properties, including gas pipelines. All of the amounts recorded in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance are based upon estimates which are subject to varying degrees of imprecision, particularly since such payments will be made many years in the future. Changes in these estimates will be recorded over time; however, these changes in estimates are not expected to materially impact results of operations so long as the regulatory framework for the Company’s utilities remains in place. 

OTHER MATTERS 

Off-Balance Sheet Transactions 

Although SCANA invests in securities and business ventures, it does not hold significant investments in unconsolidated special purpose entities. SCANA does not engage in off-balance sheet financing or similar transactions, although it is party to incidental operating leases in the normal course of business, generally for office space, furniture, equipment and rail cars. 

Claims and Litigation 

For a description of claims and litigation see Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS and Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. 

46 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK