PART I  

  Item 1.    Business    

 General  

 We are the world’s largest enterprise software company. We develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software as well as applications software designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations.  

 Our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and integrated software solutions that improve transactional efficiencies, adapt to an organization’s unique needs and allow better ways to access and manage information at a lower total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets.  

 We believe our internal or organic growth and continued innovation with respect to our core database, middleware and applications technologies provide the foundation for our long-term strategic plan. In fiscal 2008, we invested $2.7 billion on research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products, features and services.  

 An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. Over the last four fiscal years, we have invested billions of dollars, including $9.4 billion in fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies such as BEA Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2008, Hyperion Solutions Corporation in fiscal 2007, Siebel Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2006 and PeopleSoft, Inc. in fiscal 2005. We believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies.  

 Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in June 1977.  

 Software and Services  

 We are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. Our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. Our services business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) On Demand and (3) education. Our software and services businesses represented 80% and 20% of our total revenues, respectively, in both fiscal 2008 and 2006, and 79% and 21% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2007. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our operating segments.  

 1   
 Software Business  

 New Software Licenses  

 New software licenses include the licensing of database and middleware software, which consists of Oracle Databases and Oracle Fusion Middleware, as well as applications software. Our technology and business solutions are based on an internet model comprised of interconnected databases, application servers, as well as mobile devices. This architecture enables users to access business data and applications through a web browser interface, while providing customers the most efficient and cost effective method of managing business information and applications.  

 In an internet model, database servers manage and protect the underlying business information, while application servers run the business applications that automate a myriad of business functions. We have focused on concepts such as global single instance application deployment that involve fewer, high quality databases of important business information. Our architecture provides high quality business information and can be adapted to the specific needs of any industry or application. Oracle technology operates on both single server and clustered server configurations, which we refer to as “grid” software, and supports a choice of operating systems including Linux, Windows and UNIX.  

 New software license revenues include fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our software products and exclude revenues derived from software license updates and product support. The standard end user software license agreement for our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users or other metrics. We also have other types of software license agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license term. New software license revenues represented 34%, 33% and 34% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

 Database and Middleware Software  

 Our database and middleware software provides a cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and managing business applications for mid-size businesses and large global enterprises. With an increasing focus by enterprises on reducing their total cost of information technology (IT) infrastructure, our software is designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business environments, using clusters of low cost servers and storage that can incrementally scale as required. The ability to assign computing resources as required simplifies our customers’ computing capacity, planning and procurement in order to support all of their business applications. With an Oracle grid infrastructure, our customers can lower their investment in IT hardware, reduce their risk of IT infrastructure downtime and more easily cope with sudden increases in demand on their IT environments during high traffic periods. New software license revenues from database and middleware products represented 68%, 71% and 73% of our new software license revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

 Databases  

 As the world’s most popular database, Oracle Database enables the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of data, including business application and analytics data, and unstructured data in the form of XML files, office documents, images, video and spatial data. Designed for enterprise grid computing, the Oracle Database is available in four editions: Express Edition, Standard Edition One, Standard Edition and Enterprise Edition. All editions are built using the same underlying code, which means that our database software can easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of multi-processor servers.  

 Options to Oracle Database Enterprise Edition are available to meet specific requirements in the areas of performance and scalability, high availability, data security and compliance, data warehousing, unstructured data integration and systems management. Examples of these options include:  

    •   Oracle Real Application Clusters, which consolidates a single, scalable and fault tolerant database that is shared across interconnected clusters of servers;   

    •   Oracle Partitioning, which breaks down large transaction processing and business intelligence database tables into smaller segments for faster query performance and easier management of data throughout its lifecycle;    

 2   
    •   Oracle Warehouse Builder Enterprise and Data Quality Options, which help customers design, build and populate data warehouses with reliable, quality information from a variety of legacy repositories; and   

    •   Oracle In-Memory Database Cache, a new option that improves application performance by caching or storing performance critical parts of Oracle Database in the main memory of the application tier.    

 In addition to the four editions of Oracle Database, Oracle also offers a selection of specialized databases:  

    •   Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database, which is a memory-optimized relational database that delivers low latency and high throughput for applications requiring real-time performance;   

    •   Oracle Berkeley DB, which is a family of open source, embeddable, non-relational databases that allows developers to incorporate a fast, scalable and reliable database engine within their applications; and   

    •   Oracle Database Lite, which is a comprehensive solution for developing, deploying and managing applications for mobile and embedded environments. It consists of a small footprint relational database that runs on many devices and platforms, a mobile server that synchronizes data between the mobile devices and Oracle Database, and mobile application development tools.    

 We also offer products that are complementary to our database product offerings, including Oracle Enterprise Manager and Oracle Audit Vault.  

 Enterprise Manager   

 Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to deliver top-down applications and software infrastructure management. Our customers use Oracle Enterprise Manager to monitor and manage their applications and underlying software infrastructure, including both Oracle and non-Oracle infrastructure products. Oracle Enterprise Manager can be used to manage packaged applications, such as Siebel, PeopleSoft, Oracle E-Business Suite or custom applications including Service-Oriented Architecture applications. In addition to managing Oracle software infrastructure products including the Oracle Database and Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Enterprise Manager also supports our recently acquired BEA Web Logic Server middleware product and other third-party infrastructure products.  

 Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to monitor service levels and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration information, and provide change management in a unified way across groups of computers or grids. Oracle Enterprise Manager’s provisioning automates the discovery, tracking and scheduling of software patches and allows IT administrators to apply patches without taking their system down. Additionally, IT administrators can manage systems from anywhere through an HTML browser or through wireless PDAs.  

 Audit Vault   

 Oracle Audit Vault reduces the cost and complexity of compliance reporting and of detection of unauthorized activities by automating the collection and consolidation of enterprise audit data. Oracle Database provides one of the most advanced auditing capabilities of any database management system. With Audit Vault, security and database administrators can manage audit policies across their enterprise and automatically collect audit data into a centralized, tamper resistant repository. This secure repository is built on Oracle’s scalable architecture to allow retention and aggregation of terabytes of audit data for analysis and reporting. Audit Vault analyzes audit data in real-time based upon enterprise defined policies, issues alerts for unauthorized activities, and provides built-in reports for demonstrating the IT controls required to comply with internal control assessments, including provisions of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other data privacy and protection regulations.  

 Middleware  

 Oracle Fusion Middleware is a broad product family that forms a reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build, deploy and integrate business applications and automate their business processes. Oracle Fusion Middleware includes:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 3   
  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Oracle Fusion Middleware is designed to protect customers’ IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle database, middleware and applications products through its “hot-pluggable” architecture (which enables customers to easily install and use Oracle Fusion Middleware products within their existing IT environments) and adherence to industry standards such as J2EE and Business Process Execution Language (BPEL).  

 By using Oracle Fusion Middleware, our customers increase their capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their risks related to security and compliance, increase user productivity and drive better business decisions. Specifically, Oracle Fusion Middleware enables customers to easily integrate heterogeneous business applications, automate business processes, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence, while continuing to utilize their existing IT systems. In addition, Oracle Fusion Middleware supports multiple development languages and tools, which allows developers to build and deploy web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications. Oracle’s Fusion Middleware is used to support Oracle applications, as well as other enterprise applications and independent software vendors that build their own custom applications.  

 On April 29, 2008, we acquired BEA, a leading provider of enterprise application and service infrastructure software solutions. Our acquisition of BEA further strengthened our leading technology in certain product areas within Oracle Fusion Middleware such as Java application server (WebLogic Server), transaction processing (Tuxedo), portal and Enterprise 2.0 capabilities, Service-Oriented Architecture, IT governance and business process management. Our acquisition of BEA also increased the number of Java developers building applications for our middleware products. Additionally, BEA’s business is complementary to other product areas within Oracle Fusion Middleware such as identity management, business intelligence and enterprise content management.  

 Application Server   

 The foundation of Oracle Fusion Middleware is Oracle Application Server. Designed for grid computing, Oracle Application Server incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases application reliability, performance, security and scalability. Oracle Application Server also provides a complete integration platform that is designed to simplify and accelerate business, application and data integration projects. Our recent acquisition of BEA enables us to provide our customers with additional open-standards Java-based application infrastructure products such as WebLogic Server and scalable messaging and transaction processing platform products such as Tuxedo.  

 Business Intelligence   

 Oracle Business Intelligence (BI) provides visibility into how customers’ businesses are performing and helps them plan and model to improve that performance. BI is a portfolio of technology and applications that provides an integrated end-to-end system called Enterprise Performance Management (EPM) that unites our BI foundation and data warehousing products with our BI and EPM applications (described further below) to offer our customers an enterprise-wide business intelligence platform.  

 Our BI foundation products include Oracle BI Suite Enterprise Edition Plus, Oracle BI Standard Edition One, Hyperion Essbase and Oracle BI Publisher. Our BI foundation products deliver customers a comprehensive set of business intelligence tools, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc query and analysis, proactive detection and alerts, advanced reporting and publishing, real-time predictive intelligence, mobile analytics and desktop gadgets.  

 Our data warehousing products enable the extraction, transformation and loading of quality data in order for that data to be accurately searched and analyzed.  

 4   
 Identity and Access Management Suite   

 The Oracle Identity and Access Management suite makes it easier for our customers to manage multiple user identities, provision users in multiple enterprise applications and systems and manage access privileges for customers, employees and partners. Our customers use Oracle Identity and Access Management Suite to secure their information from potential threats. In addition, our customers also use Oracle Identity and Access Management Suite to increase compliance levels, while lowering the total cost of their compliance efforts.  

 Enterprise Content Management Suite   

 Unstructured information, which is data that is not easily readable or has not been stored so that it can be used efficiently, makes up a large portion of all the information residing in most businesses and public sector entities. Oracle Enterprise Content Management Suite provides a comprehensive set of capabilities to create, capture, publish, share and collaborate on, archive, retain, manage business process flows and manage information access rights to documents and other unstructured content file types. Oracle Enterprise Content Management Suite supports an extensive set of document and image formats. Our Web Content Management product’s capabilities also enable customers to use external facing websites as strategic marketing assets and rapid communications channels.  

 WebCenter   

 Oracle WebCenter enables personalized, task-oriented web applications and portal sites to be rapidly developed and deployed, all with single sign-on access and security. Our customers can assemble portal sites using page regions or portlets, which are reusable interface components that provide access to web-based resources such as applications, business intelligence reports, syndicated content feeds and outsourced software services. Oracle WebCenter also includes integrated Enterprise 2.0 capabilities, which enable customers to work together in teams via the internet and capitalize on “collective intelligence” within their enterprise and with their partners and customers.  

 JDeveloper   

 Oracle JDeveloper is an integrated software development environment designed to facilitate rapid development of Java applications, portlets, web services, process models and Rich Internet Applications (RIA) such as Flash and AJAX, among others. Oracle JDeveloper provides a comprehensive Java development environment for modeling, building, debugging and testing enterprise-class J2EE applications and web services. It is also integrated with the Oracle Application Development Framework, which provides a framework for building applications, including a set of components that enable developers to build RIA based on Java user interface standards and deploy the applications to take advantage of modern RIA technologies.  

 Service-Oriented Architecture Suite   

 Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is an information technology strategy which allows users to interface with Internet-based portals and composite applications, which in turn interface with several enterprise applications. Oracle SOA Suite is a complete set of service infrastructure components for creating, deploying, and managing SOAs, including Oracle JDeveloper, Oracle BPEL Process Manager, Oracle Web Services Manager, Oracle Business Rules, Oracle Business Activity Monitoring, and Oracle Enterprise Service Bus. Oracle SOA Suite enables services to be created, managed and orchestrated into composite applications and reconfigurable business processes, reducing development time and costs and increasing flexibility and response time. Oracle SOA Suite is “hot-pluggable”, enabling customers to easily extend and evolve their architectures instead of replacing existing investments.  

 Data Integration Suite   

 Through Oracle Data Integration Suite, we offer best-of-breed and unified data integration technologies that enable customers to build, deploy and manage enterprise business data. Our Data Integration foundation allows enterprise data architects to unify, manage, replicate, migrate and distribute data into enterprise applications and orchestrated business processes. With our open and “hot-pluggable” data integration components, organizations can continue to  

 5   
 use and evolve their IT infrastructure instead of replacing it. The Data Integration Suite can extract data from one system and load it into another (such as a data warehouse) and then rapidly transform the data into a new format. It also includes technology to address data quality and data profiling.  

 Applications Software  

 Our applications software strategy is designed to provide customers with complete, integrated and open solutions for industry business process automation, supported by a robust, standards-based technology platform. Central to that strategy is our commitment to offer customers that purchase software license updates and product support contracts a choice as to when they wish to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own. Until our customers reach a decision to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own, we protect their investments in their applications by offering them the ability to purchase software license updates and product support contracts for their existing products. New technologies such as Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Business Intelligence Suite, and Oracle WebCenter are designed to help customers extend the benefits of their IT investments in our applications, to reduce their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the next generation of enterprise software that best fits their needs.  

 Our applications software products combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and workflow to deliver adaptive industry processes, business intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity. Our applications software products enable efficient management of all core business functions, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our applications software products are offered as integrated suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration and open, multi-vendor integration. Our applications are available in multiple languages, and support a broad range of location specific requirements, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements.  

 Oracle Application Integration Architecture provides an open, standards-based framework for creating adaptable, cross-application business processes. For customers looking to quickly deploy integrations between Oracle applications, Oracle Application Integration Architecture also offers packaged integrations, allowing for rapid implementation of mission-critical business applications.  

 Customer Relationship Management (CRM)   

 We offer a complete set of CRM applications that manage all of the business processes and associated systems that touch a customer, including:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Enterprise Performance Management (EPM)   

 We offer a full spectrum of EPM applications that are open, industry-specific analytic applications with capabilities such as interactive dashboarding and embedded analytic functionality for delivering insight across the enterprise. Our business analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries, giving customers the ability to monitor, analyze and act upon business intelligence while providing end-to-end visibility into a customer’s operations and financial performance. With our acquisition of Hyperion in fiscal 2007, we added complementary products to our business  

 6   
 intelligence offerings, including a leading open enterprise planning system, financial consolidation products, and a multi-source OLAP server. Our acquisition of Hyperion combined with our BI analytics, BI foundation and data warehousing products enable us to offer our customers an integrated, end-to-end EPM system that spans planning, consolidation, operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools, reporting and data integration, all on a unified business intelligence platform.  

 Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)   

 Companies use our ERP applications to automate and integrate a variety of their key global business processes, including: manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable, general ledger, purchasing, warehousing, transportation and human resources. Our ERP applications combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as workflow and self-service applications in order to enable companies to lower the cost of their business operations by providing their customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet access to both transaction processing and critical business information. Our ERP applications are available in multiple languages and currencies, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements.  

 Product Lifecycle Management (PLM)   

 With our acquisition of Agile Software Corporation in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we added PLM software solutions. Our PLM solutions manage the product innovation and introduction process in a variety of industries, including high technology, life sciences, industrial manufacturing and consumer packaged goods. Our PLM solutions help customers make better product portfolio decisions, collaborate across design and supply chain partners, accelerate new product introduction and manage compliance.  

 Industry Applications   

 Our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of industry-specific solutions. As a part of our strategy, we strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in key industries. With our acquisition of Siebel, we gained expertise in the vertical markets in which Siebel offered industry solutions. We have also expanded our offerings in a number of other key industries we view as strategic to our future growth:  

    •   Retail, with our acquisitions of Retek, Inc., ProfitLogic, Inc. and several other companies;   

    •   Banking and financial services, with our acquisition of i-flex solutions limited;   

    •   Communications, with our acquisitions of Portal Software, Inc. and MetaSolv, Inc.; and   

    •   Utilities, with our acquisition of Lodestar Corporation and SPL WorldGroup, Inc.    

 These acquired industry applications are in addition to industry applications we developed for health sciences, insurance, manufacturing, education, professional services and the public sector.  

 We are currently building Oracle Fusion Applications, which are being designed to unify best-of-business capabilities from all Oracle applications in a complete suite. We believe this suite of applications will deliver a superior ownership experience through improved usability, adaptive business process automation, built-in business intelligence and industry-specific capabilities.  

 New software license revenues from applications software represented 32%, 29% and 27% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

 Software License Updates and Product Support  

 We seek to protect and enhance our customers’ current investments in Oracle technology and applications by offering lifetime support, product enhancements and upgrades. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers, as well as internet access to technical content. Software license updates and product  

 7   
 support are generally priced as a percentage of the new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. We also offer Oracle Unbreakable Linux Support, which provides enterprise level support for the Linux operating system and, in fiscal 2008, we introduced support for Oracle VM server virtualization software.  

 Our software license updates and product support revenues represented 46% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

 Services Business  

 Consulting  

 Oracle Consulting assists our customers in successfully deploying our applications and technology products. Our consulting services include business strategy and analysis; business process optimization; product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades; and ongoing managed services. These services help our customers achieve measurable business results, manage their total cost of ownership and reduce their deployment risk.  

 Oracle Consulting deploys professionals globally utilizing our blended delivery capabilities, including use of onsite consultants and personnel from our global delivery centers and applications solutions centers to leverage economies of scale for our customers. Consulting revenues represented 15%, 16% and 15% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

 On Demand  

 On Demand includes Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management, and maintenance services for customers that deploy over the internet our database, middleware and applications software delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers or at customer facilities. CRM On Demand is a service offering that provides our customers with our CRM software functionality delivered via a hosted, web-based solution that we manage. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution support centers, business critical assistance, technical account management, expert services, configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and annual on-site technical services. On Demand revenues represented 3% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

 Education  

 We provide training to customers, partners and employees as a part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our technology around the world. We currently offer thousands of courses covering all of our product offerings. Our training is provided primarily through public and private instructor-led classroom events, but is also made available through a variety of online courses and self paced media training on CD-ROMs. In addition, we also offer a certification program certifying database administrators, developers and implementers. Oracle University also offers user adoption services designed to provide comprehensive training services to help customers get the most out of their investment in Oracle. Our acquisition of BEA further enhanced our educational offerings in middleware. Education revenues represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

 Marketing and Sales  

 Sales Distribution Channels  

 We directly market and sell our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. In the United States our sales and service employees are based in our headquarters and in field offices throughout the United States. Outside the United States, our international subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary.  

 We also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the Oracle PartnerNetwork. The Oracle PartnerNetwork is a global program that  

 8   
 manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. By offering our partners’ access to our premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the Oracle PartnerNetwork program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally.  

 International Markets  

 We sell our products and provide services globally. Our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for our products. A summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Seasonality and Cyclicality  

 Our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and services, as our revenues are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. General economic conditions also have an impact on our business and financial results. The markets in which we sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively affected our revenues. See “Selected Quarterly Financial Data” in Item 7 of this Annual Report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues and expenses.  

 Customers  

 Our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.  

 Competition  

 The enterprise software industry is highly fragmented, intensely competitive and evolving rapidly. We compete in various segments of this industry including, but not limited to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, functionality, ease of use, open standards-compliance, product reliability, Service-Oriented Architecture, security and quality of technical support are key competitive factors in each of the areas in which we compete. Our customers are also demanding less complexity and lower cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software, which has led increasingly to our product offerings (database, middleware and applications) being viewed as a “stack” of software designed to work together.  

 9   
 Our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus our competitors’ products) are also affected by the broader “platform” competition between industry standard Java (J2EE) by Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun Microsystems) and Microsoft Corporation’s .NET programming environments and by operating system competition among Microsoft’s Windows Server, Unix (Sun Microsystem’s Solaris, Hewlett Packard Company’s (HP)-UX and International Business Machines Corporation’s (IBM)-AIX) and Linux. Open source alternatives to commercial software are also impacting the competitive environment. These products are typically offered free of charge and are readily available over the internet. Finally, software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings continue to alter the competitive landscape.  

 The following lists of competitors are necessarily incomplete due to the nature of the enterprise software industry. The competitive landscape is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand, are acquired and otherwise change.  

 In the sale of database software, scalability, reliability, availability and security are key competitive differentiators for us. Our competitors include IBM, Microsoft, Sybase, Inc., NCR Corporation’s Teradata division, SAS Institute, Inc., Informatica Corporation, and the open source databases such as MySQL (recently acquired by Sun Microsystems) and PostgreSQL, among others. Our ability to continually innovate and differentiate our database product offerings has enabled us to maintain our leading position in database software over our competitors.  

 In the sale of middleware products, our offerings include application server, business intelligence, application integration, business process management, Service-Oriented Architecture, collaboration and content management, portal, and identity management software. Our ability to offer a full range of rich functionality in a standards-based, open architecture has been a key competitive differentiator. Our competitors include IBM, Microsoft, SAP AG, Sun Microsystems, Progress Software, Fujitsu Software Corporation, Hitachi Software Engineering Co., Ltd., open source vendors such as Red Hat, Inc. (JBoss), Apache Geronimo, and Netezza Corporation, as well as several other competitors in each element of our packaged functions such as TIBCO Software, Inc., Software AG, Savvion, Inc., Microstrategy, Inc., CA, Inc., Informatica, Novell, Inc., Lombardi Software, Inc. and Pegasystems, Inc., among others. Our middleware solutions have experienced rapid growth in recent years relative to our competitors.  

 In the sale of collaboration and content management products, we compete with Microsoft, IBM (Domino/Notes/FileNet), EMC Corporation (Documentum), Open Text Corporation, Interwoven, Inc., HP (Tower Software) and Vignette Corporation, among others.  

 In the sale of development tools, ease of use, standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated code generation) are key competitive differentiators. We compete against IBM (WebSphere Studio), Microsoft (VisualStudio.NET), Sun Microsystems (Sun Studio), Sybase (PowerBuilder) and others, including Eclipse Foundation, Inc. (Eclipse), an open source vendor. The success of our development tools is closely related to the relative popularity of our platform (database and middleware) compared to our competitors as well as the larger competition between Java and Microsoft’s .NET.  

 The sale of applications software, in particular, is changing rapidly due to the development and deployment of Service-Oriented Architectures and web services, application integration middleware as well as software as a service offerings. As a result of our acquisitions of PeopleSoft and Siebel, we currently offer several product lines that are suited for different needs of customers in different industries. One of the main competitive differentiators in applications software is our ability to combine best-of-breed software, Suite software and our Application Integration Architecture, while shielding the end user from complexities. We compete against SAP AG, Lawson Software, Inc., Infor Global Solutions GmbH (SSA Global Technologies, Extensity), Microsoft Dynamics (Dynamics GP, Dynamics NAV, Dynamics CRM, Dynamics Snap, Dynamics SL), Sage, Inc., and IBM (Maximo, MOR Software, Ascential Software) as well as many other application providers and point solution providers.  

 We also provide applications specific to operations in particular industry verticals, such as retailing, financial services, communications, tax and utilities, health sciences, public sector and others. These applications are distinguished from enterprise resource planning (ERP) or customer relationship management (CRM) in that these industry-specific applications are focused on and limited to particular industry segments, as opposed to being designed for broad distribution across several industries. We typically compete with commercial software vendors’ pre-packaged applications, applications developed in-house by customers, applications which were custom developed by other software vendors and applications consisting of discrete pieces of functionality from multiple  

 10   
 providers which have been customized and implemented by systems integrators. In some of these industries, complete industry solutions either do not exist or are addressed by dozens of software participants.  

 With service-oriented architecture, our packaged applications also compete with custom solutions developed either in-house or by large systems integrators such as Accenture Ltd. or IBM Global Services.  

 Our applications also compete against business process outsourcers including Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Fidelity Investments, Ceridian Corporation, Hewitt-Cyborg Limited and others.  

 In the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and service offering for Red Hat’s open source Linux operating system in fiscal 2007. This placed us in competition with others who offer support for the Linux operating system, including Red Hat, Novell and Canonical Ltd. (Ubuntu); with IBM, Sun Microsystems, HP and others in the sale of Unix operating systems; and with Microsoft in the sale of Windows Server operating systems.  

 In the sale of virtualization products, we compete with VMware, Inc., IBM, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems and Citrix Systems, Inc., among others, including other vendors of open source virtualization products.  

 In the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we both partner with and compete against Accenture, Electronic Data Systems Corporation (to be acquired by HP), IBM Global Services, Bearing Point, Inc., CapGemini Group, and many others (both large and small).  

 In the sale of many of our products, we also compete with products and features developed internally by customers and their IT staff.  

 Research and Development  

 We develop the substantial majority of our products internally. In addition, we have acquired technology through business acquisitions. We also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. We have a number of United States and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. While we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments.  

 Research and development expenditures were $2.7 billion, $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion, or 12%, 12% and 13% of total revenues, in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As a percentage of new software license revenues, research and development expenditures were 36%, 37% and 38% in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software markets in which we compete. We plan on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product offerings including our database, middleware and applications software products.  

 Employees  

 As of May 31, 2008, we employed 84,233 full-time employees, including 19,465 in sales and marketing, 7,642 in software license updates and product support, 28,215 in services, 20,607 in research and development and 8,304 in general and administrative positions. Of these employees, 28,079 were located in the United States and 56,154 were employed internationally. None of our employees in the United States is represented by a labor union; however, in certain international subsidiaries workers’ councils represent our employees.  

 Available Information  

 Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this Annual Report.  

 11   
 Executive Officers of the Registrant  

 Our executive officers are listed below.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Mr. Ellison, 63, has been Chief Executive Officer and a Director since he founded Oracle in June 1977. He served as Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004.  

 Mr. Henley, 63, has served as the Chairman of the Board since January 2004 and as a director since June 1995. He served as an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from March 1991 to July 2004. He also serves as a director of Callwave, Inc.  

 Ms. Catz, 46, has been Chief Financial Officer since November 2005 and a President since January 2004. She has served as a Director since October 2001. She was Interim Chief Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. She served as an Executive Vice President from November 1999 to January 2004 and Senior Vice President from April 1999 to October 1999. She also serves as a director of HSBC Holdings plc.  

 Mr. Phillips, 49, has been a President and has served as a Director since January 2004. He served as Executive Vice President, Strategy, Partnerships, and Business Development, from May 2003 to January 2004. He also serves as a director of Morgan Stanley and Viacom, Inc.  

 Mr. Block, 47, has been Executive Vice President, North America Sales and Consulting since September 2002 and Executive Vice President, North America Consulting since February 2002. He served as Senior Vice President of North America Commercial Consulting and Global Service Lines from June 1999 until January 2002. He served as Senior Vice President of the Commercial Consulting Practice from April 1999 until May 1999. Mr. Block was Group Vice President, East Consulting from June 1997 until March 1999.  

 Mr. Giacoletto, 58, has been Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Sales and Consulting since June 2000 and served as Senior Vice President, Business Solutions from November 1998 to June 2000. He was Vice President, Alliances and Technology from March 1997 to November 1998. Before joining us, he had been President of AT&T Solutions for Europe since August 1994.  

 Mr. Rottler, 41, has been Executive Vice President, Oracle Customer Services since September 2006. He was Executive Vice President, Oracle Support and Oracle On Demand, from January 2005 to September 2006 and was Executive Vice President, Oracle On Demand, from September 2004 to January 2005. Prior to joining us, he served as Senior Vice President, Public Sector, Customer Solutions Group at Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), from December 2003 to September 2004, where he was responsible for HP’s worldwide Public Sector, Health and Education business. He also held various other global and regional executive positions in HP’s Services and Software business units since 1997.  

 Mr. Rozwat, 60, has been Executive Vice President, Product Development, since October 2007. He served as Executive Vice President, Server Technologies from November 1999 to October 2007 and served as Senior Vice President, Database Server from December 1996 to October 1999. He served as Vice President of Development from December 1994 to November 1996.  

 12   
 Mr. Williams, 63, has been Executive Vice President, Japan Sales and Consulting since June 2008 and was Executive Vice President, Asia Pacific Sales and Consulting from October 2000 to May 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific from July 1993 to October 2000 and as Vice President, Asia Pacific from April 1991 to July 1993. He joined Oracle United Kingdom in October 1988 and served as Regional Director, Strategic Accounts from October 1988 to April 1991.  

 Ms. Daley, 49, has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since October 2007. She served as Vice President, Legal, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from June 2004 to October 2007, as Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from October 2001 to June 2004, and as Associate General Counsel from February 2001 to October 2001. She joined Oracle’s Legal Department in 1992.  

 Mr. West, 46, has been Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2008 and was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from April 2007 to February 2008. Prior to joining us, he served as Intuit Inc.’s Director of Accounting from August 2005 to March 2007, as The Gap, Inc.’s Assistant Controller from April 2005 to August 2005, and as Vice President, Finance, at Cadence Design Systems, Inc.’s product business from June 2001 to April 2005. He also spent 14 years with Arthur Andersen LLP, most recently as a partner.  

  Item 1A.    Risk Factors