Item 7.    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    

 We begin Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key operating business segments and significant trends. This overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed analysis of our results of operations and financial condition.  

 We are the world’s largest enterprise software company. We are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. Each of these operating segments has unique characteristics and faces different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our five operating segments follows.  

 25   
 Software Business  

 Our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software license revenues and (2) software license updates and product support revenues. We expect that our software business revenues will continue to increase due to continued demand for our products and due to our acquisitions, which should allow us to improve margins and profits and continue to make investments in research and development.  

 New Software Licenses: We license our database and middleware as well as our applications software to businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. The growth in new software license revenues is affected by the strength of general economic and business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the competitive position of our software products and acquisitions. Our new software license business is also characterized by long sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of the timing of a few large software license transactions, we believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a trailing 4-quarter period (as provided in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q) provides additional visibility into the underlying performance of our new software license business. New software license revenues represented 34%, 33% and 34% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our new software license margins have been and will continue to be affected by the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies we have acquired.  

 Competition in the software business is intense. Our goal is to maintain a first or second position in each of our software product categories and certain industry segments as well as to grow our software revenues faster than our competitors. We believe that the features and functionality of our software products are as strong as they have ever been. We have focused on lowering the total cost of ownership of our software products by improving integration, decreasing installation times, lowering administration costs and improving the ease of use. In addition, our broad portfolio of product offerings (many of which have been acquired over the past four fiscal years) helps us to offer customers the ability to gain efficiencies by consolidating their IT “software stack” with a single vendor, which reduces the number of disparate software vendors with which customers interact. Reducing the total cost of ownership of our products provides our customers with a higher return on their IT investments, which we believe creates more demand for our products and services and provides us with a competitive advantage. We have also continued to focus on improving the overall quality of our software products and service levels. We believe this will lead to higher customer satisfaction and loyalty and help us achieve our goal of becoming our customers’ leading technology advisor.  

 Software License Updates and Product Support: Customers that purchase software license updates and product support are granted rights to unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period, as well as technical support assistance. In addition, we offer Oracle Unbreakable Linux Support, which provides enterprise level support for the Linux operating system and, in fiscal 2008, we introduced support for Oracle VM server virtualization software. Substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. The growth of software license updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by three factors: (1) the renewal rate of the support contract base, (2) the amount of new support contracts sold in connection with the sale of new software licenses, and (3) the support contract base assumed from companies we have acquired.  

 Software license updates and product support revenues, which represented 46% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, is our highest margin business unit. Support margins during fiscal 2008 were 85%, and accounted for 76% of our total margins over the same period. We believe that software license updates and product support revenues and margins will continue to grow for the following reasons:  

    •   Substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible for renewal.   

    •   Substantially all of our customers purchase license updates and product support contracts when they buy new software licenses, resulting in a further increase in our support contract base. Even if new software license revenue growth was flat, software license updates and product support revenues would continue to grow assuming renewal and cancellation rates remained relatively constant since substantially all new software license transactions add to our support contract base.    

 26   
    •   Our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed.    

 We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in business acquisitions to their estimated fair values at the acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of $179 million, $212 million and $391 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. To the extent underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority of which are one year.  

 Services Business  

 Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and education. Our services business, which represented 20%, 21% and 20% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, has significantly lower margins than our software business.  

 Consulting: Consulting revenues have increased primarily due to an increase in application implementations resulting from higher sales of new software applications over the past year and our recent acquisitions. We expect consulting revenues to continue to grow as consulting revenues tend to lag software revenues by several quarters since consulting services, if purchased, are typically performed after the purchase of new software licenses and our new software license growth rates have generally increased over the last several quarters in comparison to the corresponding prior year periods.  

 On Demand: On Demand includes Oracle On Demand, CRM on Demand, as well as Advanced Customer Services offerings. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide our customers flexibility in how they manage their IT environments and an additional opportunity to lower their total cost of ownership and can therefore provide us with a competitive advantage. We have made and plan to continue to make investments in our On Demand business to support current and future revenue growth, which has negatively impacted On Demand margins and may continue to do so in the future.  

 Education: The purpose of our education services is to further the adoption and usage of our software products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow our software revenues. Education revenues have been impacted by personnel reductions in our customers’ information technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions. However, education revenues and expenses have increased in recent periods in comparison to the corresponding periods of the prior year as a result of additional education offerings related to our acquired products.  

 Acquisitions  

 An active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. Over the last four fiscal years, we have invested billions of dollars, including $9.4 billion in fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies such as BEA Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2008, Hyperion Solutions Corporation in fiscal 2007, Siebel Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2006 and PeopleSoft, Inc. in fiscal 2005. We believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our recent acquisitions.  

 We believe we can fund additional acquisitions with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available under our existing debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings, operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.  

 27   
 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  

 Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there are material differences between these estimates, judgments or assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include the following:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require management’s judgment in its application. There are also areas in which management’s judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. Our senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  

 Revenue Recognition  

 We derive revenues from the following sources: (1) software, which includes new software license and software license updates and product support revenues, and (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and education revenues.  

 New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and applications software, and exclude revenues derived from software license updates, which are included in software license updates and product support. While the basis for software license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the provisions of Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, we exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.  

 For software license arrangements that do not require significant modification or customization of the underlying software, we recognize new software license revenue when: (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or determinable and free of contingencies or significant uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable. Substantially all of our new software license revenues are recognized in this manner.  

 The vast majority of our software license arrangements include software license updates and product support, which are recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers. Software license updates and product support are generally priced as a percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase both software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually.  

 28   
 Many of our software arrangements include consulting implementation services sold separately under consulting engagement contracts. Consulting revenues from these arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as service transactions as defined in SOP 97-2. The more significant factors considered in determining whether the revenue should be accounted for separately include the nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services are essential to the functionality of the licensed product), degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors, timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance criteria on the realizability of the software license fee. Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional performance on contracts with fixed or “not to exceed” fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenue is recognized when we receive final acceptance from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering the services. The complexity of the estimation process and factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the proportional performance method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A number of internal and external factors can affect our estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency variances and specification and testing requirement changes.  

 If an arrangement does not qualify for separate accounting of the software license and consulting transactions, then new software license revenues are generally recognized together with the consulting services based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Contract accounting is applied to any arrangements: (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance criteria that may affect collection of the software license fees; (2) where services include significant modification or customization of the software; (3) where significant consulting services are provided for in the software license contract without additional charge or are substantially discounted; or (4) where the software license payment is tied to the performance of consulting services.  

 On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for our database, middleware and applications software delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers or at customer facilities. CRM On Demand is a service offering that provides our customers with our Siebel CRM software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. Advanced Customer Services are earned by providing customers configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and annual on-site technical services. Revenue from On Demand services is recognized over the term of the service period, which is generally one year.  

 Education revenues include instructor-led, media-based and internet-based training in the use of our products. Education revenues are recognized as the classes or other education offerings are delivered.  

 For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate revenue to each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as determined by “vendor specific objective evidence.” Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for all elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing and discounting practices for those products and services when sold separately, and for software license updates and product support services is also measured by the renewal rate offered to the customer. We may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in our vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for these undelivered elements. As a result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements could differ significantly from our historical results.  

 We defer revenues for any undelivered elements, and recognize revenues when the product is delivered or over the period in which the service is performed, in accordance with our revenue recognition policy for each such element. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in bundled software and service arrangements, we defer revenues until all elements are delivered and services have been performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value of a delivered element has not been established, we use the residual method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered  

 29   
 elements is determinable. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered elements and is recognized as revenue.  

 Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions exist as part of public policy, for example in agreements with government entities when acceptance periods are required by law, or within previously executed terms and conditions that are referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in nature, we generally recognize revenues upon delivery provided the acceptance terms are perfunctory and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period.  

 We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities containing “fiscal funding” or “termination for convenience” provisions, when such provisions are required by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation. We consider multiple factors, including the history with the customer in similar transactions, the “essential use” of the software licenses and the planning, budgeting and approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we determine upon execution of these arrangements that the likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding provision by the governmental entity.  

 We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are net 30 days. However, payment terms may vary based on the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for revenue recognition.  

 While most of our arrangements include short-term payment terms, we have a standard practice of providing long-term financing to credit worthy customers through our financing division. Since fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have established a history of collection, without concessions, on these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software license revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have generally sold receivables financed through our financing division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing institutions. We account for the sale of these receivables as “true sales” as defined in FASB Statement No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.  

 Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations from these vendors at or about the same time that we have licensed our software to these same companies (Concurrent Transaction). Software license agreements that occur within a three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately from any software license transaction, at terms we consider to be at arm’s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We recognize new software license revenues from Concurrent Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our current operations.  

 Business Combinations  

 In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 141, Business Combinations, we allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed as well as to in-process research and development based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The purchase price allocation process requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at acquisition date with respect to intangible assets, support obligations assumed, estimated restructuring liabilities and pre-acquisition contingencies.  

 30   
 Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results.  

 In connection with the purchase price allocations for our acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the support obligations assumed. The estimated fair value of the support obligations is determined utilizing a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on the historical direct costs related to providing the support services and to correct any errors in the software products acquired. The sum of these costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligation. We do not include any costs associated with selling efforts or research and development or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. Profit associated with any selling efforts is excluded because the acquired entities would have concluded those selling efforts on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date. We also do not include the estimated research and development costs in our fair value determinations, as these costs are not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition.  

 As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $179 million, $212 million and $391 million that would have been otherwise recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year.  

 Had we included costs for our estimated selling and research and development activities and the associated margin for unspecified product upgrades and enhancements to be provided under our assumed support arrangements, the fair values of the support obligations would have been significantly higher than what we had recorded and we would have recorded a higher amount of software license updates and product support revenues both historically and in future periods related to these assumed support arrangements.  

 Other significant estimates associated with the accounting for business combinations include restructuring costs. Restructuring costs are typically comprised of severance costs, costs of consolidating duplicate facilities and contract termination costs. Restructuring expenses are based upon plans that have been committed to by management, but are generally subject to refinement during the purchase price allocation period (generally within one year of the acquisition date). To estimate restructuring expenses, management utilizes assumptions of the number of employees that would be involuntarily terminated and of future costs to operate and eventually vacate duplicate facilities. Estimated restructuring expenses may change as management executes the approved plan. Decreases to the cost estimates of executing the currently approved plans associated with pre-merger activities of the companies we acquire are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill indefinitely, whereas increases to the estimates are recorded as an adjustment to goodwill during the purchase price allocation period and as operating expenses thereafter.  

 For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies. If, during the purchase price allocation period, we are able to determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency, we will include that amount in the purchase price allocation. If, as of the end of the purchase price allocation period, we are unable to  

 31   
 determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency, we will evaluate whether to include an amount in the purchase price allocation based on whether it is probable a liability had been incurred and whether an amount can be reasonably estimated. With the exception of unresolved income tax matters, after the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment to amounts recorded for a pre-acquisition contingency will be included in our operating results in the period in which the adjustment is determined.  

 In fiscal 2010, we will adopt FASB Statement No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

 Goodwill and Intangible Assets—Impairment Assessments  

 We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. The provisions of Statement 142 require that a two-step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is considered not impaired and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit’s goodwill. If the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference.  

 Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each of our reporting units. Our most recent annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, did not result in an impairment charge.  

 We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an other than temporary impairment may exist. Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of amortization. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset.  

 Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we believe the historical assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. We did not recognize any intangible asset impairment charges in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.  

 Accounting for Income Taxes  

 Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying items of revenues and expenses that qualify for preferential tax treatment, and segregation of foreign and domestic earnings and expenses to avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters could be different from that which is reflected in our  

 32   
 historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which such determination is made.  

 Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are planned to be indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances of foreign earnings to the U.S. are planned based on projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of our foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we estimate the amount that will be distributed to the U.S. and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts. Material changes in our estimates could impact our effective tax rate.  

 We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We consider future growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such a determination. Likewise, if we later determine that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the applicable portion of the previously provided valuation allowance.  

 We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual results reflected in income tax returns filed during the subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed and the global tax implications are known, which can materially impact our effective tax rate.  

 The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We believe we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome related to these matters. However, our future results may include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or resolved, audits are closed or when statutes of limitation on potential assessments expire. Additionally, the jurisdictions in which our earnings or deductions are realized may differ from our current estimates. As a result, our effective tax rate may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis.  

 As part of our accounting for business combinations, some of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets. Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income tax rate in the quarter any impairment is recorded. Amortization expenses associated with acquired intangible assets are generally not tax deductible pursuant to our existing tax structure; however, deferred taxes have been recorded for non-deductible amortization expenses as a part of the purchase price allocation process. We have taken into account the allocation of these identified intangibles among different taxing jurisdictions, including those with nominal or zero percent tax rates, in establishing the related deferred tax liabilities. Income tax contingencies existing as of the acquisition dates of the acquired companies are evaluated quarterly and any adjustments are recorded as adjustments to goodwill.  

 On June 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48), which contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Although we believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax positions, no assurance can be given with respect to the final outcome of these matters. We adjust reserves for our uncertain tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which such a determination is made. Our provisions for income taxes include the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate and also include the related interest and penalties.  

 33   
 Legal and Other Contingencies  

 We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.  

 As a result of our acquisition of PeopleSoft in fiscal 2005, we inherited contingent liabilities resulting from a program PeopleSoft had implemented prior to the consummation of our acquisition of PeopleSoft (referred to as the “customer assurance program” or “CAP”). See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.  

 Stock-Based Compensation  

 We account for share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock awards and purchases under employee stock purchase plans in accordance with FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, which requires that share-based payments (to the extent they are compensatory) be recognized in our consolidated statements of operations based on their fair values. In addition, we have applied the provisions of the SEC’s Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 in our accounting for Statement 123(R).  

 We are required to estimate the stock awards that we ultimately expect to vest and to reduce stock-based compensation expense for the effects of estimated forfeitures of awards over the expense recognition period. Although we estimate forfeitures based on historical experience, actual forfeitures in the future may differ. In addition, to the extent our actual forfeitures are different than our estimates, we record a true-up for the difference in the period that the awards vest, and such true-ups could materially affect our operating results.  

 As required by Statement 123(R), we recognize stock-based compensation expense for share-based payments issued or assumed after June 1, 2006 that are expected to vest. For all share-based payments granted or assumed beginning June 1, 2006, we recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period of the award, which is generally four years. The fair value of the unvested portion of share-based payments granted prior to June 1, 2006 is recognized over the remaining service period using the accelerated expense attribution method, net of estimated forfeitures. In determining whether an award is expected to vest, we use an estimated, forward-looking forfeiture rate based upon our historical forfeiture rates. Stock-based compensation expense recorded using an estimated forfeiture rate is updated for actual forfeitures quarterly. We also consider, each quarter, whether there have been any significant changes in facts and circumstances that would affect our forfeiture rate.  

 We estimate the fair value of employee stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The fair value of an award is affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as other assumptions including the estimated volatility of our stock price over the term of the awards and the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options. The risk-free interest rate assumption we use is based upon United States treasury interest rates appropriate for the expected life of the awards. We use the implied volatility of our publicly traded, longest-term options in order to estimate future stock price trends as we believe that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. In order to determine the estimated period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options, we have used historical rates of employee groups by job classification. Our expected dividend rate is zero since we do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The aforementioned inputs entered into the option valuation model we use to fair value our stock awards are subjective estimates and changes to these estimates will cause the fair value of our stock awards and related stock-based compensation expense we record to vary.  

 We record deferred tax assets for stock-based awards that result in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of stock-based compensation recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which we will  

 34   
 receive a tax deduction. Because the deferred tax assets we record are based upon the stock-based compensation expenses in a particular jurisdiction, the aforementioned inputs that affect the fair value of our stock awards also indirectly affect our income tax expense. In addition, differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns are recorded in additional paid-in capital. If the tax deduction is less than the deferred tax asset, such shortfalls reduce our pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase our income tax expense. Our pool of excess tax benefits is computed in accordance with the alternative transition method as prescribed under FASB Staff Position FAS 123R-3, Transition Election to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards.  

 To the extent we change the terms of our employee stock-based compensation programs or refine different assumptions in future periods such as forfeiture rates that differ from our estimates, the stock-based compensation expense that we record in future periods and the tax benefits that we realize may differ significantly from what we have recorded in previous reporting periods.  

 Allowances for Doubtful Accounts  

 We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances for the portion of receivables when collection becomes doubtful. Provisions are made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable, the collection history associated with the geographic region that the receivable was recorded and current economic trends. If the historical data we use to calculate the allowances for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and our future results of operations could be materially affected.  

 Results of Operations  

 The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007 is primarily impacted by our acquisition of Hyperion in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, our acquisition of Agile Software, Inc. in our first quarter of fiscal 2008 and our acquisition of BEA in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.  

 The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006 is impacted by our acquisition of Siebel in our third quarter of fiscal 2006, the consolidation of i-flex solutions limited at the beginning of fiscal 2007 and, to a lesser extent, our acquisition of Hyperion in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2007.  

 In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007, and fiscal 2007 compared to fiscal 2006, we quantify the contribution of our acquired products to the growth in new software license revenues, the amount of revenues associated with software license updates and product support, as well as On Demand services (in the fiscal 2007 to fiscal 2006 comparison), and present supplemental disclosure related to certain charges and gains (including acquisition accounting and stock-based compensation), where applicable. Although certain revenue contributions from our acquisitions are quantifiable, we are unable to identify the following:  

    •   The contribution of the significant majority of consulting and education services revenues from acquired companies in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 (with the exception of the impact of BEA consulting and education revenues in fiscal 2008 in comparison to fiscal 2007, and i-flex and Hyperion consulting revenues and Hyperion education revenues for which we disclose the impact in fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006) as the significant majority of these services have been fully integrated into our existing operations.   

    •   The contribution of expenses associated with acquired products and services in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 (with the exception of the impact of certain BEA operating expenses in fiscal 2008 in comparison to fiscal 2007 and the impact of certain i-flex and Hyperion operating expenses for which we disclose the impact in fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006) as the significant majority of these services have been fully integrated into our existing operations.    

 35   
 We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may provide indications of general trends, the information has inherent limitations for the following reasons:  

    •   The quantifications cannot address the substantial effects attributable to our sales force integration efforts, in particular the effect of having a single sales force offer similar products. We believe that if our sales forces had not been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have been different.   

    •   Our acquisitions in the periods presented did not result in our entry into a new line of business or product category. Therefore, we provided multiple products with substantially similar features and functionality.   

    •   Although substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their software license updates and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal, amounts shown as support deferred revenue in our supplemental disclosure related to certain charges and gains (see below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent customers do not renew.    

 Constant Currency Presentation  

 We compare the percent change in the results from one period to another period in this annual report using constant currency disclosure. We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. To present this information, current and comparative prior period results for entities reporting in currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into U.S. Dollars at the exchange rate in effect on May 31, 2007, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year, rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on May 31, 2008 and May 31, 2007, our financial statements would reflect revenues of $1.57 million in fiscal 2008 (using 1.57 as the exchange rate) and $1.35 million in fiscal 2007 (using 1.35 as the exchange rate). The constant currency presentation would translate the fiscal 2008 results using the fiscal 2007 exchange rate and indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent change based on actual results as reported and based on constant currency.  

 Total Revenues and Operating Expenses  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Comprised of Europe, the Middle East and Africa    

 36   
 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Total revenues increased in fiscal 2008 due to increased demand for our products and services offerings and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. The growth in our total revenues was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008 due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major international currencies. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues contributed 38% to the growth in total revenues, software license updates and product support revenues contributed 45% and services revenues contributed 17%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 50% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 37% and Asia Pacific contributed 13%.  

 Total operating expenses were adversely affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in operating expenses is primarily due to higher salary and employee benefits associated with increased headcount levels (primarily resulting from our fiscal 2007 acquisitions, Agile in the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and, to a lesser extent, BEA in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008), as well as higher commissions and bonuses associated with increased revenues, earnings and headcount levels. In addition, operating expenses also increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher expenses from the amortization of intangible assets and additional stock-based compensation resulting from a higher fair value of grants issued in fiscal 2008 (caused primarily by our higher stock price) and the acceleration of vesting of certain acquired stock awards upon employee terminations pursuant to the original terms of those awards. Total operating expenses in fiscal 2007 were also reduced by a $52 million benefit as a result of a settlement of an acquired legal contingency from PeopleSoft for less than the amount accrued as of the end of the purchase price allocation period. The increases in operating expenses during fiscal 2008 were partially offset by a $57 million gain on property sale and a $127 million reduction of in-process research and development from our fiscal 2008 acquisitions in comparison to our fiscal 2007 acquisitions.  

 Total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues increased during fiscal 2008. The growth in our operating margin in fiscal 2008 was the result of our revenue growth, both organic and from acquisitions, and the relatively fixed nature of our cost structure in the short term. In addition, our operating margin growth was favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 9 percentage points.  

 International operations will continue to provide a significant portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar against certain major international currencies.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Total revenues increased in fiscal 2007 due to increased demand for our products and services offerings and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. Total revenues were positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 3 percentage points in fiscal 2007 due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major international currencies. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues contributed 27% to the growth in total revenues, software license updates and product support revenues contributed 47% and services revenues contributed 26%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 56% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA contributed 30% and Asia Pacific contributed 14%.  

 Operating expenses were adversely affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 3 percentage points. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in total operating expenses was primarily due to higher salary and employee benefits associated with increased headcount levels (primarily resulting from our acquisitions), as well as higher commissions and travel and entertainment expenses associated with both increased revenues and headcount levels. In addition, operating expenses also increased in fiscal 2007 due to higher amortization costs of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expenses related to our adoption of Statement 123(R) at the beginning of fiscal 2007. The aforementioned increases in operating expenses were partially offset by lower restructuring expenses and the settlement of a PeopleSoft contingency that provided a $52 million benefit to our operating expenses (see Acquisition Related and Other Expenses discussion below).  

 Operating margins as a percentage of total revenues were flat in fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006 and were favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 5 percentage points. Our revenues grew at a faster rate than our operating expenses, excluding the impact of amortization costs of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expenses. The increases in those cost categories offset the slower growth in our other operating expenses.  

 37   
 Supplemental Disclosure Related to Certain Charges and Gains  

 To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe the following information is helpful to an overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. You should review the introduction under “Results of Operations” (above) for a discussion of the inherent limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.  

 Our operating results include the following business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions as well as certain other significant expense and income items:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   In connection with purchase price allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the support obligations assumed. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities, in the amounts of $179 million, $212 million and $391 million in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, respectively. Approximately $205 million of estimated software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts assumed will not be recognized in fiscal 2009 that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired businesses as independent entities, due to the application of business combination accounting rules. To the extent customers renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues for the full contract value over the support renewal period.   

  (2)   Represents the amortization of intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions, primarily PeopleSoft, BEA, Siebel, Hyperion and i-flex. As of May 31, 2008, estimated future amortization expenses related to intangible assets are as follows (in millions):    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (3)   Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, integration related professional services, personnel related costs for transitional employees, certain business combination contingency adjustments after the purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other operating expenses (income), net. For fiscal 2008, acquisition related and other expenses include a gain on property sale of $57 million and, for fiscal 2007, acquisition related and other expenses include a benefit of $52 million related to the settlement of a pre-acquisition lawsuit against PeopleSoft (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information).   

  (4)   Restructuring expenses during fiscal 2008 relate to Oracle employee severance in connection with restructuring plans initiated in the second quarter, and amended in the fourth quarter, of fiscal 2008. Restructuring costs during fiscal 2007 relate to an Oracle-based restructuring plan initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 for which additional expenses were recorded during fiscal 2007.   

  (5)   Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating expense line items of our consolidated statements of operations (in millions):    

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

      Stock-based compensation included in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those options.   

      At the beginning of fiscal 2007, we adopted Statement 123(R) under the modified prospective method. Statement 123(R) requires us to record non-cash operating expenses associated with stock awards at their estimated fair values. Prior to our Statement 123(R) adoption, we were required to record stock-based compensation expenses at intrinsic values and substantially all of our stock-based compensation expense related to options assumed from acquisitions. In accordance with the modified prospective method, our financial statements for prior periods (i.e. fiscal 2006) have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the changes in methodology to expense options at fair values in accordance with Statement 123(R).   

  (6)   The income tax effects on the above presented charges and gains were calculated based on our effective tax rates of 29.5%, 28.6% and 29.7% in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.    

 38   
 Software  

 Software includes new software licenses and software license updates and product support.  

 New Software Licenses: New software license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our application software products. We continue to place significant emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales through our own sales force. We also continue to market our products through indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses are largely personnel-related and include commissions earned by our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible assets.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

  (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations    

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: New software license revenues growth was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues grew in all major product lines and across all geographies, with database and middleware revenues contributing 55% to the increase in new software license revenues and applications revenues contributing 45%. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 52%, EMEA contributed 39% and Asia Pacific contributed 9% to the increase in new software license revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and middleware revenues grew 17% in fiscal 2008 as a result of increased demand for our database and middleware products as well as incremental revenues from acquired  

 39   
 companies. Hyperion products contributed $103 million, BEA products contributed $93 million, Stellent products contributed $37 million, Tangosol products contributed $18 million and other recently acquired products contributed $2 million to the total database and middleware revenues growth in fiscal 2008.  

 On a constant currency basis, applications revenues increased 33% in fiscal 2008 due to continued strengthening of our competitive position in the applications software segment of the software industry as a result of our broad portfolio of product offerings to a diverse customer base and incremental revenues from acquired companies. Hyperion products contributed $199 million, Agile products contributed $58 million, Metasolv products contributed $14 million, and other recently acquired products contributed $42 million to the total applications revenue growth in fiscal 2008.  

 New software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million grew by 42% in fiscal 2008 and increased from 46% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2007 to 51% in fiscal 2008.  

 Sales and marketing expenses were adversely impacted by 5 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to higher salaries, benefits and travel expenses resulting from increased headcount, higher commissions expenses associated with both increased revenues and headcount levels, and an increase in planned marketing program expenses. Sales and marketing expenses include $45 million in expenses from BEA in fiscal 2008. These increases were partially offset by a $42 million reduction in litigation related expenses resulting primarily from the settlement of certain legal matters during the third quarter of fiscal 2008.  

 Total new software license margin as a percentage of revenues increased due to our new software licenses revenues growth rate and a favorable foreign currency impact, partially offset by higher growth rates in our amortization of intangible assets and stock-based compensation expenses.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues grew in all major product lines and across all geographies. Database and middleware revenues contributed 57% to the increase in new software license revenues, while applications revenues contributed 43%. The Americas contributed 50%, EMEA contributed 33% and Asia Pacific contributed 17% to the increase in new software license revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and middleware revenues grew 12% as a result of increased demand for our database and middleware products as well as incremental revenues from acquired companies. Siebel products contributed incremental revenues of $48 million, Stellent products contributed $26 million, Hyperion products contributed $16 million and other recently acquired products contributed $19 million to the total database and middleware revenues growth in fiscal 2007.  

 On a constant currency basis, applications revenues increased 29% as a result of the strengthening of our competitive position in the applications software segment of the software industry and incremental revenues from acquired companies. Siebel products contributed $130 million, i-flex products contributed $50 million, Hyperion products contributed $27 million, Portal products contributed $22 million, Demantra products contributed $21 million and other recently acquired products contributed $22 million to the total applications revenues growth.  

 New software license revenues earned from transactions over $0.5 million grew by 24% in fiscal 2007 and increased from 45% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2006 to 46% in fiscal 2007.  

 Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher personnel related expenses associated with increased headcount, as well as higher commissions expenses associated with both increased revenues and headcount levels. Total new software license margin as a percentage of revenues declined as our expenses, including amortization costs of intangible assets, grew at a faster rate than our revenues.  

 Software License Updates and Product Support: Software license updates grant customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product support includes internet access to technical content as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in our global support centers. Expenses associated with our software license updates and product support line of business include the cost of providing the support services, largely personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our  

 40   
 intangible assets associated with software support contracts and customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

  (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations    

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: The growth in our software license updates and product support revenues was favorably affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in fiscal 2008 as a result of the addition of software license updates and product support contracts associated with new software licenses sold during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and over the course of fiscal 2008, the renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in the current fiscal year and incremental revenues from the expansion of our customer base from acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 53%, EMEA contributed 36% and Asia Pacific contributed 11% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues.  

 Software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2008 include incremental revenues of $303 million from Hyperion, $38 million from BEA, $38 million from Agile, $30 million from Stellent, $25 million from Metasolv, and $46 million from other recently acquired companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed to their estimated fair value at the acquisition dates. Due to our application of business combination accounting rules, software license updates and product support revenues related to support contracts in the amounts of $179 million, $212 million and $391 million that would have been otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent entities, were not recognized in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are one year.  

 Software license updates and product support expenses were adversely impacted by 3 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support expenses increased due to higher salary and benefits associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer base, higher bonuses and commissions due to increased revenues, and higher amortization expenses resulting from additional intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007. Software license updates and product support expenses include $7 million of expense growth from BEA in fiscal 2008. Total software license updates and product support margin as a percentage of revenues  

 41   
 increased slightly as our revenues grew faster than expenses, but were partially offset by a higher growth rate in our amortization of intangible assets expenses.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support revenues increased in fiscal 2007 as a result of the addition of software license updates and product support contracts associated with new software licenses sold during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006 and over the course of fiscal 2007, the renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for renewal in fiscal 2007 and incremental revenues from the expansion of our customer base from acquisitions. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 59%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific contributed 12% to the increase in software license updates and product support revenues. Software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal 2007 include revenue growth of $310 million from Siebel, $37 million from i-flex, $19 million from Hyperion, and $55 million from other recently acquired companies.  

 Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product support expenses increased due to higher salary and benefits associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of our customer base, higher amortization expenses resulting from additional intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 and higher stock-based compensation expenses. Software license updates and product support expenses include $16 million in incremental expenses from both i-flex and Hyperion. Total software license updates and product support margin as a percentage of revenues remained constant as intangible asset amortization expenses and stock-based compensation expenses grew much faster than revenues and offset the lower growth in other operating expenses.  

 Services  

 Services consist of consulting, On Demand and education.  

 Consulting: Consulting revenues are earned by providing services to customers in the design, implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. The cost of providing consulting services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

  (2)   Included as a component of ’Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations    

 42   
 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Consulting revenue growth was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting revenues increased during fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in application product implementations associated with the sales of our application software products and incremental revenues from our recent acquisitions, primarily Hyperion and BEA. BEA added $16 million to our consulting revenue growth in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 36%, EMEA contributed 35% and Asia Pacific contributed 29% to the increase in consulting revenues.  

 Consulting expenses were adversely impacted by 6 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses increased during fiscal 2008 as a result of higher personnel related expenses attributable to higher headcount levels and third party contractor expenses that supported our increase in revenues. BEA added $16 million to our consulting expense growth in fiscal 2008. Total consulting margin as a percentage of revenues remained constant during fiscal 2008 as margin improvements in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions were offset by expense growth in the Americas region and for i-flex and an increase in our amortization of intangible asset expenses.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting revenues increased during fiscal 2007 primarily due to an increase in our application product implementations associated with the increase in sales of our application software products and incremental revenues from our acquisitions, including $359 million of incremental revenues from i-flex, whom we acquired at the beginning of fiscal 2007, and $16 million of incremental revenues from Hyperion. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific contributed 16% to the increase in consulting revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting expenses increased in fiscal 2007 as a result of higher personnel related expenses attributable to higher headcount levels and third-party contractor expenses. Consulting expenses included $281 million of incremental expenses from i-flex and $17 million from Hyperion. Total consulting margin as a percentage of revenues increased primarily due to higher margins contributed by i-flex.  

 On Demand: On Demand includes our Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced Customer Services offerings. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management, and maintenance services for our database and middleware as well as our applications software delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers, or at customer facilities. CRM On Demand is a service offering that provides our customers with our CRM software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. Advanced Customer Services consists of configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and on-site technical services. The cost of providing On Demand services consists primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs.  

 43   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: On Demand revenue growth was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2008 due to an increase in each service category’s subscription base as more customers engaged us to provide IT outsourcing solutions. On a constant currency basis, Oracle On Demand, Advanced Customer Services and CRM On Demand contributed 44%, 42% and 14%, respectively. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 53%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific contributed 18% to the increase in On Demand revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points, On Demand expenses increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher salaries and benefits expenses associated with increased headcount, and higher technology infrastructure related expenses to support the expansion of our customer base. These expense increases were partially offset by a shift of certain U.S. based costs to global support centers in lower cost countries. Total On Demand margin as a percentage of revenues improved primarily as a result of our Oracle On Demand business, which increased revenues while managing operating expenses to a level consistent with fiscal 2007 and the favorable impact of currency effects during the period. Our Advanced Customer Services and CRM On Demand margin percentages also improved modestly in comparison to fiscal 2007.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2007 due to higher Advanced Customer Services revenues, and the expansion of our subscription base in both Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand services. Advanced Customer Services revenues contributed 46% of the growth, while Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand contributed 33% and 21%, respectively. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 32% and Asia Pacific contributed 13% to the increase in On Demand revenues. Advanced Customer Services and CRM On Demand revenues included $50 million and $31 million, respectively, of incremental revenues from Siebel in fiscal 2007.  

 44   
 On Demand expenses were adversely impacted by 5 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2007. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On Demand expenses increased due to higher personnel related expenditures, higher amortization expenses resulting from intangible assets, as well as higher IT related costs to support the expansion of our customer base. On Demand expense growth also reflects a full year of expenses from Siebel On Demand employees (in comparison to only four months in fiscal 2006). Total On Demand margin as a percentage of revenues decreased, primarily driven by more rapid growth in personnel related expenses in comparison to revenues, and to a lesser extent, growth in IT related expenditures for Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand, as well as amortization of intangible assets. Advanced Customer Services operating margins remained flat compared with the prior year while operating losses in both Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand increased.  

 Education: Education revenues are earned by providing instructor led, media based and internet based training in the use of our database and middleware software products as well as applications software products. Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

   *    Not meaningful    

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Education revenue growth was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, education revenues increased in fiscal 2008 due primarily to an increase in customer training on the use of our applications products, including recently acquired products. BEA contributed $2 million to our revenue growth in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 39%, EMEA contributed 36% and Asia Pacific contributed 25% to the increase in education revenues.  

 Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations of 7 percentage points, education expenses increased due to higher personnel related expenses during the first half of fiscal 2008 and were partially offset by lower personnel related expenses in the second half of fiscal 2008 as a result of restructuring actions taken. Education expenses also increased due to third party contractor expenses and royalty fees associated with increased revenues and included $2 million of incremental expenses from BEA. Education margin as a percentage of revenues increased slightly in fiscal 2008 as revenue growth exceeded expense growth.  

 45   
 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, education revenues grew in fiscal 2007 primarily due to an increase in customer training on the use of our application products, as well as $5 million of incremental revenues from Hyperion. The Americas contributed 46%, EMEA contributed 26% and Asia Pacific contributed 28% to the increase in education revenues.  

 Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, education expenses increased in fiscal 2007 due to incremental headcount and associated personnel related expenditures, as well as higher third party contractor expenses and royalty fees associated with increased revenues. Education expenses also included $3 million of incremental expenses from Hyperion. Total education margin as a percentage of revenues decreased as expenses grew at a higher rate than revenues.  

 Research and Development Expenses: Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend to continue to invest significantly in our research and development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential to maintaining our competitive position.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

  (2)   Included as a component of ‘Amortization of Intangible Assets’ in our consolidated statements of operations    

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, research and development expenses increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher employee related expenses associated with higher headcount levels, including higher stock-based compensation expenses, and $46 million of increased expenses pertaining to certain legal-related matters. Our growth in research and development expenses included $15 million from BEA in fiscal 2008. The increase in our headcount was the combined result of our recent acquisitions and our hiring of additional resources to develop new functionality for our existing products. Research and development headcount as of the end of fiscal 2008 increased by approximately 2,550 employees in comparison to fiscal 2007, and included approximately 950 employees from BEA.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, research and development expenses increased due to higher salary and benefits expenses associated with higher headcount levels, increased stock-based compensation expenses due to our adoption of Statement 123(R) at the beginning of fiscal 2007, and increased external contractor expenses. Our growth in research and development expenses was impacted by our acquisitions, including $25 million from i-flex and $19 million from Hyperion. Research and development headcount increased by approximately 3,600 employees in comparison to fiscal 2006, and included approximately 1,200 employees from i-flex and 600 employees from Hyperion.  

 General and Administrative Expenses: General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for information technology, finance, legal and human resources support functions.  

 46   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Excluding stock-based compensation   

   *    Not meaningful    

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased during fiscal 2008 as a result of higher personnel related costs associated with increased headcount to support our expanding operations and increased stock-based compensation expenses. General and administrative expenses include $4 million of expenses from BEA in fiscal 2008.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased during fiscal 2007 as a result of higher personnel related costs associated with increased headcount to support our expanding operations, the recognition of stock-based compensation expenses due to the adoption of Statement 123(R) at the beginning of fiscal 2007 and increased professional services fees, primarily litigation related expenses. General and administrative expenses included incremental expenses of $25 million from i-flex and $10 million from Hyperion in fiscal 2007.  

 Amortization of Intangible Assets Expenses:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Amortization of intangible assets increased in fiscal 2008 due to the amortization of acquired intangibles from Agile, Hyperion, BEA and other acquisitions that we consummated since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets (including weighted average useful lives) and related amortization expenses.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Amortization of intangible assets increased in fiscal 2007 due to the amortization of purchased intangibles from Hyperion, Siebel (a full year of amortization in fiscal 2007 in comparison to four months in fiscal 2006), i-flex and other acquisitions that we consummated since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.  

 Acquisition Related and Other Expenses: Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, integration related professional services, stock-based compensation expenses, personnel related costs for transitional employees, certain business combination contingency adjustments after the purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other expenses (income), net. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses relate to unvested options assumed from acquisitions whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those options.  

 47   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  *    Not meaningful    

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Acquisition related and other expenses decreased during fiscal 2008 due to lower in-process research and development acquired as a part of our fiscal 2008 acquisitions in comparison to our fiscal 2007 acquisitions and a $57 million gain on a property sale in December 2007 (see Note 1 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). These decreases to acquisition related and other expenses were partially offset by higher transitional employee related expenses and increased stock-based compensation expenses due to the acceleration of certain acquired employee stock options pursuant to the terms of those options. Business combination contingency adjustments in fiscal 2007 included a $52 million benefit relating to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft on behalf of the U.S. government. This lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our acquisition of PeopleSoft, and represented a pre-acquisition contingency that we identified and assumed in connection with our acquisition of PeopleSoft. We settled this lawsuit in October 2006, which was subsequent to the purchase price allocation period, for approximately $98 million. Accordingly, we included the difference between the amount accrued as of the end of the purchase price allocation period and the settlement amount as a $52 million benefit to our consolidated statement of operations for fiscal 2007.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Acquisition related charges increased primarily due to in-process research and development charges resulting from our acquisitions of Hyperion, i-flex and others in fiscal 2007. This increase was almost entirely offset by a $52 million benefit as described above.  

 Restructuring expenses: Restructuring expenses consist of Oracle employee severance costs and Oracle duplicate facilities closures that were initiated to improve our cost structure as a result of acquisitions. For additional information regarding the Oracle restructuring plans, as well as restructuring activities of our acquired companies, please see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, our management with the appropriate level of authority approved, committed to, and initiated the Oracle Fiscal 2008 Restructuring Plan (2008 Plan) as a result of certain management and operational changes that are intended to improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations. Our 2008 Plan was amended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to include the expected effects resulting from our acquisition of BEA. The total estimated costs associated with the 2008 Plan are approximately $111 million and are primarily related to employee severance. The majority of these estimated costs are expected to be incurred over the course of fiscal 2009. Our estimated costs are preliminary and may be subject to change in future periods. We incurred restructuring expenses of $41 million in fiscal 2008, pursuant to the 2008 Plan (see Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2007 relate to Oracle employee severance and facility closures that were recorded in those periods and were a part of a restructuring plan initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.  

 48   
 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Restructuring expenses decreased in fiscal 2007 as we initiated the majority of the actions pursuant to the Fiscal 2006 Oracle Restructuring Plan during fiscal 2006. Our management did not initiate any new plans to restructure our Oracle-based operations during fiscal 2007.  

 Interest Expense:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher average borrowings resulting from the issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008, a net increase of $500 million in additional senior notes outstanding for the majority of fiscal 2008 and our issuances of short-term commercial paper in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 (we repaid these commercial paper amounts during fiscal 2008).  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Interest expense increased in fiscal 2007 due to higher average borrowings in fiscal 2007 related to our $5.75 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes issued in January 2006 (of which $1.5 billion was redeemed by us in May 2007), our $2.1 billion of commercial paper issuances (of which approximately $1.4 billion remained outstanding as of May 31, 2007) and our $2.0 billion of senior notes issued in May 2007.  

 Non-Operating Income, net: Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange gains, the minority owners’ share in the net profits of our majority-owned i-flex and Oracle Japan subsidiaries, and other income including net gains related to our marketable securities and other investments.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Non-operating income, net increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in interest income from higher weighted average cash and marketable securities balances during fiscal 2008.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Non-operating income, net increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher interest income attributable to an increase in average interest rates (the weighted average interest rate earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased from 3.04% in fiscal 2006 to 3.97% in fiscal 2007), partially offset by higher minority interests’ share in the net profits of i-flex and our Oracle Japan majority-owned subsidiaries.  

 Provision for Income Taxes: The effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations. Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and regulations, or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation.  

 49   
 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Provision for income taxes increased in fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 due to higher earnings before taxes. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.  

 Liquidity and Capital Resources  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Working capital: The increase in working capital in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to an increase in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances resulting from the issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in April 2008, additional cash and trade receivables generated from our operations and our adoption of FIN 48, which resulted in a significant reclassification of certain short-term tax liabilities to long-term (see Note 12 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). These increases in working capital were partially offset by cash used in fiscal 2008 to pay for our acquisitions (primarily BEA) and to repurchase our common stock. The decrease in working capital in fiscal 2007 was primarily a result of cash used to pay for our acquisitions and stock repurchases, partially offset by increases in operating cash flows from higher sales volumes, proceeds received from employee stock option exercises and an increase in our long-term borrowings.  

 Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities: Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other securities with original maturities of 90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations and U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise obligations. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities include $10.1 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as of May 31, 2008. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2008 in comparison to May 31, 2007 is due to the issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008 and an increase in our operating cash flows resulting primarily from an increase in net income, partially offset by cash used for our acquisitions (primarily BEA), net repayments of our short-term commercial paper notes, and repurchases of our common stock. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2007 in comparison to May 31, 2006 is a result of cash used to pay for acquisitions and stock repurchases during fiscal 2007, partially offset by an increase in our operating cash flows from higher net income, increases in our short-term and long-term borrowings and proceeds from stock option exercises.  

 Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter, was 63 days at May 31, 2008 compared with 62 days at May 31, 2007. The days sales outstanding calculation excludes the adjustment to reduce software license updates and product support revenues related to adjusting the carrying value for deferred support revenues acquired to fair value. Our increase in days sales outstanding is primarily due to differences in the timing of completion of certain sales transactions between years and a slight decline in timeliness of collections in certain countries.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Cash flows from operating activities: Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the purchase and renewal of their software license updates and product support agreements.  

 50   
 Payments from customers for software license updates and product support agreements are generally received near the beginning of the contract term, which is generally one year in length. We also generate significant cash from new software license sales and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures as well as payments related to taxes and leased facilities.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Net cash provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to higher net income, partially offset by increased accounts receivable due to fourth quarter fiscal 2008 revenue growth.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Cash flows provided by operating activities increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher net income, partially offset by increased accounts receivable due to fourth quarter fiscal 2007 revenue growth, cash payments to terminate leases associated with excess facilities assumed in the Siebel acquisition, and the settlement of a pre-acquisition lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft.  

 Cash flows from investing activities: The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in marketable securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and other assets to support our growth.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Net cash used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2008 due to an increase in cash used for acquisitions (primarily BEA), net of cash acquired and an increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of proceeds received from maturities).  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Net cash used for investing activities increased in fiscal 2007 due to an increase in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired. We paid cash to purchase a number of companies in fiscal 2007 including Hyperion, Stellent, MetaSolv, and Portal Software, and to purchase additional equity securities in i-flex. Cash outflows in fiscal 2006 primarily relate to our acquisition of Siebel and our equity investment purchases in i-flex.  

 Cash flows from financing activities: The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments under debt obligations as well as stock repurchases and proceeds from stock option exercise activity.  

 Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007: Net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2008 increased in comparison to cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2007 due to the issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in April 2008, additional proceeds from stock option exercises, excess tax benefits realized from stock-based compensation arrangements, and decreased spending on stock repurchases, and were partially offset by $1.4 billion of net repayments of short-term commercial paper notes.  

 Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal 2006: Net cash used for financing activities in fiscal 2007 primarily relates to an increase in stock repurchases and lower borrowings, net of repayments, when compared with fiscal 2006.  

 Free cash flow: To supplement our statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing 4-quarter basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate free cash flows as follows:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Represents capital expenditures as reported in cash flows from investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.    

 51   
 Long-Term Customer Financing  

 We offer our customers the option to acquire our software products and service offerings through separate long-term payment contracts. We generally sell contracts that we have financed on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions. We record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial institutions as sales of financial assets because we are considered to have surrendered control of these financial assets. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, $1.1 billion, $891 million and $618 million or approximately 15%, 15% and 13%, respectively, of our new software license revenues were financed through our financing division.  

 Contractual Obligations  

 The contractual obligations presented in the table below represent our estimates of future payments under fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and other factors may result in actual payments differing from these estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our information within the context of our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our contractual obligations as of May 31, 2008:  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  (1)   Our borrowings (excluding capital leases) consist of the following as of May 31, 2008:    

 [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED]  

     Our floating rate senior notes due May 2009 and May 2010 bore interest at a rate of 2.70% and 2.74%, respectively, as of May 31, 2008. In September 2007, we entered into two interest-rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the variable interest obligations associated with our floating rate senior notes due May 2009 and May 2010 so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.62% and 4.59%, respectively. Interest payments were calculated based on terms of the related agreements and include estimates based on the effective interest rates as of May 31, 2008 for variable rate borrowings after consideration of the aforementioned interest rate swap agreements.   

  (2)   Represents remaining payments under capital leases assumed from acquisitions.   

  (3)   Primarily represents leases of facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring and merger integration activities. We have approximately $355 million in facility obligations, net of estimated sublease income, in accrued restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2008.   

  (4)   Represents amounts associated with agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the payment.   

  (5)   Represents the maximum additional capital we may need to contribute toward our venture fund investments, which are payable upon demand.    

 52   
 Excluded from the table above are agreements that we entered into during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and the first quarter of fiscal 2009 in which we agreed to acquire a number of companies for estimated total cash consideration of $407 million. We expect these transactions to close during the first quarter of fiscal 2009.  

 As of May 31, 2008, we have $1.7 billion of unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. We have reached certain settlement agreements with relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately $90 million of these liabilities. Although it remains unclear as to when payments pursuant to these agreements will be made, some or all may be made in fiscal 2009. We cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which the remainder of these liabilities will be settled or released with the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be settled or released during fiscal 2009.  

 We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and contractual obligations. In addition, we believe we could fund our acquisitions, including the aforementioned acquisitions that we expect to close during the first quarter of fiscal 2009, and repurchase common stock with our internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from operations, our existing available debt capacity, additional borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.  

 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  

 We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors.  

 Recent Financing Activities  

 Senior Notes  

 In April 2008, we issued $5.0 billion of fixed rate senior notes, of which $1.25 billion of 4.95% senior notes is due April 2013 (2013 Notes), $2.5 billion of 5.75% senior notes is due April 2018 (2018 Notes), and $1.25 billion of 6.50% senior notes is due April 2038 (2038 Notes). We issued these senior notes to finance the acquisition of BEA and for general corporate purposes. Some or all of the 2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes may be redeemed at any time, subject to payment of a make-whole premium. The 2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes pay interest semi-annually.  

 In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion of floating rate senior notes, of which $1.0 billion is due May 2009 (New 2009 Notes) and $1.0 billion is due May 2010 (2010 Notes). We issued the New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes to fund the redemption of the $1.5 billion of senior floating rate notes that we issued in fiscal 2006 (see below) and for general corporate purposes. The New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes bear interest at a rate of three-month USD LIBOR plus 0.02% and 0.06%, respectively, and interest is payable quarterly. The New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes may not be redeemed prior to their maturity.  

 In January 2006, we issued $5.75 billion of senior notes consisting of $1.5 billion of floating rate senior notes due 2009 (Original 2009 Notes), $2.25 billion of 5.00% senior notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and $2.0 billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2016 (2016 Notes and together with the Original 2009 Notes and the 2011 Notes, Original Senior Notes) to finance the Siebel acquisition and for general corporate purposes. On June 16, 2006, we completed a registered exchange offer of the Original Senior Notes for registered senior notes with substantially identical terms to the Original Senior Notes.  

 In May 2007 we redeemed the Original 2009 Notes for their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our 2011 Notes and 2016 Notes may also be redeemed at any time, subject to payment of a make-whole premium. Interest is payable semi-annually for the 2011 notes and 2016 notes.  

 The effective interest yields of the New 2009 Notes, 2010 Notes, 2011 Notes, 2013 Notes, 2016 Notes, 2018 Notes, and 2038 Notes (collectively, the Senior Notes) at May 31, 2008 were 2.70%, 2.74%, 5.08%, 4.96%, 5.33%, 5.76% and 6.52%, respectively. In September 2007, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the variable interest obligations associated with the New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes  

 53   
 so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.62% and 4.59%, respectively, until maturity.  

 The Senior Notes rank pari passu with any Commercial Paper Notes (defined below) that we may issue and all existing and future senior indebtedness of Oracle Corporation. All existing and future liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation will be effectively senior to the Senior Notes and any Commercial Paper Notes that we may issue.  

 Commercial Paper Program  

 In March 2008, we increased our commercial paper program to $5.0 billion from $3.0 billion (the CP Program). The original dealer agreements entered into in February 2006 with each of Banc of America Securities LLC, JP Morgan Securities Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc. and Merrill Lynch Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement entered into in February 2006 with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, remained in effect and were not changed. Under the CP Program, we may issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes (Commercial Paper Notes) pursuant to a private placement exemption from the registration requirements under federal and state securities laws. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, we issued approximately $1.2 billion and $2.1 billion of Commercial Paper Notes, respectively, of which none and $1.4 billion remained outstanding as of May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of May 31, 2008, we had $5.0 billion of capacity remaining under our CP Program.  

 Revolving Credit Agreements  

 In March 2008, we entered into a $2.0 billion, 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement with Wachovia Bank, National Association, Bank of America, N.A. and certain other lenders (2008 Credit Agreement). The 2008 Credit Agreement was in addition to an existing $3.0 billion, five-year Revolving Credit Agreement with substantially the same parties that we entered into in March 2006 (the 2006 Credit Agreement and, collectively with the 2008 Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreements). The Credit Agreements provide for unsecured revolving credit facilities, which can also be used to backstop any Commercial Paper Notes (see above) that we may issue and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Subject to certain conditions stated in the Credit Agreements, we may borrow, prepay and re-borrow amounts under the facilities at any time during the terms of the Credit Agreements. Interest for the Credit Agreements is based on either (a) a LIBOR-based formula or (b) a formula based on Wachovia’s prime rate or on the federal funds effective rate. Any amounts drawn pursuant to the 2008 Credit Agreement are due on March 17, 2009 (we may, upon the agreement of the lenders, extend the facility by up to two times in succession). Any amounts drawn pursuant to the 2006 Credit Agreement are due on March 14, 2011. No amounts were outstanding pursuant to the Credit Agreements as of May 31, 2008 and 2007. A total of $5.0 billion remained available pursuant to the Credit Agreements at May 31, 2008.  

 The Credit Agreements contain certain customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including the requirement that our total net debt to total capitalization ratio not exceed 45%. If any of the events of default occur and are not cured within applicable grace periods or waived, any unpaid amounts under the Credit Agreements may be declared immediately due and payable and the Credit Agreements may be terminated. We were in compliance with the Credit Agreements’ covenants as of May 31, 2008.  

 Selected Quarterly Financial Data  

 Quarterly revenues and expenses have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including sales compensation plans. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in our first fiscal quarter because of the reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. These seasonal factors are common in the software industry. These factors have caused a decrease in our first quarter revenues as compared to revenues in the immediately preceding fourth quarter, which historically has been our highest revenue quarter. We expect this trend to continue into the first quarter of fiscal 2009.  

 The following tables set forth selected unaudited quarterly information for our last eight fiscal quarters. We believe that all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated below to present fairly the results of such periods when read in conjunction with the consolidated  

 54   
 financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The sum of the quarterly financial information may vary from the annual data due to rounding.  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Stock Options  

 Our stock option program is a key component of the compensation package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that options dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number of options granted while providing competitive compensation packages. Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential dilution since June 1, 2005 has been a weighted average annualized rate of 1.5% per year. The potential dilution percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options granted and assumed, net of options forfeited by employees leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all options are exercised. Some of these options, which have 10-year exercise periods, have exercise prices substantially higher than the current market price of our common stock. At May 31, 2008, 11% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. Over the last 10 years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of our stock option program; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for acquisitions, to repay indebtedness or for other purposes. At May 31, 2008, the maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised option awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of whether vested or unvested and including options where the strike price is higher than the current market price, was 7.3%.  

 The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and approves the organization-wide stock option grants to selected employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares. A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer committee, approves individual  

 55   
 stock option grants up to 100,000 shares to non-executive officers and employees. Stock option activity from June 1, 2005 through May 31, 2008 is summarized as follows (shares in millions):  

  [DATA_TABLE_REMOVED] 

 Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization-wide option grants to certain key employees. These annual option grants are made during the ten business day period following the second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth quarter earnings report.  

 Recent Accounting Pronouncements  

 For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   

 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk